Hundreds of squatters who have constructed about 400 structures on land belonging to the government in Shonda, Likoni, will soon be evicted. Government officials say the 50 acres of occupied land have been earmarked for a university. “The contractor has complained that they could not access the site because people have built houses on the property,” said the Likoni deputy county commissioner Francis Kazungu. “That is why the county commissioner visited the site early this week so he could assess the situation himself.” On Monday, Mombasa county commissioner Gilbert Kitiyo toured the area accompanied by county police commander Augustine Nthumbi. They warned residents the land will be repossessed. The structures built on the land include permanent and semi-permanent buildings with some already completed while others are in various stages of construction. The Likoni sub-county administrator said as soon as the contractor is given a go ahead to start works the squatters will be forced out. “People need to be ready to be evicted anytime soon,” Kazungu said. Despite previous meetings where the settlers were informed on the status of their occupation and advised to move out, little has changed so far. The settlers are worried of incurring losses as it has been made clear that there will be no compensation since the government considers them to be squatters who acquired plots illegally. Ahmed Ramadhan told the Star although he has no valid ownership documents, he had bought his quarter acre plot from people who claimed the land was theirs. “I bought this plot for Shs400,000 and we signed a sale agreement deal. I was shocked when I started hearing that this is supposed to be government land. I don’t know what I will do,” he said. The land in question neighbours the over 900 acres that used to belong to Evanson Waitiki before it was bought by the government in a compromise settlement to let thousands of squatters that had invaded it over the years to live there. Before the matter was settled, the Waitiki farm had been the subject of political tension for many years with successive politicians in Mombasa coming to the defense of the squatters on the land, even mobilizing residents to defy court orders for their eviction. However squatters in the 50-acre Shonda land where the government wants to put up a university would probably not attract the support of local politicians. In a previous community meeting over the matter, Likoni MP Mishi Mboko had asked the occupants to comply with the government directives and move out. The likoni DCC told the Star that the settlers were victims of unscrupulous people who conned them by selling them land they knew to be government property. On Monday, the county commissioner said Sh1.2 billion had already been set aside for construction of a university. Mombasa county is also understood to be planning construction of a maritime college that will complement the Bandari Maritime Academy on Mombasa island. The county has also built a hospital in the area, whose works are in the final stages.