 Life Frontier School in Madogo maintained its top position in Tana River county after recording a mean score of 327 marks in this year's KCPE exam results. The school had seven candidates with over 400 marks, including the county's best student Winnie Gloria who recorded 423 marks. Headteacher Eunice Muruiki said it was not a surprise that the school emerged tops. She said they have topped the county more than 10 times since 2002 when their pioneer candidates sat the exam. “Our secret has always been hard work, including completing the syllabus early enough, discipline and staying focused on what we do,” Muriuki said Gloria attributed her success to her mother's guidance and focus, saying the woman singlehandedly saw her through her education despite their a poor background. “I want to sincerely thank my mother for all the struggles she put in to ensure that I completed my primary education. She is surely my hero today,” Gloria told reporters at the school compound on Tuesday. She added, “I want to extend the same gratitude to my teachers and fellow students who encouraged me throughout my studies having known my background. I could not have achieved this without them." The 13-year-old girl said she wants to join Alliance Girls and later pursue medicine at the university. “I thank God that he has answered my prayers and the journey to fulfilling my dreams has just started.” Her mother Mildred Akinyi said she was happy for her daughter. “I knew she was performing well in her academics but I didn't expect she would not only top her class but the whole county. I will continue doing what I can to ensure that she gets education,” the mother of three said. Akinyi sells groceries at Madogo trading center. Namkuu Bakari,14, scored 400 marks and wants to join Chogoria Girls. “I come from a community that is yet to accept girls require education as a basic need and not marrying them off. I hope my performance will be an eye-opener to those who are still persuaded by retrogressive cultural beliefs," Bakari said.  edited by peter obuya