Meru Senator Mithika Linturi produced a divorce certificate as proof that he was single during a traditional marriage ceremony at Marianne Kitany's home. Linturi is now estranged from Kitany. The two are embroiled in a divorce tussle in which Kitany wants the court to rule that their traditional marriage was valid while Linturi insists he is only married to one wife who is not Kitany. On Tuesday, Kitany’s uncle Andrew Chepkwony told chief magistrate Peter Gesora that when Linturi went to their Nandi home, they pulled him aside and interrogated him about his relationship with Kitany and his marital status. The lawmaker told them he was divorced and wanted to marry Kitany, he said. “We asked him if he had any evidence to show he was divorced and he went to his car and brought a document showing us that he was indeed divorced. He told us it was a divorce certificate,” Chepkwony said. He said they looked at it and returned it to Linturi. Chepkwony said they had also interrogated Kitany before Linturi arrived on her relationship with him. They asked her if she was sure about marrying Linturi and she answered in the affirmative. Chepkwony also asked how long they had known each other and Kitany assured them that they were happy and had been staying together. The court heard that one of the things the uncle wanted to know was how they would manage their assets given that Kitany had hers and Linturi his. "Marianne told us they had already discussed those issues and had agreed how they would work it out. We were satisfied with the answers,” the uncle said. Linturi said they had known each other for a while and known each other better at Sopa Lodge, the court heard. They then began negotiations for dowry and other rites that are performed at a traditional wedding. Chepkwony led the negotiations and told the court they never recorded any minutes because of the trust they had in one another. "We called Marianne and asked her if she wanted to marry him and she agreed and we asked her to pinpoint her husband which she did," he added. The senator then paid a Sh100,000 dowry in place of cows and Chepkwony received the money. Thereafter, mursik, traditionally prepared Kalenjin milk, was brought as a symbol that they had entered into an agreement to give their daughter away. Chepkwony said they got out of the house and proceeded into a tent. The people who accompanied Linturi brought a bunch of miraa to seal the marriage in line with their Meru customs. They handed it over to Linturi who gave it to Kitany to eat before giving its stalks to everyone at the function to eat. (Edited by F'Orieny)