The Thirdway Alliance Party is set to come up with a new constitutional amendment initiative after counties rejected the Punguza Mizigo Bill last month. Thirdway Alliance secretary-general Fredrick Okango told the Star that the initiative will be launched in the first week of December. Okango confirmed that the party’s National Executive Council met this week and deliberated on the next move. Okango said the new initiative will be named Punguma Mizigo Kenya. The Punguza Mizigo initiative spearheaded by lawyer Ekuru Aukot flopped after President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition Chief Raila Odinga rallied their troops to reject it. Earlier, the party tweeted that it is soon launching the next phase of their new constitutional amendment initiative. “We are determined to save our country from the brink of collapse. Kenyans have been sending us proposals and today our NEC is meeting to review. Be ready for Punguza Mizigo Kenya,” they said Okango said they have been receiving proposals from the public and reports from all the 47 counties on “the supposed reason why 45 counties rejected the Punguza Mizigo Bill and why Turkana and Uasin Gishu approved”. “We will factor in what the public wants when we come up with a final document. We are harmonising proposals to form a general suggestion on the constitutional amendment,” he added. Ironically, when the initiative collapsed, Aukot claimed that MCA’s across the country rejected the bill on flimsy grounds without reading it. Punguza Mizigo Bill was only passed in Uasin Gishu and Turkana counties. The Bill needed to be endorsed in at least 24 of the 47 counties to head to Parliament. However, Okango told the Star after harmonising the proposals, it will formulate a new bill Bill but only after visiting the 47 counties to drum up support and ask Kenyans once more how they want to get involved. “We will soon meet to set the date of the launch which should be early next month,” he reiterated. The Punguza Mizigo Bill wanted to reduce the number of MPs, abolish Woman Representative and Deputy Governor positions. The Bill also wanted to reduce the cost of running Parliament. It further wanted to address over-representation by reducing the number of MPs. The party proposed a seven-year term for the President down from the maximum of two five-year terms. To address gender inequality, it proposed Kenyans elect one man and woman from each of the 47 counties into the National Assembly. It also wanted to abolish nominations to the county assemblies and the Senate. Thirdway Alliance had further proposed that the Senate be made an upper house with veto powers and an increase in county revenue share to 35 per cent from the current 15 per cent. Thirdway Alliance’s push for a constitutional referendum jumped a major hurdle after the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) verified signatures of over 1.2 million registered voters. A similar earlier initiative by the Opposition dubbed Okoa Kenya collapsed after the electoral body said the move had not been supported by at least one million registered voters.