President Uhuru Kenyatta is set to meet leaders drawn from the Mt Kenya region on Friday as he aims to stem a simmering rebellion from his backyard. Uhuru is expected to rally them behind the handshake that has been met with opposition from leaders allied to his deputy William Ruto. The meeting will be held at the Sagana State Lodge in Nyeri County and those invited include governors, senators, MPs MCA's, county commissioners and representatives from various sectors. Several leaders have been lined up to address the meeting. According to the official programme, former Nyeri Senator Mutahi Kagwe will be the master of the ceremony. The meeting will kick off after a prayer from Pastor Peter Munga representing the Kikuyu Council of Elders. Wambui Nyutu will talk on behalf of the youths from the region highlighting the challenges that they are facing in the region. Immediate past Equity Bank Group chair Peter Munga will be the other notable speaker, representing the business community from the region. Polycarp Igathe, who is the Executive Vice President in charge of Vivo Energy's sales across the oil marketing company's operations in Africa will represent the professionals at the meeting. Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu will talk on behalf of Mt Kenya MPs. He is a Jubilee MP allied to the Kieleweke section of the party which is pro-BBI and in support of the Handshake between Uhuru and ODM leader Raila Odinga. Embu Senator Njeru Ndwiga will represent the senators from the region and address the high profile meeting. Nyeri Governor Mutahi Kahiga and his counterpart Anne Waiguru from Kirinyaga will speak on behalf of governors. There will also be a representative talking on behalf of Maendeleo ya Wanawake and the Matatus Association from the region. The event will also be addressed by CSs Joe Mucheru (ICT), James Macharia (Transport), Sicily Kariuki (Health), Margaret Kobia (Public Service) and PSs Karanja Kibicho (Interior) and Kirimi Kaberia (Sports). Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi will also address the meeting before inviting the President.