December is fast approaching, and for those who enjoy a family vacation to mark the end of the year, Dubai is a destination to consider visiting. The family-friendly Emirate is located only six hours away from Kenya on a direct flight and is the most affordable international destination for Kenyans. The city has quickly risen to become a go-to destination for most Kenyans and a place to include in your bucket list. We have highlighted below some of the things that make Dubai a suitable destination for family this season. 1. World-class water parks and resorts Water activities are a great way to bond with the family as they are fun, adventurous and relaxing. Dubai has two large water parks that families can visit and have an adventurous time. Wild Wadi water park is Dubai’s first-ever water park that has thrilling slides, incredible rides and relaxing rivers that all members of the family can enjoy. If your family is more on the adrenaline junkies side, then try Aquaventure Waterpark in Atlantis, the palm which is Dubai’s biggest waterpark for thrill-seeking families. It has several slides, which involve plunging through a tube and into a shark lagoon. There are also relaxing slides for the younger ones and a Dolphin lagoon where both children and adults can swim with the friendly mammals. 2. Dubai Aquarium and Underwater Zoo The aquarium is home to 33,000 fish, sharks and rays. The 10-million litre tank located at the Dubai Mall allows you to walk through a tunnel surrounded by water. You get to watch the small and huge marine life swim around you. If you are not afraid, you can take up the opportunity to feed the stingrays and swim with sharks. 3. Visit the Theme Parks in Dubai IMG World of Adventures is the world’s largest indoor theme park filled with adrenaline-packed activities for families. It has four zones covering everything from superheroes to dinosaurs. Older children will love the action-packed Marvel zone, where they can they can join the likes of Spider-Man, The Hulk, Iron Man, Thor and other Avengers on adventures, whether that be on a dizzying ride or in a state-of-the-art stereoscopic cinema dome. Little ones can find plenty of reasons to smile in the Cartoon Network zone. Older children, adults and adrenaline junkies can enjoy the tallest and fastest rollercoasters in Dubai. Another theme park family can enjoy in Dubai is Legoland Dubai. It’s divided into two, the Legoland theme park, which has over 40 rides made entirely of Legos, and the Legoland waterpark, which has rides that both kids and adults can enjoy. 4. Go skiing and ice skating When the sun gets too hot outside, the Dubai Ice Rink is perfect to keep all family members cool and active. The Olympic-size skating rink is located inside the Dubai mall and is open to skaters of all ages. There are instructors who can help with the children and disco sessions that are terrific for both young ones and adults. For a more adventurous experience, families can have a wonderful time skiing at Ski Dubai, located in the Mall of Emirates. It’s the largest indoor ski resort in the Middle East. Some of the slopes measure 25m high, which is for the thrill-seekers, while the rest of the terrain is fit for everyone, including kids. 5. Museum of illusions A family holiday is meant to be relaxing and memorable, and nothing says memorable like the museum of illusions in Dubai. As they say, trick your eyes and entertain your mind. The museum offers attractions that can be enjoyed by all generations. For those with children below five years, entry is free, and you get to experience things such as family members head on a platter, a room that makes you seem like you are upside down, another that makes you like giant while everyone is small. Sit on the clone table and watch clones of yourself, the anti-gravity room and the various holograms that will be with you as you go through the museum.