Good morning, The tale of a stowaway whose frozen body fell from a KQ airliner into a London garden has turned into a troubling mystery after multiple figures and agencies issued denials and contradictory statements. First, the parents recognise them, then they don't and say he's in Industrial Area Prison for alleged defilement. Except he's not. Here are the other stories making headlines in the Star this morning. Ida Odinga and her daughter-in-law Lwam Bekele have been granted 14 days to negotiate an out of court settlement over the control of the late Fidel Odinga’s estate. High Court Judge Aggrey Muchelule directed that the matter be mentioned on November 27 to confirm the progress of the negotiations.  The rates of deaths of mothers and infants remain high in Isiolo county even as the Universal Health Coverage pilot ends next month. The county was selected to pilot the UHC programme alongside Kisumu, Nyeri and Machakos counties. The pilot was launched last December by President Uhuru Kenyatta.  The country’s criminal justice system leaves a lot to be desired. In yesterday's edition, we reported how convicts are studying law to save themselves and fellow inmates from the shackles of injustice. On Friday last week, 16 convicts, current and former, graduated with a Bachelor's degree after completing their Bachelor of Law undergraduate course. This is a partnership project of the African Prisons Project with the University of London. The county government has approved the promotion of 2,152 health workers across all cadres at a cost of Sh99 million in the first phase. Acting Health county executive Vesca Kangogo on Tuesday said that Governor Mike Sonko had directed that the promotions and deployment be effected in a week.  Banks are yet to validate their total cost of credit after interest rate cap law was scrapped, putting borrowers in a state of limbo. The cost of credit website by the Kenya Bankers Association was introduced to help borrowers determine rates offered by different lenders to help them chose the most appropriate offerings for their financial needs.