Golfing legend Tiger woods’ niece Cheyenne Woods is among the players expected to feature in the Magical Kenya Ladies Open from December 5-8 at Vipingo. The young  Cheyenne will line up alongside 107 other professionals at the Ladies European Tour 2019 season finale.  A spokesperson for the 29-year-old professional golfer said: “She has been very interested in playing an event in Africa for some time now, and she jumped at the opportunity to travel to Kenya.” Cheyenne is now in her fifth year on the LPGA Tour and has been invited by U.COM to take part in this momentous tournament, the first of its kind in East Africa. She will play against top Ladies European Tour players such as Beth Allen, the only American winner of the Order of Merit as well as Norway’s Marianne Skarpnord, who is currently number one in the rankings for 2019 and front runner Esther Henseleit from Germany. Other notable players coming to Kenya to compete in this 72 hole strokeplay event include Meghan Maclaren from Great Britain, Christine Wolf, ranked number two in the 2019 Order of Merit, India’s golfing star Aditi Ashok and two-time Ladies European Tour winner Nuria Iturrios of Spain. In a statement from Vipingo Ridge, chairman Alastair Cavenagh said: “We look forward to welcoming Cheyenne and all participating players to Kenya and believe their involvement in this tournament will help us fulfil our objective to promote gender equality and tourism through the game of golf. We hope they will enjoy the beauty and challenge of our coastal PGA—accredited course and return home with fond memories of this unique golfing destination.” The Ladies European Tour is headquartered at the Buckinghamshire Golf Club near London and celebrates women’s golf on a global stage. Since its formation in 1978, the Ladies European Tour has crowned more than 250 different winners and 700 championship trophies have been lifted as players from nearly 30 different countries have won on the Tour. Ladies European Tour chair Marta Figueras-Dotti commented: “The announcement of the Magical Kenya Ladies Open is a proud moment for everyone at the Ladies European Tour and we are excited to help Kenya build its reputation as a preferred golf destination for women and girls. “Earlier this year, 12 of our members made a special appearance in Kenya to play in two Pro-Ams at Vipingo Ridge. The enthusiasm generated by the event made us determined to make this tournament a reality. Our grateful thanks to U.COM Event and the Government of Kenya for embracing the women’s game and for welcoming us to Kenya for the first time.” 