Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen on Sunday led a team of Jubilee legislators to condole with the families affected by the landslide in West Pokot over the weekend. Murkomen was accompanied by his Kericho counterpart Aaron Cheruiyot, Belgut MP Nelson Koech and interestingly, part of the team included the Kibra Jubilee candidate McDonald Mariga. Murkomen urged the resident to move to safer areas even as rains continue. Mariga came in second in the November 7 by-election which was won by ODM aspirant Imran Okoth. The death toll in the West Pokot tragedy on Sunday had risen to 43. Through his Twitter account, Murkomen said that what was witnessed in West Pokot was a tragedy of monumental proportion that had never been witnessed in the area before. "We visited among others the home Kaapeel Yaranyang and his wife Josephine. They lost seven children. The eighth child was found alive 300 meters from their home. It’s so painful.19 children died in Tamkal village plus two adults. It was very hard for us to comfort them. Let’s keep them in prayers," the senator added. West Pokot Governor John Lonyangapuo announced that six bodies were recovered on Sunday morning. He said the Kitale-Lodwar highway that had been rendered impassible due to heavy rains that pounded the area on Saturday night had been cleared and that transport was back to normal. President Uhuru Kenyatta on Saturday sent his message of condolence to the families who lost their loved ones. "My thoughts and prayers, and those of our entire nation are with families, friends and relatives of those who lost their beloved in the unfortunate incident. Please accept my heartfelt condolences," he said. "To those who were injured in the calamitous incident and are receiving treatment in different hospitals, I pray for your quick recovery and restoration." Uhuru said. The President further directed the deployment of resources including rescue personnel from the various security and humanitarian agencies from KDF, National Police Service to intervene against the loss of more lives in the affected area.