The much-awaited results of the biometric exercise that kicked off in May to establish the exact number of genuine county employees are finally out. A report released yesterday indicates that City Hall has 11,603 employees officially registered in the new system. Before the exercise, it had 11,988 employees as per the April 2019 payroll. This means some 385 employees were not captured in the system, as because 200 of them retired, 58 are out due to disciplinary cases, 11 resigned and 23 died within the same period. Another 85 are outside the country for training. County secretary Leboo Morintant, while officially receiving the results, said it will help eradicate ghost workers and imposters. "The public can verify our genuine staff via a simple SMS to a code that we will share with them," he said. Members of the public will identify genuine staff by sending the personal number to a short code number 40471 that will inform them of whether the person is a genuine employee. In the event the person is not a county employee, the public will report such a case through telephone number 0725624489 and/or contact the nearest county enforcement officer or the police. Leboo said the results will help the county reduce its wage bill from 59 per cent of its total recurrent budget to at least 50 per cent within the next two years. The move, which seeks to provide more funds for development programmes, has been discussed and adopted by the county executive members. Referring to the 2018-19 Controller of Budget report, Leboo said the county must find a proper and sustainable balance between development budget and funds available for recurrent expenditure. “The wage bill is slowly declining but we are not yet at the required level if we have to provide more funds for development," Leboo said. The city’s wage bill reduced by 7.4 per cent from Sh14.84 billion in 2017-18 to Sh13.74 billion in 2018-19 and Governor Mike Sonko's administration targets a further decline of nine per cent within the next two years. Of the total budget passed, more than 70 per cent goes to salaries (59 per cent), while operations and maintenance consume 41 per cent. This is as per the COB report for 2018-19. The county spends about Sh1.2 billion monthly on salaries and allowances. Some of the measures being proposed by the county include increasing own-source revenue, which currently stands at Sh10.25 billion, to at least Sh15 billion, reviewing employees' productivity levels viz-a-viz their terms of employment and setting new regulations on employment. Leboo said all this has adequately been covered by the Biometric Report recommendations. Employees who retired recently and those recommended for retirement upon acceptance shall be issued with certificates in a special event that will see some promoted. The event is scheduled for December before the Christmas break. Those expected to attend include CSs Joe Mucheru (ICT), Najib Balala (Tourism) and Margaret Kobia (Public Service, Youth and Gender). Previous reports from the CoB indicate that high wage bill makes it difficult for counties to finance development projects. Governor Sonko will be joining President Uhuru Kenyatta in an event that will allow participants to delve into the issue at KICC. The county chief has welcomed the new measures geared towards reducing the wage bill. "We have been battling the ballooning wage bill and ghost workers. Once we reduce the wage bill, we free up funds for development," he said. Sonko seeks to ensure quick transformation where no one will be living in a pathetic condition.