Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko has accused the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission of a political  witch-hunt in the current investigation against him. Sonko who appeared before the EACC headquarters at Integrity Centre yesterday said the anti-graft agency was trying to remove him from office. Addressing the media after spending almost four hours inside the centre, Sonko said the decision by EACC to summon him thrice within three months was malicious. The commission accuses him of having been convicted in 1997 and that he is not fit to be in office. Sonko accepts that back in 1997 he was sentenced but says the matter was cleared by Makadara law courts and the EACC before he contested the Nairobi Senate seat and later governor. "I have never been convicted. My only offense was failing to attend court. I was sentenced in 1997 to four  months and the same sentence was quashed by the High Court by Justice Oguk and I was released. I vied in 2010 and  was cleared to vie in 2013," Sonko said. “I don’t fear accepting that I was in prison because there is no problem with that because Nelson Mandela was in prison. Raila was in prison and many others.” Sonko accused the EACC of wanting to remove him from office because of his stand to fight corruption. Sonko said he had not been convicted in any court of law since election as governor. Embakasi East  Mp Pauli Ogili aka Babu Owino who was at Integrity Centre urged the EACC to stop frustrating the governor as he was elected by city residents to lead them. "Our governor of Nairobi should not be treated like any village servant. He was elected and has been working for the people. If he keeps being called to the EACC, spending hours, service delivery is not moving well. How do you want him to work?" he said. Owino said EACC should be an independent office and should not be misused. Earlier in the day, anti-riot police teargassed hundreds of Sonko's supporters who were marching towards the EACC headquarters . Trouble started at the gate when Sonko tried to enter the EACC offices with his car, despite police requesting him to walk ins. Police then lobbed tar gas canisters when a group of youths tried to force their way in, forcing Sonko's team to drive off, only to return and be directed to walk in. Sonko finally made his way into the centre accompanied by county attorney Lydia Kwamboka, county chief of staff Peter Mugo and some CECs. EACC investigators summoned Sonko last week for allegedly lying in his self-declaration form when he sought clearance to contest for governor.