Heavy rains in Northern Kenya and Coast regions have disrupted an immunisation drive recently launched by the government. The Health ministry has been administering the human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine. However, on Thursday, CS Sicily Kariuki said most roads have become impassable in Northern Kenya and at the Coast. The three worst-hit counties are Garissa, Wajir and Mandera. Transport has become a nightmare, with residents and healthcare providers finding it difficult to move in floodwaters. Sections of roads have been swept away. Giving an update on the exercise on the sidelines of ICPD event in Nairobi, the CS said 280,000 girls have been vaccinated within the first month of the initiative, which was launched on October 18 in Mombasa county. It targets 800,000 10-year-old girls. The jab is administered in two doses, two months apart. Those vaccinated will be issued with cards for followup. Ministry head of vaccines and immunisation Collins Tabu said the 'ceremonial advocacy launch' was carried out in all counties but Garissa, Lamu, Laikipia, Mandera and Turkana. “That doesn’t mean vaccination in the five counties is not taking place. They have rolled it out and are vaccinating, only that they have not done the ‘ceremonial public launch’ like the rest,” Tabu told The Star on the phone. CS Kariuki said, “If we have managed to do 280,000 of the targeted 800,000 ages of 10 within a month, it's commendable because we have the political and county support. There have been disruptions because schools being closed, examinations being held, heavy rains and impassable roads but all of us are on course.” Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance Board chairperson Ngozi Okonjo-Lweala said more than 311,000 women die of cervical cancer globally each year, with 90 per cent of them being in middle-income countries. She spoke during the high-level dialogue on the future of the HPV vaccine programme in Kenya. Twenty-five per cent of these cases are in Africa. That translates into about 72,000 deaths. Three countries with the highest number of deaths are in Africa. They are Zimbabwe, Malawi and Kenya. “It is not about reproductive issues with girls, it is about saving lives, being able to communicate and say this vaccine has to do with preventing death in future, thus we must work together in all our countries as community advocates to send the message,” Ngozi said. She acknowledged that the biggest challenge to the HPV vaccine is the disparity in supply and demand. “The continent's demand for the vaccine could reach 80 million doses and we only have about 35 million available, meaning there is a gap of about 45 million,” she said. Ngozi called on vaccine manufacturers to step up the production to meet the demand to avert a situation in which people are cannot get the vaccine. She said her board is ready to support Kenya and other African countries to deliver the HPV vaccine. (Edited by F'Orieny)