Harambee Stars have been cautioned against underrating their next wounded opponents Togo when they face off on Monday in the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers at Moi Stadium, Kasarani. Stars launched their bid to qualify for the bi-annual tournament set for Cameroon by picking a priceless one-all draw against Egypt on Thursday night in Alexandria. Michael Olunga’s second-half strike cancelled Mohammed Kahraba’s 38th-minute goal in a match dogged by injuries to the Kenyan team who lost the first-choice goalkeeper Patrick Matasi and Ayub Timbe in the first half. While Stars recorded arguably their best possible start, Togo were shocked at home after falling by a solitary goal to minnows Comoros and will be seeking to redeem themselves on Monday. Having coached Harambee Stars before, James Nandwa has warned the team to approach the Claude Le Roy-coached side with caution as they will be out to get their campaign on track. Nandwa, who currently tutors Sony Sugar reckoned that Kenya have the opportunity to book an early ticket to the finals should they beat Togo and win their home matches. “We played well in Egypt which shows we have come of age. We attacked with vigour and looked comfortable despite playing away. We have to take Togo seriously as they will be eyeing redemption after losing at home. It doesn’t mean that they are a weak team maybe they were unlucky in front of the goal. The team should avoid unnecessary back passes,” he said. His sentiments were echoed by another former coach Twahir Muhidin who said the team should build on the Egypt draw and take their chances at home. Muhidin, who serves as Bandari’s technical director said: “If we build on that result, then we will take control of the group. We have to take Togo seriously since another loss will spell doom to their qualification bid. The striking front should make all chances are count.” At the same time, former Stars defender Sammy ‘Pamzo’ Omollo exuded confidence that the team will book a slot in the finals if their performance in Egypt is anything to go by. The Posta Rangers coach counselled his Stars’ counterpart Francis Kimanzi to instil more confidence in the team and maintain the attacking philosophy. “We are as good as qualified. If we can get a draw in Egypt, it shows the technical bench assembled the right players for the job. The only remaining challenge is to beat them here at home and the rest of the visiting teams. The coach has done pretty well and the boys seem to have mastered the art of attacking football,” he added. 