She died by the same sword she tried to use to stab her own daughter in Naivasha. Although documents in court show that Esther Wambui's death was accidental, her widower Gideon Kibunje will serve 14 months in prison for killing her. Kibunje was initially charged with murder, but, after a plea bargain, the charges were reduced to manslaughter. Appearing before Naivasha Judge Richard Mwongo, the 28-year-old admitted killing his wife to protect his daughter. He told the court that around 7 pm on January 14, he got to his home on Site Estate in Gilgil township. Wambui informed him that there were no vegetables and milk for supper. Kibunje went out and bought the items, but as the wife cooked, he noticed she had shaped her hair in a box style. This did not impress him. “I told her the hairstyle was not fit for a married woman and she did not take it positively,” he said. Kibunje said an argument followed and Wambui became agitated and furious. “She opened a suitcase and took my sword and aimed to stab our daughter. So I  intervened by grabbing the child,” he recounted. However, when Kibunje tried to open the door to escape with the child, Wambui stabbed him in the back. In the midst of the ensuing struggle and confusion, Wambui was accidentally stabbed by the accused in the chest. They had two children aged three and one. “I rushed outside and called for help from other tenants in the plot. Neighbours who came to the house found the deceased lying in a pool of blood and already dead,” he said. Police officers visited the crime scene, arrested him and ferried Wambui’s body to Gilgil Subcounty Hospital mortuary for a postmortem. On January 21, 2019, Dr Titus Ngulungu, a pathologist,  concluded that Wambui had succumbed to her chest cavity injuries following sharp trauma. She had bled massively. The widower said the fallout that resulted from the death struck a devastating blow to her family. “My family has since disintegrated and I need to reconstruct my life and family again, particularly the children who had no role in the offence,” he said. A probation report indicates that one child lives with inlaws, while the other is taken care of by a children’s home in Gilgil. While making his ruling, Mwongo sentenced the accused to seven years in prison with effect from the date of incarceration. The court, however, directed that he will serve 14 months behind bars and two years on probation and only serve the full seven years if he defaults or is charged with another offence. The accused told the court he had dropped out of school in Standard 6 and was then employed as a security guard in several places. He was also employed as a cook at a bed and breakfast. (Edited by F'Orieny)