 President Uhuru Kenyatta on Sunday "profusely" apologised to the Anglican community for not attending a thanksgiving ceremony to which he was invited in March. The President missed the service at Kenol ACK Cathedral as he was receiving foreign delegates. He was represented by Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i, ICT CS Joe Mucheru and their Transport counterpart James Macharia. Matiang'i said the President will visit the church during the commissioning of the Kenol-Sagana-Marua dual carriageway. "We will come for a church service so that the Bishop blesses the road before we launch it," the CS said. Matiang'i told the occasion that he will soon meet with Murang'a leaders to consolidate government projects in the county. He disclosed that several Murang'a leaders have been pushing for the consolidation of government projects. "It is my responsibility to coordinate government projects and I promise to have a full day to have a look at the government activities we have in Murang'a," he said. This was prompted by Governor Mwangi wa Iria's remark that there was a need to put together all government initiatives in the county to avoid disjointed development. The governor said coordinating all projects and having them launched by the President will end negative politics directed at the President in the county. "This will also stop the politicisation of the projects. Failing to have them enumerated is the reason we hear so many complaints against the government," Wa Iria said, noting that their enumeration will stop naysayers dead in their tracks. He said it is a shame that leaders do not complete projects. Matiang'i said the President is passionate about Murang'a and the initiated projects will be completed. He cited Kigumo market as an example of a project for which the government was under immense pressure to implement. “The President has made it very clear that we have to lay its foundation the next time he comes to Murang’a or I have to get my own country,” he said. Mucheru praised the handshake between the President and opposition leader Raila Odinga saying it has enabled the country to make major developmental strides. He said the country was the first in Africa to conduct electronically. “I received a call from a leader of the African Union saying that many countries are impressed with the system that has enabled us to conduct and get results in a very short time. All this would not have been possible without the handshake,” he said. Macharia lauded the church for its contributions to development.  