Kuppet on Tuesday lashed out at Knut secretary general Wilson Sossion for being "the face of deception". The Kenya Union of Post Primary Education Teachers accused Sossion of orchestrating its downfall. The remarks followed a prolonged standoff between the Teachers Service Commission and the Kenya National Union of Teachers on members' welfare and one in which Kuppet has been accused of siding with the employer to frustrate Knut. Kuppet broke the ice on the strained relationship between the TSC and Knut, saying it is not in any fight with the rival union. Secretary general Akello Misori criticised Knut for undermining them. He said the Sossion-led union has refused to wake up to the reality that Kuppet is an independent union. He said the rival union is suffering from poor leadership under Sossion and rejected claims that it has a hand in the problems bedevilling it, adding that the problems affect the larger education sector. "A weak Knut is bad for the education sector and the trade unionism. Kuppet is not in competition with Knut even over membership because most of the members of Knut are not qualified to be our members," Misori said. He traced Knut troubles to 2016 shortly after the signing of the 2017-21 collective bargaining agreement with the TSC. Kuppet boasts of engineering and negotiating the Sh54 billion agreement and accuses Knut of taking all credit by going behind their back to sign it. Misori added that Knut signed the agreement without a proper understanding of its content, only to contest it later. The clauses contested by Knut include the introduction of an appraisal system to gauge teachers' class performance and output. It was named TPAD. Instead, the union wants a comeback of the old age schemes of service that were used prior to 2017. Knut is also against how the TSC is effecting promotions, transfers and training. Misori, however, defended the clauses. "We had agreed with the employer that should Knut come back and try to destroy the CBA, we would take them to court," he said. The union is currently enjoying a union membership of about 120,000 and continues to lure more from Knut, whose members in high schools and colleges continue to walk out.