Nigerian billionaire Aliko Dangote's company, Dangote Industries Ltd (DIL), has appointed the business mogul's daughter Halima, as the group executive director of commercial operations. Dangote is classified as Africa's richest individual by Forbes, with a net worth estimated at Sh1 trillion. DIL is one of Africa's largest and most diversified business conglomerates. According to a release by the company, Halima Aliko Dangote is returning to the Group after serving on secondment in several capacities across two of its Business Units over the last five years. She is also a Trustee of the Aliko Dangote Foundation, the philanthropic arm of the conglomerate. In her most recent role, Halima served as Executive Director of Dangote Flour Mills. A statement by the company on Monday said, "She led the turnaround of the business from loss in turnover to a profitable status; a feat derived from consistent high performance over time." Previously, she served as Executive Director of NASCON, a manufacturer of salt, seasonings and related consumer products, which are enjoying huge patronage among consumers. She continues to serve as a Non-Executive Director of NASCON. Halima is the president of the Board of The Africa Center in New York, a uniquely focused centre providing a forward-looking gateway for engagement with Africa, while encompassing policy, business and culture. She is a Board member of Endeavour Nigeria, and is also a member of the Women Corporate Directors (WCD). She has over 12 years of professional experience and has held several executive management roles. In her new role, Halima will be responsible for leading the development and implementation of the Dangote Group's customer strategy to drive customer growth, improve customer relationship management, enhance customer experience and increase long term customer value, according to the release. Halima holds a Bachelor's degree in Marketing from the American Intercontinental University, London, United Kingdom and a Master's degree in Business Administration from Webster Business School, United Kingdom.