The National Police Service Commission has named three of the four officers interdicted for brutalising JKUAT protesters. Corporal George Wathania and constables Jonathan Kibet and Boniface Muthama were captured on camera beating up one of the students who were protesting insecurity in the area. NPSC chairperson Eliud Kinuthia, however, said the fourth officer was yet to be identified. “The clip is not very clear,” Kinuthia said on Wednesday. The officers were placed on an identification parade where the three were pointed out, he said. In the footage, three officers were captured clobbering a student in a red t-shirt while one of them tried to pull him away. The chairperson, while commending police Inspector General and Independent Police Oversight Authority for swift action, assured members of the public that action will be taken against the officers after investigations are complete. “There are procedures for disciplining police officers accused of violating human rights or committing any other offence in the line of duty. Interdiction is the first step where the officers suspended on half salary while investigations are conducted,” he said. “Once the investigations are concluded, and proper facts are given to us, necessary action will be taken. It could be demotion, dismissal or removal from service depending on the recommendations by the IG." Kinuthia wished the victims of the brutality quick recovery and urged the public holding demonstrations to maintain peace and avoid provoking others. “Police were called because of a breach of peace during the demos. It is their duty o to ensure everyone is safe. Therefore, protesters acting with consideration for others is very important,” he said. He said five police officers were injured during the protest, among them the Thika OCS who was in charge of the operation. Two police vehicles were also damaged. The four officers were interdicted after interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i ordered their arrest within 24 hours. IG Hillary Mutyambai interdicted the officers, describing their conduct on Monday as despicable. Mutyambai further revealed that an investigation of the Internal Affairs Unit and Ipoa will lead to recommendations of disciplinary actions to be taken against the officers. Students of Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology took to the streets on Monday to protest what they termed as rising insecurity in Juja main campus. The university’s Senate thereafter ordered the closure of the institution indefinitely as learners were directed to go home. Edited by R.Wamochie