A Women's Sacco in Lamu county has launched a boda boda project for its 3,000 members to help empower them economically and improve their living standards. The Lamu women's Sacco, an initiative of the Woman Rep Captain Ruweidda Obbo, has already dispatched 60 brand new motorcycles to members in Lamu East and Lamu West. Beneficiaries in the SACCO will be expected to pay Sh4,000 per month across 18 months to enable the funds to revolve around all its members. Speaking during the official handing over of 30 motorcycles at Kihongwe Matanya in Mpeketoni, Obbo who is the patron of Sacco, said the idea of the women's Sacco was aimed at empowering economically and transform their livelihoods. "Its revolving fund loans are given to members. The money paid also benefits others. Out of Sh10.7 million, we bought 60 bodabodas. 30 for members in Lamu East and the rest in Lamu West. The remaining funds are in a fixed deposit account,'' she said. Obbo said she has begun a process of incorporating Bandari Sacco to get more financial support for the members. The women Rep said two more Boda Bodas were donated by Interior PS Karanja Kibicho which she gave them to one of their physically challenged person and the other to a Catholic church. Zamzam Nassir, the Sacco manager,  said they decided not to give cash handouts but initiate projects that could help them generate income and service their loans. ''We did research and found that giving cash as loans would not bring development for the women. The committee sat down and discussed the kind of projects which could help transform the livelihoods of the Sacco members,'' she said. Apart from the bodaboda projects, Nassir said they also plan to come up with others as the revolving funds are aimed at ensuring everyone gets funding. Nassir said they engaged financial institutions which issue loans such as the Uwezo Fund and Women Enterprise Fund. The Car and General Motors company ensured all motorcycles are fueled, have an insurance cover as well as two helmets and reflectors. Officials of the company said the motorcycles will twice be serviced free of charge after every 500 kilometres. Hindu Salim, one of the beneficiaries, said they were happy with the initiative which will transform their livelihoods. She said had it not been for cultural issues that do not allow women to ride Boda Bodas, she would have done the business herself. Salim, however, said she had already identified youth who will be doing the boda boda business.