President Uhuru Kenyatta on Friday said he will make the BBI report public once he receives it and Kenyans can make a decision on it. Speaking to Mt Kenya region leaders during a Gema meeting at Sagana, Uhuru said Kenyans will decide on what they want after going through the report. "If we disagree, we should do it honourably with all opinions aired," he said. Uhuru, however, hyped support for BBI by praising the fruits of the handshake. He said there can never be any development without peace. "Why do you want to bury me when I am alive? I will take you back on the journey we have walked together. In 2007, you recall what we went through. The country almost went up in flames," He said. "I'm sure even here there are people with sad memories because of the chaos, especially our people in the Rift Valley. I remind you my personal efforts on forgiveness and forging a way forward," He added. Uhuru urged Mt Kenya leaders to focus on their work instead of succession politics. "We have mentioned miraa, pyrethrum, coffee, tea, cotton, milk, and those are our problems. I wonder when shall we help our people? They only talk about 2022 and abuse each other." The Building Bridges Initiative task force three weeks ago completed filing its report after collecting views from Kenyans across the country. The task force held its last formal sitting at the task force secretariat where they finalised the report and communicated to the President's office. "The joint secretaries have officially communicated to the office of the President that the Building Bridges Initiative report is ready for handing over to the President," part of joint task force statement signed by BBI joint secretaries Paul Mwangi and Martin Kimani read. The task force said that they have already received word that the handover will be scheduled at the first available opportunity. According to the task force, the views to be presented to the President takes into account the views of Kenyans from the 47 counties including testimonies and petitions from the professional bodies. The views were also collected from the constitutional commissions, civil society organisations, religious leaders and associations, business associations and business leaders. "Elected leaders including governors, deputy governors, Senators, MPs and MCAs were also given the opportunity to give their views," the statement read.