Good morning, The electoral agency could be forced to scrap up to 40 constituencies for falling below the constitutional population threshold. The 2019 census results showed that the 40 electoral units have less than 114,889 people which, according to a report made by Andrew Ligale-chaired  Interim Independent Boundaries Review Commission, should be scrapped. In 2009, some 27 constituencies were allowed to exist despite not meeting their various population quotas of 93,196.6 and 79,882.8. Here are the other stories making headlines in the Star this morning. The law capping commercial bank interests at four per cent above Central Bank rate has been scrapped, paving way for the return of free - float charges by lenders. The retention of the law introduced in September 2016 was defeated due to a lack of enough members to vote against President Uhuru's memorandum. What is in a name? A lot. Names are often windows to the past that tell a lot about a person, place or event. Place names, in particular, are an important part of the intangible cultural heritage of a people. That is why Okoa Mombasa Coalition says the name Mama Ngina Waterfront Park does not tell the story of the park, the place or the people. It's even considered offensive, they said. All employees of troubled Mumias Sugar Company have been dismissed as the effects of receivership begin to sink. In a notice signed by receiver manager PVR Rao, the contracts of all employees were terminated effective September 20 when the miller was placed under receivership by the Kenya Commercial Bank. “Any payment to the affected employees shall be dealt with in accordance with provisions of the law. Accordingly, the receiver shall engage the services of any employee on a temporary basis until the time when the company’s operations are revived,” the notice read. In Korogocho, in sight of Dandora dump, is a long stretch of grass and trees. It takes your breath away. It’s not what you expect. But it’s the Peoples Park, and it was made by former gangsters. At least that is what they say they were. “This place has a dark history. But we are out of crime now and none of us are willing to go back,” says Fredrick Okinda, the leader of Komb Green Solutions, the group who created the park. Barely a week after the appointment of Bernard Ngugi as the managing director and CEO of Kenya Power, fresh details on the recruitment process have emerged depicting favoritism and corruption. The board is now on the spot over the hurriedly done appointment of the former head of procurement who served under the former CEO Ben Chumo and immediate former managing director Ken Tarus, both of whom have been arraigned in court over graft.