A case challenging academic papers of Garissa Governor Ali Korane will proceed on December 10. Already, Justice James Makau has allowed Garissa Deputy Governor Abdi Dagane Muhumed to enjoin as interested party in a case challenging the academic papers of his boss, saying his application as interested party has merit. After allowing the deputy governor's request, the judge directed him through his lawyer P. Saidi to file his papers and serve the other parties in the case within 21 days, upon which they will have seven days to respond to the same and return back to court on December 10 for full hearing of the case. Muhumed had earlier filed application under certificate of urgency, claiming that being the deputy governor, he will be affected by the outcome of the petition. This is after Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission opposed his application saying it is only Governor  Korane documents being challenged in court. The commission, through lawyer Paul Nyamondi, while opposing his application, told the court that it is the governor's academic papers being challenged and not his deputy governor's academic qualification. “It is imperative and in interests of justice that the court should hear and determine this application before any other proceedings are undertaken in this petition,” argued Dagane. In his supporting affidavit, he claimed that he has a legal interest in the suit due to the nature of his appointment and his position as the deputy governor and will be affected by any negative outcome of the suit. Dagane added that he was declared the deputy governor by IEBC when Korane was declared governor. Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission commenced investigations against embattled Garissa Governor Ali Korane over his academic qualifications. This follows a petition filed by Aden Muktar Bare, whose son Idriss was shot as he pursued the matter. Bare filed a petition before the High Court seeking to declare the Garissa governor seat vacant arguing that Korane presented fake academic papers to be cleared for the gubernatorial race, thereby breaching the Constitution. In a sworn affidavit, EACC investigator Kevin Langat said that preliminary investigations shows that Korane, while seeking clearance of the commission to vie for the position of governor of Garissa county government in 2012  and 2017, he filed a self- declaration form indicating that he possesses a master’s degree from the University of Nairobi. The officer further said Korane later submitted to IEBC a copy of self-declaration form which he had presented to the EACC in 2017. Langat said that preliminary investigations reveals that the said self- declaration form presented to IEBC shows that he possesses a master’s Degree and that highest qualification he holds is a Bachelor of Arts in International Studies and Diplomacy from Washington International University. “A close analysis to some pages in the self-declaration from presented to IEBC reveals that the information was altered to remove MBA degree and replace it with Bachelor of Arts in International Studies and Diplomacy from Washington International University. "The commission is the process of investigating the same,” says the investigator.