Good morning, President Uhuru Kenyatta is under fire over speculation that the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) report would lead to the reintroduction of the position of Prime Minister. Uhuru and ODM leader Raila Odinga receive the much-awaited report on Tuesday amid assertions by a section of political leaders that there could be a plot to extend Uhuru’s stay in power. Here are the other stories making headlines in the Star this morning. Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) has dumped Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka in favor of Machakos governor Alfred Mutua as new political alliances form ahead of 2022. “ODM will no longer work with Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka ahead of 2022 general election. We have forged a new political union with Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua's Maendeleo Chap Chap party,” said party secretary general, Edwin Sifuna on Saturday. The Kibera law courts in the middle of the Kibera slums is a dangerous place to work. Magistrates' cars have been blocked, no one goes out to lunch for fear of violence. At the centre of one of Africa's largest informal settlements, the court is surrounded by shanties and people in the high-crime area who have no love for the law. Pumwani Maternity Hospital will from Wednesday start offering outpatient services for the first time in nearly a century. The outpatient unit has already been installed and equipment fitted at a cost of Sh10 million. Drugs worth Sh2 million have also been purchased.  The Monetary Policy Committee is likely to remove the Central Bank Rate (CBR) when it meets today, weeks after the interest cap law on commercial banks loans was scrapped. The CBR rate, which is currently at nine per cent, has been guiding interest on commercial loans, which were limited at four per cent above the apex bank’s rate. It may sound like a dream, but Kenyan farmers may soon find it easy to deal with age-old enemies: the weather and pests. The Kenya Space Agency, though just slightly over a year old, is positioning itself to transform agriculture across the country and boost the rise of the “smart farm”. The fourth of its kind to be established in Africa, the agency is determined to help farmers increase their yields and in the course make Kenya food-secure.