Balambala MP Omar Shurie has said the 2019 census results for his constituency are not only fake and fraudulent but tainted with illegalities. The results released on Monday showed that Balambala subcounty has the least population of 32,257, followed by Lagdera with 50,315 while Dadaab has the highest at 185,252 followed by Garissa at 163,914. “The census result for Balambala constituency that was released  is not only fake but also reeks of impunity and flagrant abuse of power and authority. It does not reflect the actual data/figures as captured and posted by the enumerators in August 2019,” he said in Sankuri ward. He added: “These figures represent more than 65 per cent decrease in population from the 2009 census, which is not only unrealistic but equally beats basic logic. Its within public knowledge that KNBS previously bungled the mapping exercise leading to the allocation of fewer enumeration areas for Balambala constituency. “Their unrealistic administrative action forced us to seek legal redress from the courts of law. The High Court then directed KNBS to post additional enumerators to Balambala, an order that was hurriedly albeit partially complied with.” He was referring to a court order on August 29 directing the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics to deploy 60 additional enumerators to Balambala. “We therefore demand that KNBS provides the actual data as captured by the enumerators.We will seek justice from the courts in the shortest time possible,” Shurie said without stating when he intends to move to court. Leader of majority in Garissa county assembly Mohamed Gabow alleged that the results was manipulated to favour certain parts of the country. He accused unnamed political leaders from other regions who have been vocal against development initiatives issues in northeastern. “We totally don’t agree with this result. It has greatly been manipulate but some sections have been outspoken on issues including resource allocation in the region,” he said yesterday. Garissa, Mandera and Wajir counties have a combined population of 2,490,073 compared to 2.3 million people in the 2009 census. Then Planning Minister Wycliffe Oparanya nullified the 2009 census results of the three counties, citing inconsistencies in the birth and death rates.