There is no cause for alarm at Kariobangi Sharks even as the team grapples with a poor start to the 2019/20 Kenyan Premier League season, club chairman Robert Maoga has said. Sharks find themselves in unfamiliar territory on the log after just one win in eight matches and despite the slow start, club management is not piling any pressure on the technical bench. The former Shield Cup holders have seven points out of a possible 24 to sit 15th, a run which has raised concerns over their mettle to muscle with the title. Sharks have found the back of the net five times in eight matches. “We admit that, as a club, we have not had a good run of results but that does not worry us. A win in eight rounds is not a fair return but nothing is lost as we have the capacity to turn things around" said Maoga. "We have been playing well but there is a small problem in the final third as our strikers are yet to gain their scoring momentum. We have no intentions of ringing changes in our technical bench as we have full faith in coach William Muluya and the rest.” Maoga, who sits in the KPL Executive Committee, hinted of signing a proven striker in the forthcoming transfer window. In addition, the club is likely to part ways with their budding forward Sydney Simale next month after impressing Finnish side HIFK Fotboll AB. Apart from the blunt striking force, Maoga also blames their dismal start to sub-standard officiating and called on the Football Kenya Federation to consider launching refereeing courses for linesmen. He claimed that the federation had put emphasis in training centre referees through the Fifa funds, ignoring their assistants. “We have been on the receiving end of poor officiating in two or three matches which I squarely blame on the linesmen," he said. "Our centre referees seem to have stepped up but we have a challenge with the rest, who are yet to undergo modern training. I urge the federation to look into the concern and enrol the flaggers in necessary training courses.”