We are not dying today or tomorrow. What we need to do is accept our status, live healthily and follow good nutrition. These are the words of Josephine Wanjiru who has been living with HIV since 1990. She represents several women in Kenya who have accepted that HIV is not a death sentence. All she calls for is a lot of awareness, especially among the youth at the community level saying most people are getting infected due to lack of knowledge. It is of great concern by experts that despite Kenya making progress in the fight against HIV/Aids, women remain the most affected group. The latest World Aids Day report released on Tuesday showed that of the 1.4 million adults living with HIV in the country, 910,000 (65 per cent) are women. The report was released ahead of World Aids Day celebrated every December 1. New HIV infections among young women aged 15 to 24 were more than double those among young men. The statistics show that there were 11,000 new infections among young women, compared to 5,000 among young men. UNAIDS Executive Director Winnie Byanyima says the situation is compounded by retrogressive traditions, cultures and laws that justify violence against women. “Aids is the highest killer in women with 6,000 women dying every week globally. One in three women has experienced one form of violence in their lifetime, which means women in our continent do not enjoy the same safety as boys,” Byanyima said. She cited another contributing factor to social inequality. "We have to address inequality and injustices. The disease is hurting people living in poverty. It can’t be right that there are those who can get treatment and live healthy while others can’t have access to treatment and food.” Byanyima said as a result, too many people are dying due to lack of access to drugs, some of which are priced too high. She termed it as unjust for young girls not to have access to sexual and reproductive rights, adding that they should be allowed access to simple health services. "All girls should be kept in school and given comprehensive sexuality education if we want these numbers to go down." The report, however, notes that HIV treatment was higher among women than men, with 75 per cent of adult women living with HIV on treatment, compared to men's 59 per cent. "The government should work on preventive measures because the state of joblessness among educated youth has pushed them into drugs and prostitution," a Thika youth Stanley Njuguna said. Edited by R.Wamochie