Once again, bragging rights will be at stake when Kenyan football arch-rivals Gor Mahia and AFC Leopards clash tomorrow  in the 'Mashemeji derby' at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani Ahead of the much-anticipated Kenya Premier League highlight this weekend, the two teams are separated by a point on the log hence pundits are predicting a closely contested match. The two teams have locked horns twice this year with Gor carrying the day under the then Cypriot coach Hassan Oktay who left at the end of the last season. Tomorrow, it will be Steven Polack's first derby in charge and the Briton has exuded the confidence of picking from where his predecessor left despite warming up for the match with 1-0 loss to Mathare United. Polack tested his first league defeat last Wednesday against Mathare United in what he attributed to lack of training and the absence of his first-choice full-backs. However, the loss served as the turning point as the club trained on Thursday and yesterday ahead of the big match. The duo of Wellington Ochieng and Geoffrey Ochieng missed the defeat to Mathare but the latter was yesterday confirmed fit for the match. "I understand the significance of local derbies and looking at history, we have to be at our best. It's not a secret we have to bounce back to our winning ways having trained on Thursday and yesterday. Geoffrey is back which is a boost for us," said Gor coach Steven Polack. While Polack will be seeking to redeem the club from the midweek defeat, his Leopards counterpart Andre Mbungo will be eyeing his first win having lost the last two encounters. Leopards assistant coach Anthony Kimani and goalkeeper trainer Lawrence Webo witnessed Gor defeat in Machakos and will be seeking to exploit the situation. Gor, who have two matches in hand, have amassed 15 points—one ahead of Ingwe who played Ulinzi Stars to a barren draw in their last match. Meanwhile, Chemelil Sugar will be out to record their first win of the season when they play Posta Rangers today at the Narok Stadium. KCB will tackle former champions Tusker at Afraha Stadium while Kisumu All-Stars welcome Kariobangi Sharks at their backyard in Kisumu, looking for their maiden top-flight win Tomorrow, Sony Sugar host an unbeaten  Mathare at Awendo and so are Kakamega Homeboyz who are lined up against an unbeaten Western Stima at Bukhungu Stadium. Ulinzi Stars play a redemption-seeking Bandari at Afraha as Zoo Kericho host Nzoia Sugar at the Kericho Green Stadium.