The Sagana meeting last Friday will further fracture an already ailing Jubilee Party. The rift between Tangatanga and Kieleweke factions of the party will widen as the antagonistic forces scout for allies and trade barbs. Night meetings will intensify as Central Kenya mulls over President Uhuru Kenyatta riot acts. However, it will be difficult for Tangatanga politicians from the region to just pack and leave their camp. They have the heaviest task of choosing between the President and his overly ambitious DP but when push comes to shove, they will drop Ruto like a hot brick and follow Uhuru without a second thought. There is no doubt the top leadership of the ruling party is operating at crosshairs. Jubilee itself is spread-eagled on a crossroad waiting for the day its death and embalmment will be done. As that day slowly draws near, ODM leader Raila Odinga will not lose his position as Tangatanga's certified punching bag. But he will be receiving kicks and blows meant for President Uhuru, the Tangatanga brigade cannot dare confront when the lights are on. Retrospectively, the Sagana meeting has put Ruto’s allies in an awkward position: What with being told to back BBI 100 per cent? Tangatanga is a euphemism for anti-BBI, anti-handshake and anti-Big Four agenda. For its soldiers to be told to make an about-turn and love BBI instantly,is not a cup of coffee. The politicians have never hidden their disdain for BBI, which is an offspring of the handshake. Some say Ruto supports BBI with his lips not his heart. His camp has never found an iota of good in it or the handshake and even the Big Four agenda. Surprisingly after the Sagana meeting, the DP was quoted praising BBI, something he knows clearly that he abhors. One cannot purport to support the President and the BBI during the day but when the sun sets, he meets his foot soldiers to burn the midnight oil in disparaging it. And no one is brave enough in Tangatanga to face the President and blame him for welcoming Raila into his circle of most trusted confidants. Accusing Raila of Jubilee’s troubles is to be a coward.  They should cease this blame game and gather the courage to confidently face Uhuru on the handshake and the handshake report. They claim Jubilee is intact yet they blame Raila for dividing it. Those dividing Jubilee are inside, not from without. Some key Jubilee luminaries openly backed ODM's Imran Okoth in Kibra and the President contradicted his DP by giving a thumbs up to the by-election: It was peaceful. If you read between the lines, Uhuru was thanking Jubilee nominated MP Maina Kamanda and Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru et al for a job well done, yet we are regaled with stories of Jubilee being intact. The Sagana meeting confirmed that BBI is the brainchild of the President and not Raila. This is why Uhuru demands zero rebellion to it from his backyard. Those who will choose to defy his order will be politically stripped to the bare minimum in 2022. The President praised the fruits of the handshake that Tangatanga surprisingly have refused to acknowledge just to spite the March 9, 2018 historical moment. With a charged atmosphere, Tangatanga bandwagon in Central will not immediately dump the DP. They will wait for an opportune time and jump over the fence because they know the consequences of disobeying Muthamaki (the King). Apart from the Sagana meeting, the other event that dented the pro-Ruto camp was Mariga's loss in the Kibra by-election. The fact that Uhuru, the Jubilee Party leader did not attend a single campaign rally in Kibra is a loaded statement. Also, reports that DP is planning to pull the rug under the President’s feet in  to take over Jubilee in the forthcoming grassroots elections will further open the cracks bedeviling “intact” JP. These, and the rebelliousness of some MPs in Central, are the reason Uhuru is asking, “Why do you want to bury me alive?”