Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana says he is ready to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta and steer the country to greater economic and democratic heights. Kibwana, who is serving his second and last term, says he is prepared to take the mantle of the country’s leadership and "save Kenyans from the agony of a bad economy". He Spoke on Tuesday at Kalamba ward while on a tour to inspect and commission development projects by his government. “My experience from Makueni tells me I have what it takes to govern all the other counties combined and inflame development ideologies that have never been witnessed before,” Kibwana said. He said the success behind Makueni was his understanding of the people’s needs and prioritising them. “To spur economic development, a leader should first understand the people’s needs and provide consultation space for others in order to offer the best solutions to the needs." The governor said he had opted to retire after his second term "but has decided to heed the call and pressure from Kenyans who want him to run for President". The presidency is an office that offers a good leader an opportunity to uplift the lives of others, he said, adding that he was ready to quench the development thirst of Kenyans. “How can I decline the people’s call to occupy an office that provides room for me to do what I love?” he asked. Kibwana took a swipe at Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka and his allies who have been criticising his bid. He said the former vice president had little association with him in matters of development since he joined high ranks of the government. Kibwana, who was elected on a Wiper ticket, said Kalonzo’s time was up and time had come for Kambas to front another leader for success. “Some people who have often claimed to be our leaders cannot show a single project associated with them. We have to tell them to give way to others who can have interests of their people at heart." He also claimed that Kalonzo’s stand in the Kibra by-election was a manifestation of his dwindling political prowess and calculations saying the Wiper leader had nothing new to offer Kenyans. Ukambani's Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua has also announced his interest in the presidency. Edited by R.Wamochie