The government has been urged to reduce the number of regulatory agencies in the health sector because they exploit private medical facilities. Outspan Hospital and Outspan Medical College executive director Macharia Kiruhi said the regulatory agencies under the Ministry of Health are too many. Kiruhi said the health sector is over-regulated and there is a multiplicity and duplication of roles. “That is something that we would expect a conversation around and see whether the policies can be changed to have one body with representatives from various professionals,” he said. Kiruhi said this will ensure that the supervision of institutions is done by one board to harmonise fees ad taxes paid. He spoke during the institution’s eighth graduation ceremony in Nyeri. Kiruhi said each regulatory agency demands a lot of money from the private colleges, which increases the financial burden to parents and guardians. Acting director for health Wekesa Masasabi on Saturday said the Kenya Health Professions Oversight Authority was formed after the Health Act 2017 came into force. The agency is supposed to coordinate all the regulatory bodies. Masasabi spoke in Nyeri when he officiated the graduation ceremony at Outspan Medical College. He said the board has an acting CEO who is putting in place a team to take over the inspection and licensing of facilities. “Our dream is to only have one license and that board will coordinate all the inspections with various cadres, they pay one fee, one certificate for ease of business,” he said. He said that there have been complaints about the multiplicity of regulatory agencies, especially from the labs' board, which has taken the ministry to court because of malpractice. Masasabi said counties’ problems with the delivery of health services has been because of how they manage human resources. "We have agreed that we will have to bring in what we call conditionality of funding,” he said. Ther requirement will ensure that when the counties are given funding, they will have to recruit and show that the person is on payroll before the funds are sent.