Kenya Hockey Union (KHU) are planning to devolve the men's national league starting next year. The union has proposed to divide the league into two thus Eastern and Western regions from next year in a bid to empower the county associations to oversee the matches. KHU chairman Nashon Randiek explained that the move is meant to minimize the costs for the clubs due to geographical spread and enhance competition and growth of the sport Randiek said the move will also decongest the City Park Stadium and take the sport to grass root levels. He intimated that the union will work with county associations to identify appropriate grounds as per the required standards. However, Bungoma Farmer Hockey club coach  Mutanda Gladson opposed the idea, saying it will kill talent. He said currently, the National League only boosts 11 teams and dividing will make the event less competitive. He said: “Sometimes some regions are more developed and have good teams hence dividing the league is tantamount to make them less competitive. As much as the union is keen for growth in other areas, competition may not be enhanced." He cited the school games which he noted had suffered from similar geographical division. “When St Anthony's was forced to compete in the western region alongside the then champions Kamusinga, one of them had to suffer when it came qualification to nationals. This forced St. Antony's to appeal for a return to Rift Valley," he said. He, however, said the Super League would augur well with KHU proposals because of the superior number of teams and the high cost involved. "It can be done at Super League level which has 12 teams. My team played 14 times in Nairobi last season compared to the Premier League. A team like Western Jaguars has to travel to Nairobi only four times and spend less. The decision would be ideal for the second tier which has teams from Nairobi, Mombasa, Kisumu and Western.” The National League is played in one leg only. Randiek said so far, no team has shown interest in joining the National League despite efforts to have more teams on board. The recruitment of players by clubs is set to start next month while the next season will begin in March =