Senators have expressed disappointment at the dismissal of workers at the troubled Mumias Sugar Company by the receiver KCB Group. They promised swift action to help the workers. The lawmakers castigated receiver PVR Rao for laying off the workers without a proper compensation plan as outlined in labour laws. They also vented their anger on the government, accusing it of overseeing mass layoffs and the collapse of mega companies. They were reacting to a statement sought by Gertrude Musuruve (nominated) regarding last week’s sacking of all company staff. The employees had gone for 30 months without pay. But in a notice, Rao said the layoff was part of the restructuring plan to revive the company. “Any payment to the affected employees shall be dealt with in accordance with the provision of the law," the notice read. Musuruve demanded an explanation for the circumstances that led to the dismissal and whether it was carried out in compliance with labour laws. “We need to know the reasons advanced by the receiver at the company for the subsequent hiring of staff on contract,” she said. The senators also demanded to know whether all the workers were paid all their dues and whether measures were put in place to ensure they, alongside their families, do not suffer psychological trauma. “The committee should state the measures in place by the receiver-manager to revive the company,” she added. Moses Wetang'ula (Bung'oma) took issue with the Jubilee administration, accusing it of reneging on its promise to the people of Western to revive the company — the region’s economic backbone. "In 2013, I attended a rally in Mumias and President Uhuru Kenyatta himself said his government would not let down Mumias Sugar Company," he said. "A government that is committed to industrialisation, job creation and all that Big Four agenda should not let such a big industry die." Kakamega's Cleophas Malala called for quick intervention from the House saying there were concerns the bank was planning to kick out the workers from company houses. “Mumias Sugar has been an economic pillar in entire Western Kenya. The law of natural justice [requires that] if a receivership manager takes over a company, he takes over all the assets and liabilities. If it took over the entire plant, including the nucleus, it should also take up the issue of workers’ salaries,” he said. Deputy Speaker Kithure Kindiki directed the Labour and Social Welfare committee to immediately probe the matter to ensure the sacked workers get justice. Committee chairman Johnson Sakaja will immediately take up the matter and invite relevant stakeholders, including members of the task-force appointed by the President to look into ways of reviving the firm. “We are told the receiver is implementing the recommendation of the task-force that was headed by Kakamega governor. We will start by summoning members of the task-force,” he said. Edited by R.Wamochie