Kisumu leaders have condemned the gruesome killings of six Kisumu “bouncers” at a funeral in Busia in a case of mistaken identity. The six were killed on Friday evening while providing security at the funeral of prominent businessman Johanes Okoth in Masebula village, Busia County. The late Okoth was killed two weeks ago by unknown assailants. Busia residents lynched the victims who had been hired as bouncers after suspecting them to be the killers of Okoth. The victims Richard Odero, William Omondi, Evans Onyango, Philip Kwach, David Okeyo and Elvis Odoyo hail from Kakola village in Nyando sub-county. Western Regional Police Commander Edward Mwamburi said the villagers suspected that the six could have been linked to the death of the businessman and descended on them killing them. “Villagers became suspicious when they spotted six clad in black suits. They noticed one of them had a bag and demanded to search it and upon the search, discovered three knives," he said. Kisumu Governor Anyang  Nyong'o said he was deeply concerned by the gruesome murder of the young men from Kisumu. “We want thorough probe undertaken to bring to light what circumstances occasioned the murder,” he said. He urged the families of the deceased and the locals to remain calm as the police pursue the matter to bring those responsible to book. Nyando MP Jared Okello termed the incident unfortunate and called for a comprehensive probe. “We want to know what really happened that occasioned the deaths of the six bouncers who went to provide security in a funeral in Busia. Family and relatives want justice too,” he said. Okello while condoling with mourners at a home of one of the victims on Saturday said they have lost energetic youth who have been killed through mistaken identity. The MP said those involved in the killings of the six youths should be arrested and charged as well as those behind the murder of the businessman. “As we wait for the police to carry out investigations, let us maintain peace for justice to prevail,” he said. On his part, Muhoroni MP Onyango Koyoo said the mourners should be arrested and taken them to Bumala Police Station for interrogation if at all they suspected them to be criminals. "We want to know who killed the six. People should know that the best place to report suspects is a police station and not to take law in their hands,”Koyoo said. Nyanza Regional Police Commander Vincent Makhoha said they have beefed up security in the region and called for calm. "We are prepared to ensure everybody and their property are fully protected," Makhoha said. The bodies of the slain youths were on Saturday brought to Ahero sub-county hospital mortuary from Busia county hospital at 11 pm.