Former President Daniel Moi has been re-admitted to Nairobi Hospital only two days after he was discharged. Sources told the Star Moi was rushed back to the hospital on Saturday morning. It was not immediately clear whether he was taken back to ICU, where he was before he was discharged, or to the general ward in the VIP section. “He was brought back but it is not clear which ward he has been taken to. His security detail is seen around and his family members have also been seen,” a source told the Star. Moi’s spokesman Lee Njiru, who resides in Nakuru county said he was not aware that the former president had been hospitalised. "I am not sure, but I will get back. I will call back," Moi's long-serving press secretary, Lee Njiru said. Lee announced on Thursday last week that the retired President had been allowed to go home after spending 10 days in the hospital. Moi’s medical team led by his personal physician David Silverstein gave him a clean bill of health and said he would be monitored from his Kabarnet home, Nairobi. "The Moi family has expressed gratitude to all those who offered prayers and sent quick recovery messages," he said hours after Moi left the hospital. This is the third time the 95-year-old former head of state has been admitted to the hospital in less than two months. Doctors say he has recurring chest complications that affect his breathing. During Moi's initial admission to the hospital, he was treated for pleural effusion, a medical condition where excess fluids accumulate around the lung areas. Moi’s latest chest issues are compounded by the knee pain he has been nursing for some time following an accident involving his car in 2006 in Limuru. In March 2018, Moi was flown to Israel following "an uncomfortable knee." On January 27, 2017, he underwent minor surgery on the knee at Aga Khan University Hospital in Nairobi. Moi took over as Kenya's second president following the death of founding President Jomo Kenyatta in 1978. He joined active politics in 1955, being selected to the colonial Legislative Council, famously known as Legco, to represent Rift Valley region.