The contentious Fedha/Nyayo Estate Gate B road is not part of the Nairobi Regeneration program, records at Kenya Urban Roads Authority (KURA) indicate. This sharply contradicts the position taken by Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko that the road is under the Regeneration Program which is currently doing 38 roads in the county. The one-kilometre road stretch has been on a deplorable state for years inconveniencing thousands of residents who in numerous occasions have resorted to road protests. The deteriorating condition of the road has been linked to the usage, poor drainage and existence of illegal car wash along the road. On Wednesday, Sonko in a statement claimed the road is part of the program which is under Kenya Urban Roads Authority. “For information, under Nairobi Regeneration Program, the Rehabilitation of Eastlands Roads including the Fedha Road is under Kenya Urban Roads Authority (KURA) to be done with the financial contribution of Nairobi City County,” Sonko said in a statement. The Governor added the County had paid Sh800 million to the authority for the rehabilitation of the identified roads. “As a County Government, we made a commitment to pay Sh900 million to KURA as our part of the contribution towards the rehabilitation of diverse roads including Fedha Road under the programme by the Authority in the last Financial Year 2018/19. As of July 12, 2019, we had paid Sh800 Million to KURA,” he stated. But according to Authority’s records seen by the Star, the road linking Fedha to Nyayo Estate gate B is not part of the listed 38 roads. “In the last one year, KURA has partnered with the Nairobi County Government under the Regeneration program which covered a list of 38 roads, unfortunately the county government and area Member of Parliament did not include Fedha road in the list of roads under improvement,” read part of KURA document in possession of the Star. The area is under Embakasi East Constituency represented by Babu Owino. According to the documents, KURA has not received any funding from the County Government on Fedha road even in Phase Two of the program. The regeneration program is a joint initiative by the national and Nairobi County government where the National government through KURA contributed Sh1.97 billion under Road Maintenance Levy Fund while the county was to contribute Sh900 million to improve the state of the roads.