Kenya has rolled out an initiative to equip persons living with disabilities with information on sexual and reproductive health rights. The initiative announced at the ongoing International Conference on Population and Development in Nairobi aims to raise awareness and strengthen protections for the rights and safety of the disabled. A 2018 study on young persons with disabilities by the United Nations Population Fund shows such people face higher risks of physical and sexual abuse and are denied access to sexual and reproductive health. According to a press statement by the Population Reference Bureau, which will provide funding towards the initiative, girls and young women with disabilities are at the highest risk of violence. "They are also least likely to be educated about their sexual and reproductive health and rights, putting them at greater risk of exploitation, unplanned pregnancy, and sexually transmitted infections," the statement reads. Speaking during the event in Nairobi on Wednesday, Culture and Sports PS Josephta Mukobe said denial of access to information and services makes persons with disabilities appear poor and deprived. She said most government medical personnel and facilities are not equipped to care for persons with disabilities. "Persons with disabilities are disadvantaged when accessing sexual and reproductive health services. When they go to facilities they are ridiculed and abuses," Mukobe said. "I had a friend who went to give birth at a medical facility and received poor treatment and during her second pregnancy, she chose to give birth at home." The PS added that persons with disabilities are prone to gender-based violence and rape by those meant to protect them. "Justice is also evasive for persons with disability. It becomes an uphill task to report the crime, the police may not take you seriously and finding proof is a challenge," she said. Jeff Jordan, the bureau's president, said it is crucial to reach the most vulnerable communities as part of efforts to strengthen sexual and reproductive health rights globally.  "We pleased to join others to ensure women and young people with disabilities get the information and support they need to make their own decisions," he said. Nominated MP David ole Sankok, who represents persons with disabilities in Parliament, termed it shameful when persons with disabilities are denied sexual and reproductive health rights. He said the disabled are constantly asked whether they can get pregnant, HIV-Aids and sexually transmitted diseases. This is based on the assumption that persons with disabilities do not engage in sexual activities due to their disabilities. He added that even when it comes to marriage, they are disadvantaged. "The girl I wanted to marry rejected me and told me she was only being nice to me because of my disability," he said. Susan Masika, the executive director of Special Olympics Kenya, said, "Persons with disability face greater occurrences of sexual and gender violence, which largely go unreported and they are not given the opportunity to make decisions on their sexual and reproductive health." Masika said individuals with intellectual disabilities have almost no opportunity to receive sexual and reproductive health education. "We need to build systems and practices that are responsive and inclusive of persons with intellectual disabilities," she said. Masika encouraged healthcare practitioners to make more effort to respond to the needs of women and girls with disabilities. "We must fully implement laws, policies, and guidelines related to SRHR and embrace the spirit of not leaving anyone behind," she said. PS Mukobe emphasised the importance of data and the implementation of legislation. "We also need to find ways to ensure the benefits of the government to persons with disabilities reach the majority. It is also important to do research on why certain disabilities are prevalent and how we can prevent them," she said. (Edited by F'Orieny)