Fast-rising Wazalendo  have been challenged to play without fear to cement second spot when they take on in form Kenya Police in the final men's hockey Premier League match at the City Park Stadium tomorrow. The Fidelis Kimanzi tutored side have garnered 33 points and the law enforcers are a point behind them. Wazalendo won the first leg 2-1 but lost 2-0 to reigning champions Butali in their last match. Despite a slow start, police got their winning spark back claiming 13 points from a possible 15 in five matches. Kimazi said Police are slight favorites because of their experience and exposure but urged his charges to stick with the team's attacking philosophy. He downplayed claims of a season double adding that it will be another normal match and looks for a response from the team. He said: "The most important thing is for the boys to enjoy the game, play with confidence and fight for three points. They are on a good run but we know them very well. They are an experienced side but we bring agility and youthfulness. We have everything to play for and the players will do what is required." His opposite number Patrick Mugambi said three points is the bare minimum for a place in the African Cup of Club Championship next year because the first two teams are entitled to play in the competition. He said: "It's a do or die game for us. We want to overturn the first leg loss and book a spot in the ACC championship in 2020. Our superiority in midfield will work for us." Elsewhere, four-time league winners Butali Warriors will finish the season unbeaten if they avoid defeat against Greensharks. The two sides played out a goalless draw in the first leg and Butali will be playing for pride as well having sealed the title. Festus Onyango captained Strathmore take on relegated Parklands.  Sikh Union who will be plying trade in the Super League next season face Western Jaguars as seventh-placed Sailors entertain United States International University Africa USIU-A Mashujaa. Women side Sailors  has two fixtures. They are penciled to play Strathmore University Scorpions today before a mouth-watering encounter with newbies Lakers tomorrow at the City Park.  Sailors recorded a 0-0 all draw with both sides. Sailors' hat trick hero Linet Lusinde whose goals relocated JKUAT last weekend is tipped to continue with her goal-scoring exploits.