Sir Ali Muslim Club produced a clinical performance to book a date with Swamipaba in the final of the Nairobi Invitational Cricket League 50 overs tournament on Sunday after beating Kanbis by two wickets at Nairobi Gymkhana. Sunday’s showpiece will be Sir Ali's maiden final in years. However, It was not all smooth sailing for Swamis as they escaped a late challenge from Kanbis bowlers before romping into their historic final with 62 balls to spare. Sitting comfortably at 125 for 4, Sir Ali had to endure some spirited bowling show from Kanbis spinners before sealing the match with two wickets in hand. Ugandan Siraje Nsubuga (3/37), Taran Singh (2/21) and Abdul Rehman (2/18) shared seven wickets between them to keep Kanbis in check after being asked to bowl. The final will be a third meeting between the two sides in the event with Swamibapa having won the last two encounters. Chasing the modest total, Sir Ali started the inning on a sour note,  losing their first three wickets for 21 runs before a fourth-wicket stand of 43 and a fifth-wicket stand of 59 brought them back into the game. Opener Abdul Rehman (17) and Zaheer Abbas (50) started cautiously for the fourth wicket stand before unsettling Kanbis bowlers. Abbas was more aggressive among the scoring his half-ton in 82 balls including eight boundaries while Rehman played second fiddle, posting 17 off 39 balls. But just after notching up his 50 in a fifth-wicket stand with Nsubuga, Abbass departed while going for a big shot. After his exit, Nsubuga took charge with a patient 29 off 58 balls. Nsubuga looked so cautious about crossing the line, opting for singles that eventually led to his downfall courtesy of lbw by Nischay Kerai in the 36th over. Vivak Kukade (12) and Hamza Malik (4) got out cheaply but Taran (9 not out) remained at the crease to ensure a win for Sir Ali. Earlier, while electing to bat, Kanbis made a shaky start with Rajesh Bhudiya (5) and Sachin Bhudia (1) back in the pavilion with only 18 on the board.  Dhiren Gondaria (36) and Nelson Odhiambo (17) briefly steadied the inning with a third-wicket stand of 34 runs in eight overs. Kanbis then lost Gondaria and Rakep Patel for a duck in quick succession to stand at 54 for 4. But late resistance from Pushpak Kerai (22), Harish Kabaria (24) and Mikunj Pindoria (21) pushed them to the 150 mark.