The University of Nairobi has suspended provision of tea, snacks and water to its staff. The move is aimed at cutting costs. In a memo dated November 15 and seen by the Star, the university said the decision follows a meeting by President Uhuru Kenyatta at State House where all public institutions were directed to implement specific cost-cutting measures to ensure sustainability in government operations. The office of the vice chancellor said the move will enable the institution to allocate more resources to fund prioritised government programmes. "The university is therefore implementing the proposed measures in all colleges and units," the memo reads. It said no new capital projects will be introduced during the current financial year. The memo signed by acting vice-chancellor Isaac Mbeche said there will be no more memorandum of understanding between the University and any private entity involving new commitment or net outflow of funds. "All pending bills and other obligations owed by the university must be settled by the end of November." It said any surplus funds invested in Treasury Bills by any college or any other form of investment must be liquidated and submitted to the National Treasury on or before November 15. "All monies generated internally by the university is government money. The university must pay all taxes due to the government," the memo reads. Mbeche said there will be a rationaliasation of all expenditure on non-core activities. "These measures take effect immediately. Therefore, all heads of departments and central units must conform to the undersigned on the status of implementation by November 18," the memo reads. The university on Monday disbanded the department handling self-sponsored programmes, citing reduced revenues. In a statement, University Council chairperson Julia Ojiambo said the decision was reached in a meeting held last week on Tuesday. "The council at its meeting held on November 19 comprehensively deliberated on the establishment and functions of the centre for self-sponsored programmes," read the statement. edited by peter obuya