A family in Nyarkulian village in Pokot South constituency is mourning the loss of seven children in the Saturday night landslide. Kapel Yaranyang told the Stare the family had attend a church function and around midnight he allowed his children to go back home. The 46-year-old father said he remained behind with his wife and their one-year-old baby boy child. By the time they came back home at around 2.00am the whole village had been destroyed by floods. “I could not believe my eyes when I saw the mass destruction. I knew my children we dead and I could not find them,” he said. The children were five girls and two boys, all aged below 20. Nyaranyang said currently they had no shelter and asked well wishers to help them in building a temporal house. “We have been left with nothing. All our property has been destroyed. I urge well wishers to come and help us,” he said. On Sartuday night, landslides were reported in West Pokot causing death of more than 40 people and wreaking massive destruction. A police chopper was unable to land near the affected area on Sunday due to poor weather, forcing the pilot to return to Nairobi. Military choppers carrying food and medical supplies were expected on Sunday. West Pokot leaders were stranded at Sebit area for ten hours, some 12km away from the scene of the incident. Governor John Lonyangapuo described the landslide as the worst disaster that has  happened in the region. “We have lost property worth millions of shilling sand we shall require a lot of funds to help in the repairs,” he said. Lonyagapuo asked residents on hills in the county to move to safer places since the region is expected to continue receiving heavy rains. President Uhuru Kenyatta sent his condolences to the affected families. “My thoughts and prayers and those of our entire nation are with families, friends and relatives of those who have lost their loved ones in the unfortunate incident. Please accept my heartfelt condolences,” he said. By the time of going to press many families in the county were still searching for the bodies of their loved ones.