 Bungoma MCAs and Woman Representative Catherine Wambilianga has promised to rally residents to reject the BBI if it does not propose devolution of more resources. Speaking in Sirisia on Sunday, the politicians said they will oppose the BBI if it does not propose more cash allocation to counties. They spoke at Sirisia Primary School in Misikhu ward, Webuye West constituency during the MCAs merry-go-round drive dubbed Maendeleo Mashinani Initiative. Wambilianga said they were eagerly waiting for President Uhuru Kenyatta to make the BBI report public before they can comment on it. "If the BBI will not address the pressing issues wananchi face from corruption, insecurity, tribalism to joblessness we will not agree with it," the MP said. She asked residents to keenly read the document and understand its proposals. Siboti MCA Wamusai Simiyu said that BBI can only be supported on the premise that it ensures "the interests of our people are taken care of." Wamusai said Kenyans were already overburdened by the high cost of living, saying inflation had rise. As such, we cannot allow the BBI to heap more burden on Kenyans, Wamusaid said in reference to claims the BBI will propose an expanded Executive. "If BBI proposes having a three-tire government structure, it will be adding more burden to the taxpayer," he said. The MMI comprises 15 MCAs from the Bungoma county assembly with meetings every Sunday. Members contribute between Sh7,000 and Sh10,000 each for savings. Group chairman Joram Wanjala (Bukembe West) said they will use the platform to interact with the electorate. He said cash raised will be used in empowerment programmes targeting vulnerable groups of women, youths, disabled and elderly persons. "As we move around every Sunday, we usually invite the Woman Representative but the MMI is purely an MCA movement," Wanjala said. Misikhu MCA Milly Masungo said they usually give grants to various women, disabled and youth groups and also buy items like iron sheets, gas cookers, that they give to various families.  edited by peter obuya