Boutross’ “ 6ixviewsii8k “  launch The king of Shrap music Boutross Munene drops his fifth mixtape “6ixviewsii8k" this Saturday, November 9, at DeepWest Lounge, Nairobi. The star-studded mixtape launch will certainly be graced by an extensive lineup of performers including Dj Mawinch, Dj Slim B, Xenia Manasseh, Boondocks Gang, Jovvie Jovv, Dope-I-Mean, Barak Jacuzzi, Dj Lizbon, Dj Coco Em, Masta VK, EA Wave, Groove, Wakadinali, Raj, Shappaman, Nviiri the Storyteller and many more. You cannot miss this! KAMAUU Live In Nairobi Guess who’s back in town this weekend? American creative brother KAMAUU will bring the house down on Sunday, November 10 at the Alchemist Bar, Nairobi. With his latest project that continues his cassette series, KAMAUU is expected to deliver a powerful performance bigger than his last. The after-party will be hosted by Uganda’s “Parte After Parte” hitmaker Bigtril. Certainly, Sunday is a vibe! Shamsi Fest Instrumental jazz fusion band Shamsi Music is turning 5 in style. They will be celebrating half a decade in the music scene at the Shamsi Fest this Sunday, November 10 at 910 James Gichuru. For good vibes and energy, join one of Kenya’s biggest bands as they take their audience down the memory lane through a musical showcase like no other. Rhythm and Brunch Enjoy great music this Saturday, November 9 at Four Points in Hurlingham, Nairobi from 11am till late. The performance will feature an all-female lineup that will include Ivlyn Mutua, Trina Mungai and Meryl Paige. Attendees will also get to experience board games, the heated pool, EPL screening and Gin Cocktails. On the decks will be Sounds of Riley. Entry is free. Anto Live 3.0 November 9, the Anto Live 3.0 featuring Anto Neosoul will be going down at the Alchemist Bar, Nairobi from 6 pm till late. It will be a showcase of Anto’s extensive catalog which will include music from his debut album “Starborn” to his most recent projects. Attendees will also get to experience music from his upcoming album “4656” as well as an exhibition of artist Kabue’s incomparable works. On the decks will be DJ Presley. Entry is Free. Ikulu Kultured Groove Shack Systems presents an evening of amazing live music influenced by culture and art on Friday, November 15 from 7 pm till late at Hillpark Hotel in Upper Hill, Nairobi. Ikulu Kultured is a place where we honor our culture as it evolves with the influence of modernity and this edition will feature a live performance from Meryl Paige and on the decks Mess Dj.