Kilifi North MP Owen Baya is opposed to the formation of a Coast-based political party ahead of 2022. Baya said the region should remain in ODM, one of the biggest parties in the country, and use its numbers to push for top government positions. Addressing journalists in Malindi on Sunday, the legislator dismissed claims the region has not benefitted from the party led by former Prime Minister Raila Odinga to warrant thoughts of forming their own party. Besides, he said, the deputy party leader is from the Coast–Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho. Kilifi Senator Stewart Madzayo, Baya said, was also appointed Member of the Pan African Parliament which sits in South Africa with him as the party's Organising Secretary. "Going to the next elections disgruntled, fractured and going to several places without coming from a party that is one and strong in the country will do us a disservice," he said. The MP said Kilifi is one of the counties that benefitted immensely from ODM "and that cannot be disputed". Previously, he said, Kilifi held the Minority chief whip and the pan African Parliament–held by former MP Gideon Mung'aro. Kilifi produced seven MPs, a senator, Woman Rep, Governor and a majority of MCAs from the ODM Party. "Now, it's time the Coast region united and voted overwhelmingly for ODM to have bigger bargaining power in the general election." Baya added that the region stands to benefit from the proposed changes to the Constitution in the Building Bridges Initiative if they remain united. He warned residents to stop spreading propaganda that Raila has done nothing for Kilifi county or the Coast region adding that those who benefitted from the positions will be the ones to blame if they don't use them to help their people. "If BBI goes through, it will help in bringing development because there will be the formation of the regional government, executive positions like the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister among others," he said. The Coast is a renowned ODM stronghold and has more than 32 legislators and remains one of the key regions where Raila enjoys support. Some leaders have been pushing for a homegrown party to be used as a bargaining tool in the national political arena. Among the parties that exist already include Shirikisho, Kadu Asili and the recently launched Umoja Summit Party. Edited by R.Wamochie