Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria has alleged the National Assembly Budget Committee - which he is part of - has committed several malpractices over the years. Speaking on Citizen TV's Daybreak show, Kuria, who has been in the Budget Committee since 2014, said the panel approves budgets by ministries without proper oversight, hence lying to Kenyans about their budget deficits. "We (Parliament) have failed in our oversight duties. The country is in a hole for we said yes instead of no. Ours is an error of omission. Every year we have sold to Kenyans this romantic story that all is well because we respect the Executive and most of us are in the ruling party," he said. The outspoken legislator said that for several years of his tenure in the budget committee books have been "cooked" and lies told about budget deficits. "I am Catholic; that is why I am offering an apology. For seven years we have cheated this country that we do zero-based budgeting, lied about deficits and cooked books, " he said. However, committee chairman Kimani Ichung'wah dismissed the allegations and said he would not answer to any matter raised by Kuria. "Please don't ask me about anything Moses Kuria says. I can never respond to anything raised by Moses Kuria. Maybe any else who is a serious Kenyan," he said. Kuria said the World Bank and ADB offer cheap loans, but Treasury opted for expensive commercial loans. "I urge (former Treasury PS Kamau) Thugge, (former CS Henry) Rotich to face Kenyans and tell them of the malpractice as they ask for an apology," he said. Commercial banks will on Tuesday know their way forward in setting lending rates to borrowers after the Parliament vote. The legislature is expected to vote on whether or not to repeal the interest rate cap following President Uhuru' directive. Last month, President Uhuru declined to sign the Finance Bill 2019 giving a directive that the Parliament should scrap the which he said had singled out the reduction of credit to the private sector, led to a decline in economic growth andmushrooming of shylocks in the market. He also pointed out that the rate cap had affected lenders in a way of increasing their average loan size, which disproportionately affected small firms and individuals. The instructions put the lawmakers in tight fix as the repeal has some critics state that the banks will probably head back to days borrowing rate were as high as 30 per cent before the effect of the interest rate cap. This is also as finance committee said in a report that Parliament should repeal the cap in line with the president’s demands. In September 2016, the Parliament voted the interest rate cap that allowed banks to charge four percentage points above the central bank benchmark rate at 9 per cent. As of May this year, the weighted average lending rate by commercial banks was 12.47 per cent, according to the Central Bank of Kenya data. Institute of Economic Affairs chief executive Kwame Owino on his Twitter feed on Friday said the role of government regulation in the matter should be reviewed. “Discussion about interest rates & retail lending doesn't end with 2019 repeal. The caps were ineffective and shouldn't have been implemented but the role of government regulation needs to be revisited,” Owino said.