In my perspective, leadership is a scary concept because it determines every outcome, good or bad; it can bring about so much good or evil. The devastation that poor leadership can cause is crazy and has been documented throughout history. Alternatively, good leadership can cause good things to occur in people’s lives. There is a proverb that says: a good tree bears good fruits and a bad tree bears bad fruits – this logic applies to leadership. Now, the world faces a global leadership crisis. The challenges in modern culture are increasingly complex and have left many leaders confused. One reason for this confusion is that many people in leadership positions are not skilled in the art of leadership. They sit in the position, but ignorant of the craft. This dilemma has made the situation complex. Hence, the need for people who truly understand how to deploy good leadership. Leadership is a system. Every system is built on thoughts. This means that the thinking of those in leadership positions determines the elements of the system and how it runs. Leaders should be careful to organize their thoughts and put the right elements in place for effective leadership. This is how good leadership emerges. And where there is good leadership, these three things occur; let me explain. Good Leadership Creates Safety: Every leader creates an environment. And this environment is either safe or unsafe. Good leadership strives to create an environment where people are safe – and yes, it may not be perfect, but safety is sure. Good leaders create a space where people are treated with dignity and respect. In this space, people feel protected. Good Leadership Fosters Growth: One sign of good leadership is that people flourish – they grow. This is possible because good leadership is a safe space to make mistakes, learn and grow. People are encouraged to go through the required process to develop their gifts and gain confidence in their abilities. People get better with time under good leadership. The before and after can be seen. Therefore, I believe that good leadership is tangible – it can be seen, touched and felt. Good Leadership increases Productivity: This is a fact. Where you find good leadership, people maximize their potential. They experience increased productivity; they produce results at a high rate. Good leadership raises people’s consciousness and gives them clarity. Hence, they grow in creativity and can apply their gifts to higher levels. Here, people do amazing things because good leadership sets people free. Email: smpamugo@gmail.com