Taita Taveta workers have been given seven days to declare their wealth to allow the county government to deposit their returns with EACC. Governor Granton Samboja assured residents his government will work around the clock to beat the deadline and comply with the EACC directive. “Every county staffer must comply with this Act. As you may be aware, this is the first time that as a county government we are embarking on an exercise such as this since the inception of devolution as captured under the County Governments Act, 2012,” Samboja said. He warned that only those who will have filled the wealth declaration forms will receive their November salary. “Please accord those in charge of this process the support they need. Financial declarations by public officials is a step in the right direction by institutions that seek to fight corruption and plunder of public resources,” the governor said. Samboja spoke when he hosted officials from the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission at his Wundanyi office. He said the exercise is aimed at evaluating potential conflicts of interest and promoting accountability among public officials and tracking down questionable acquisition of finances. The wealth declaration exercise demands that as public officers make known their individual income, assets and liabilities and those of their spouses and children under the age of eighteen. This is in line with the provisions of the Public Officers Ethics Act, 2003 that applies to the national and county governments. A similar exercise in 2017 was met with resistance as a good number of counties in failed to submit the declarations forms. EACC Coast region deputy director Japheth Baithalu commended the Taita Taveta County Public Service Board for complying with the Public Officers Ethics Act, making it the 28th board in the country to establish administrative procedures meant to aid in the declaration of wealth. Baithalu reaffirmed the commission’s commitment in fighting corruption and called upon county governments to help promote leadership, integrity, good governance to earn the trust of citizens in public service. “Corruption has flourished as a result erosion of our values, traditions and the moral fabric. Individual and concerted efforts are important in cultivating a culture of honesty hard work and rejection of corruption in public service,” Baithalu said. As outlined by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission, the exercise should end by December.