The KCPE exam scores are set to be released today, an official from the Education Ministry has said. The official said education stakeholders are currently meeting at the Knec headquarters in Nairobi ahead of the release. The KCSE exams enter their third week on Monday, leaving exactly 10 days to the close of the test. The conclusion of KCSE paves the way for the release of the KCPE exam scores. The earliest set of KCSE candidates to complete the exam will write their last paper on Friday, ending their four-year journey in secondary school. So far, the candidates have sat 17 papers and some are remaining with as few as nine papers to complete. Those technical subjects of home science and others will wait until November 27 for their practicals. Education CS George Magoha, in a progress statement on Friday, said the examinations were largely credible. He said there were isolated cases in which students and examiners have been arrested engaging in cheating and other exam malpractice. In the first two weeks of the test, 45 people have been arrested in connection to examination malpractices according to the Examination Council data. Also, 35 phones were confiscated in the same period. The incidents were largely blamed on private examination centres. The government only allows the centre managers (principals) of a school to have a mobile phone during the national examination period. In the second week, another six were arrested including two Biology teachers in Samburu suspected to aid students in cheating in the subject. In addition, a chemical used in the Chemistry practicals was linked to various ill effects complications on candidates and examiners. This year, a total of 699,746 candidates are sitting the KCSE exams. Kenya National Examination Council CEO Mercy Karogo said on Sunday, "We still remain focused to ensure that the exam continues without any tampering or disruption and that's our focus for the rest of the week." Basic Education PS Belio Kipsang said he is optimistic that this year, the candidates will post better results. He said he had observed higher confidence levels among the candidates in centres he had visited. “From all the examination centres I have visited and to which my other colleagues can also attest, it is clear that the level of anxiety among our candidates has gone down drastically. Everywhere we have been, we have noticed that the candidates concentrate a lot in their examination papers unlike before,” he said. Edited by R.Wamochie