Three suspects accused of murdering a Machakos priest and burying his body in a riverbed have been released on bond. Embu resident judge Florence Muchemi said she released Michael Muthini Mutunga, Kavivya Mwangangi and Solomon Mutava because the prosecution took too long to complete investigations. She granted the application by defence lawyers Kirimi Guantai and Alfonse Bindyo to release them and have them charged after the Directorate of Criminal Investigations finishes investigations. Guantai and Bindyo complained that by Thursday, the DCI had not completed its investigations, a month after their clients were arrested in connection with the murder of the priest. The lawyers lamented that they could not have their clients take a plea before they were served with all the committal bundles after the prosecution failed to comply with the court's direction to do so. Kirimi said the prosecution had not indicated the DPP had given a go-ahead for the suspects to be charged. State counsel Jackline Marete admitted that they had not supplied all the material since they were "very bulky and some analysis had not been completed". Thus, they sought more time. The lawyers further said it had been indicated that the third suspect might not be charged and might instead be used as a prosecution witness. "Thus it would be wrong for him to be charged and then released after suffering in custody." Muchemi released the suspects on Sh300,000 bond each and surety of similar amount. They will return to court on December 16 for further direction. The 40-year-old priest disappeared from his parent’s Tala home in Matungulu, Machakos county, on October 5. His body was recovered on October 16 from a shallow grave in seasonal River Mashamba’s bed at Mbeere South, Embu. It was stashed in a white sack bearing what the detectives described as scarring injuries. His car was recovered at the Coast with the detectives also disclosing that Sh300,000 had been withdrawn from his account before he was murdered. Edited by R.Wamochie