A 57-year-old mother of 10 and her teenage daughter are fighting for their lives at Nyahururu Referral Hospital after they were attacked on Tuesday night. The 15-year-old girl was gang-raped. The girl, who had sat her KCPE examination, was abandoned near her father's grave in the family's burial ground. An axe was left nearby. The mother was in her bed, soaked in blood. Both were bleeding profusely. The motive was not immediately known but Nyandarua West subcounty police commander Isaac Ruto said family members may have committed the crime over a land dispute. The attack by two men occurred in Ol Joro Orok constituency. The criminals entered by digging under the house where the woman and three children slept. The mother and daughter suffered knife injuries to the head and were struck with blunt objects. They are in critical but stable condition. The criminals escaped before neighbours could answer the distress call. "Those criminals must have believed their killing mission was complete," a relative said. The victims were rushed to  J.M.Kariuki Memorial Hospital but clinical offers were absent, on strike. They were rushed to a private hospital at Nyahururu town where they were again turned away on grounds it was a police case. They finally were admitted to Nyahururu Referral Hospital in critical condition. Neighbours said they heard a distress call at midnight and rushed to the scene. They found one son outside, he told them his mother had been critically injured and his sister had been abducted. The girl was discovered in the bush, groaning in pain. She had been defiled, had a knife injury to the head and had been struck by a blunt object. Police boss Ruto told the Sar on Wednesday night that the Nyandarua West DCI has taken over the case. "We know them. Rest assured we shall arrest them and take them to court," he said. A family member who sought anonymity confirmed there has been a land dispute dating back to 2013 after the woman's husband died in a road accident. The attack by two men occurred in Ol Joro Orok constituency. The criminals entered by digging under the house where the woman and three children slept. The mother and daughter suffered knife injuries to the head and were struck with blunt objects. They are in critical but stable condition. The criminals escaped before neighbours could answer the distress call. "Those criminals must have believed their killing mission was complete," a relative said. The victims were rushed to  J.M.Kariuki Memorial Hospital but clinical offers were absent, on strike. They were rushed to a private hospital at Nyahururu town where they were again turned away on grounds it was a police case. They finally were admitted to Nyahururu Referral Hospital in critical condition. Neighbours said they heard a distress call at midnight and rushed to the scene. They found one son outside, he told them his mother had been critically injured and his sister had been abducted. The girl was discovered in the bush, groaning in pain. She had been defiled, had a knife injury to the head and had been struck by a blunt object. Police boss Ruto told the Sar on Wednesday night  that the Nyandarua West DCI has taken over the case. "We know them. Rest assured we shall arrest them and take them to court," he said. A family member who sought anonymity confirmed there has been a land dispute dating back to 2013 after the woman's husband died in a road accident.  The criminals entered by digging under the house where the woman and three children slept. The mother and daughter suffered knife injuries to the head and were struck with blunt objects. They are in critical but stable condition. The criminals escaped before neighbours could answer the distress call. "Those criminals must have believed their killing mission was complete," a relative said. The victims were rushed to  J.M.Kariuki Memorial Hospital but clinical offers were absent, on strike. They were rushed to a private hospital at Nyahururu town where they were again turned away on grounds it was a police case. They finally were admitted to Nyahururu Referral Hospital in critical condition. Neighbours said they heard a distress call at midnight and rushed to the scene. They found one son outside, he told them his mother had been critically injured and his sister had been abducted. The girl was discovered in the bush, groaning in pain. She had been defiled, had a knife injury to the head and had been struck by a blunt object. Police boss Ruto told the Sar on Wednesday night  that the Nyandarua West DCI has taken over the case. "We know them. Rest assured we shall arrest them and take them to court," he said. A family member who sought anonymity confirmed there has been a land dispute dating back to 2013 after the woman's husband died in a road accident. (Edited by V. Graham) 