Counties drawn from the coastal region will host the 2nd annual Jumuiya Agribusiness and Blue Economy Investment Conference (JABEIC) on December 10-11th. The 2019 conference will be held at the Ocean Beach Resort in Malindi, Kilifi County. Jumuiya Ya Kaunti za Pwani (JKP) held its first conference last year in November,  in Mombasa which was inaugurated by President Uhuru Kenyatta. Last year, the conference majorly focussed on mega projects within the six counties in the region which was said to stimulate economic growth. JKP Secretariat in partnership with Generation Kenya, Sera Afrika, IgovAfrica and Swahilipot Hub will host an inaugural economic development innovation challenge from December 2 -9, 2019 in Mombasa. The conference will be attended by more than 700 investors who will be presented ideas by the members from the bloc. Emmanuel Nzai, the Chief Executive Officer of The Jumuiya ya Kaunti za Pwani Secretariat said the bloc is focusing on unlocking the Blue economy value chains through innovation and technology is key to this ambition. "The Jumuiya ya Kaunti za Pwani Regional Economic Block seeks to jumpstart the socio-economic transformation of the region by helping increase the yields and efficiency of the efforts of the Coastal citizen's efforts in all the economic activities they seek to undertake and thereby increasing their incomes and hence improving their quality of life," Nzai said. Nzai added that during the Pwani Innovation Week, they will be looking to build solutions, concepts and ideas to solve the coastal challenges by riding on technology to help solve some of the pressing issues facing the Coastal people. County members to Jumuiya include Mombasa, Kwale, Kilifi, Tana River, Lamu and Taita Taveta. It is focused on championing the Kenya coast regional economic development initiatives through innovation and partnership with the public, industry and academia. There are six trade blocs in the country including North Rift Economic Bloc(NOREB), Frontier Counties Development Council(FCDC), Lake Region Economic Bloc(LREB), Mt Kenya and Aberdare and South Eastern Kenya economic bloc.