A US-based company that won a Sh25.5 billion contract to supply leased medical gadgets was awarded the tender unprocedurally, a Senate committee said on Monday. The ad hoc committee investigating the Sh63 billion Managed Equipment Service project heard the General Electrics was awarded the tender against the set conditions. The Isiolo Senator Fatuma Dullo-led committee heard that the contract was signed by Farid Fezoua, the President and Chief Executive Officer of GE Healthcare Africa, who are neither suppliers nor manufacturers of the equipment. According to the committee, GE Healthcare Africa is a trading entity. The Ministry of Health had indicated in the advertisement for tenders that only manufactures of the products should apply. Appearing before the committee, GE's Chief Finance Officer Shan Glover and CEO Brenda Mbathi were at pains to explain why they signed the multibillion contract with the ministry yet they were not manufacturers. “We expected those who were awarded the contract should be manufacturers. If they were not, they should have given us the power of the attorney that allowed them to sign on the behalf of their mother company,” Senator Dullo ruled. The company was contracted to supply theatre equipment, theatre instrument and CSSD, renal equipment, radiology equipment and ICU equipment. The General Electric of USA was to supply radiology equipment where 98 hospitals were expected to be equipped with digital X-rays, ultrasound and other imaging equipment. But the committee has revealed that radiology equipment has been installed in 97 out of 98 facilities for which it was earmarked. However, 19 counties remain unable to benefit from the services owing to a variety of reasons including lack of requisite staff and insufficient water and electricity. They include Bomet, Busia, Elgeyo Marakwet, Isiolo, Kakamega, Kitui, Kwale, Makueni, Meru, Migori, Narok, Nyamira, Samburu, Siaya, Tana River, Tharaka Nithi, Trans Nzoia, Turkana and West Pokot. It also emerged during the meeting that the taxpayers could have forked up to eight times the market price for the equipment supplied. “We have done our research and found out that for ultrasound, GE charged us $233, 572.42  against the market price of $31, 474. For mamograph, we paid $629,729.79 instead of $156, 666,” Dullo said. The committee sent the directors away for the fourth time in a row and threatened to compile its report without the company's defence. Edited by R.Wamochie