Over 40 women leaders from the Inua Mama movement have disputed the recently released results of the 2019 census by Kenya National Bureau of Statistics. The women from various political parties said the census results did not reflect the true population. Chairlady Alice Wahome, MP for Kandara constituency in Murang'a, said Bungoma county has a huge population but this was not reflected in the census results. She said Bungoma has a high fertility rate and many families are polygamous. Wahome asked women in the county to come out and seek political office. "We will come to Bungoma again three more times before the 2022 polls and urge women to stand tall and not fear tossing themselves into political arena," she said The women drummed up support for empowerment of women and girls. They promised to support the BBI report if it will advocate for the welfare of women. "Let us look at what that BBI thing has to offer. If it has any good things for women we will definitely back it but if it looks down upon women who are the engine of the community we will have no choice but to shoot it down," she said. The leaders condemned the violence witnessed at the by-election in Kibra against  Jubilee leaders. "We in this era of a new Constitution can't allow someone to profile places and regions calling a constituency his bedroom," Nakuru Woman Rep Liza Chelule. The women called for peaceful politicking to avert tension ahead of the 2022 polls. They spoke at Webuye Pan Paper stadium in Bungoma where they distributed tents and cheques to women's groups across the 45 wards. They lauded Bungoma assembly for having 24 women representatives and urged more women to go for elective seats in the 2022 polls. "We would like to congratulate your Senator Moses Wetangula who has encouraged and  made many women to be leaders in a world where women are seen as people who ought to be in the kitchen," Elgeiyo Marakwet Woman Rep Jane Chebaibai said. Bungoma Woman Rep Catherine Wambilianga asked men to stop defiling schoolgirls and called for arrest of perpetrators. She asked parents to watch over their children during this holiday to prevent them from engaging in vices.