The Teachers Service Commission would like to respond to Amos Orina’s letter which appeared in the Star on October 28 titled ‘TSC flouting laws at the disadvantage of hardworking tutors’. First, the writer asserts that TSC scrapped monthly medical allowances for teachers. But on the contrary, the commission introduced a comprehensive medical cover in 2015 to enable teachers to provide quality service. Put differently, the medical cover which teachers have benefitted from for the last couple of years is far more superior to the previous medical allowances.  Indeed, the commission has advertised a tender for the teachers’ medical cover for 2019-22 which is in the last stage of completion. That is to say that TSC has taken steps to ensure teachers have access to quality and affordable healthcare. This is also in line with the government’s Big Four agenda of the provision of Universal Health Coverage. This will propel them to remain productive in their profession. In the same letter, the writer asserts that TSC threatens the quality of teaching through the implementation of the 2017-21 CBA which allegedly saw P1 administrators earn twice or thrice better pay than degree holders. This is a fallacy. TSC–in consultation with the Salaries and Remuneration Commission–conducted a job evaluation for teaching service in 2015-16. The Job Evaluation was the basis of CBA 2017-21. It is in light of the above developments, administrative positions became substantive appointments and the administrative responsibilities were recognised hence given commensurate remuneration. As pertains to payment of pensions for teachers in the 1997 Nakuru court case, the commission wishes to state that it has not flouted any laws at the expense of tutors. Indeed, work is on course to process these teachers’ pensions as there are only a few cases being processed. However, it is imperative to note that teachers pension is paid by the National Treasury and the role of TSC is in just processing of the claims. This, therefore, means that the onus of the commission is to document the retiree’s employment history which includes age, date of employment, promotions, remunerations and any other period(s) the teacher went without pay. The rest is done by the government.  Corporate communications officer, TSC