At least $50 million (Sh5.1 billion) in economic output is lost by Kenyan businesses each year as a result of work absences related to domestic abuse, a KPGM report shows. Commissioned by mobile telephony firm Vodafone, the report estimates that more than half a million (505,000) working women have taken time off work because of domestic abuse in the past year, eating into their employers' time and profits. Covering  107 countries, the study shows six per cent of the women workforce in the countries have witnessed physical or sexual abuse on their workforce in the past 12 months or 19 per cent over their lifetime. Kenya is however better off compared to other African countries, with the continental average for 12 month and lifetime estimated at 23 and 33 per cent respectively. According to the survey, nearly two million (1.97million ) working women have experienced domestic violence and abuse over this period. ''While victims suffer physical and emotional loses, employers incur huge financial losses in loss of time and general productivity,'' the study says. The report - published ahead of the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women - reveals the damaging impact of domestic abuse on careers and businesses globally. At least 80 million working women across 107 countries - a figure equating to approximately 15 per cent of the female workforce - have experienced domestic violence and abuse in the past 12 months. More than one third (38 per cent) of victims surveyed said they suffered from reduced productivity, and 22 per cent said they sometimes stopped going to work and/or would take days off. Four million women also missed out on a promotion as a result of domestic violence and abuse - suffering a related annual average salary loss of $2,900 per woman. This equates to approximately $13 billion in total potential earnings lost each year across those nine countries. Across nine countries, Kenya included, an estimated $13 billion a year is lost in potential earnings for victims of domestic abuse across the working population. Other countries sampled includes UK, Germany, South Africa, India, Ireland, Italy, Spain and Turkey. Locally, Safaricom Plc has partnered with Healthcare Association Kenya a Non-Governmental Organisation that operates a Sexual and Gender Based Violence rapid response call centre. “As part of our partnership with Healthcare Association Kenya we have zero-rated their toll-free line (1195) enabling quick access to services such as nearest hospitals and police stations as well as psychological support to victims,'' Safaricam CEO Micheal Joesph said.