HAS the leadership of Musalia Mudavadi’s ANC party abandoned its plan to kick out a legislator from the outfit? Well, an insider has intimated to Corridors that the party has beat a hasty retreat on its decision to remove the vocal legislator for working with Raila Odinga’s ODM. The leadership is said to have learnt that kicking out the vocal first term legislator from the outfit would have dire consequences that could cripple the party. First, the party would lose key leadership positions in Parliament that was donated to it by ODM. The move would also benefit the Raila’s party as it would automatically fill the positions. A renowned tycoon from a county in Nyanza is baying for the blood of a first term MP from the region. Reason? The man, who runs a Construction Company, is accusing the legislator of fleecing him Sh500, 000. Recently, the man told some politician from the county that he gave the lawmaker the money to facilitate a meeting with the area governor to seal a business deal. However, the meeting has never materialized and the legislator no longer answers his phone calls. The man has now launched a manhunt for the vocal lawmaker and has vowed to teach him a lesson. A nominated female Senator has set tongues wagging in Parliament. Reason? The Jubilee legislator has developed a habit of ‘making technical’ appearances in House committees only to sign attendance list for purposes of earning sitting allowance. Rarely does she spend five minutes in a committee. Interestingly, after signing the list, she is seen hanging around Parliament corridors and enjoying herself in the members’ canteen. Last week, her colleagues were overheard discussing her conduct. One of the members threatened to move a motion to discuss her conduct on the floor of the House. RECENTLY, we told you about residents of a ward in Nairobi that woke up to human waste dumped all over the place owing to the ongoing wrangles in Nairobi government pitting Governor Mike Sonko, speaker Beatrice Elachi and MCAs. Now, the corridors has learnt that all kiosks put up by MCAs opposed to Elachi’s return have been marked ‘X’ for demolition. Ironically, the kiosks were constructed by the current county administration less than two years ago to help create jobs for the youth women in the city. The ward reps, according to insiders, are now planning to move to court to block the imminent demolition.