The Independent Police Oversight Authority (IPOA) has said at least 22 students from JKUAT were seriously injured by police during protests on Monday. The authority on Tuesday said it has further identified all the 50 police officers who were involved in the operation. Chairperson Anne Makori in a statement to newsrooms said based on these preliminary findings, the authority will advance the matter into a full independent investigation with a view of unravelling all the facts of the matter. She said that the four police officers who were captured on video brutalising one of the students have all been interdicted. Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai had earlier on said  internal disciplinary processes will follow recommendations by the Internal Affairs Unit investigation. "Nairobi police service has said that the four officers who were caught on camera meting excessive violence on a JKUAT student have been identified and consequently interdicted from service as per police procedures," read a statement by the IG. Interior CS Fred Matiang'i said he had observed the events at JKUAT with profound concern, maintaining that the use of force by police is clearly outlined in the National Police Standing Orders. "I have spoken to the IG and we both agree that firm and decisive action shall be taken against any officer who used excessive force, within the next 24 hours," Matiang'i said. The officers engaged in the brutality as they sought to restore order after JKUAT students rioted and blocked the Thika Superhighway. The students had engaged Juja police in running battles for two hours, during which motorists could not pass through the town. The learners accused the law enforcers of not protecting them from criminals. They claimed that knife-wielding criminals waylaid them from 6pm and robbed them of cash, phones and laptops. The university was closed via a memo from the acting Deputy vice chancellor in charge of academic affairs. IPOA’s Makori said the authority has made contact and taken statements from key eyewitnesses. “The investigation findings will be applied against provisions of Section 61(1& 2), 88 (3 & 4), and the Sixth Schedule of the National Police Service Act, 2011, which provide for the use of force, firearms," Makori said. The Act also spells responsibilities of senior officers, disciplinary offences, the Service Standing Orders and any other laws of Kenya to inform appropriate recommendations.