 Patients owe Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital more than Sh1.5 billion, according to CEO  Wilson Aruasa. Aruasa said the debt has accumulated concurrently with the healthcare challenges Kenyans face. The second-largest referral hospital in the country waives Sh30 million bills per month for patients who cannot afford treatment. The CEO appreciated the NHIF programme as it helps many patients to access healthcare. He said the hospital campaigns actively to have many people join the national health insurer. He said Kenyans will access better health care under the Universal Health Care programme. “With the implementation of UHC many Kenyans will be able to access healthcare and we will cut down on the cost and number of those travelling out to seek medication,” Aruasa told the Star in Eldoret. The hospital has upgraded its health services to include specialised surgeries, kidney transplants and open-heart surgeries. Two weeks ago the Eldoret-based hospital carried out 20 plastic surgeries on burns' victims. One kidney transplant will be performed weekly. The hospital has also upgraded and expanded its High Dependency and ICU units to handle emergency cases. The number of ICU units has increased from six to 20. The upgrade is in line with the government's UHC programme, Dr Aruasa said. He said they were intensifying outreach services during which county health personnel will be trained to enable Kenyans to access specialised health services. “We are fully committed to supporting President Kenyatta’s Big Four Agenda especially on healthcare by closely collaborating with the Ministry of Health and other stakeholders.” The hospital treats more than 1,200 patients in the outpatient and emergency units daily. On average, it admits 1,300 patients. Aruasa said consultations with regional counties were ongoing with the intention to reduce the number of cases referred to the hospital. MTRH has an outreach of 22 counties. It also receives patients from neighbouring countries. The hospital, which hosts the Chandaria Cancer Centre, also handles a high number of cancer patients from neighbouring countries. Aruasa said the hospital is part of a joint initiative spearheaded by the Ministry of Health under which its staff and experts will be visiting remote parts of the country to offer services to Kenyans and train medical staff in such areas. 