 Siaya county commissioner Michael ole Tialal has faulted police investigating the murder of journalist Eric Oloo, saying they were lying. Oloo was last week found murdered in the house of policewoman Sabina Kerubo who was arrested alongside her daughter and househelp. Two brothers were also arrested. The brothers were on Monday arraigned before a Siaya magistrate and detained for 11 days pending investigations. But the family has questioned why Kerubo has not been taken to court. On Monday, Tialal said Kerubo would be arraigned on Tuesday but the Ugunja deputy OCS was not taken to court again. On Tuesday, Tialal said he had learned that police were misleading him and that Kerubo had not bee arrested. “I have realised that the police are lying to me. I have my intelligence that shows they what to use Kerubo as a state witness and that is why they have not arrested her,” Tialal said. The administrator said he had directed that Kerubo be arrested and taken to court. “Let her be presented to the court and when the court sees that she is fit to be a witness let the directive come from the court, not her fellow police officers,” he said. Tialal spoke on the phone. He said he was in Nairobi on official duty. “I don’t like the cat and mouse games the police are playing with the case under the guise of protecting their own," Tialal said Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi blamed police for slow investigations into the murder. In a statement on Tuesday, Wandayi said he has been following developments surrounding the murder and that he was not confident investigations will yield fruits. “I wish to state that, so far, these investigations have not inspired confidence in the public. Patience among the public is fast waning and tension is, understandably, building up not only in Ugunja but across Siaya county over this matter,” Wandayi said. The MP demanded direct involvement of the DCI boss George Kinoti and the deployment of homicide experts to unravel what transpired. “The public, therefore, rightfully deserves to know the truth about Oloo's death. Anything else will be totally unacceptable," Wandayi said. Oloo's family has promised to ensure justice is done. “It is imperative that this dastardly act of murder is resolved speedily and the real culprits arraigned in court,” Wandayi said.  edited by p. obuya