A section of Central-Kenya leaders are pushing President Uhuru Kenyatta to give the region a freehand to work with former Prime Minister Raila Odinga. There is a behind-the-scenes push for the President to cobble up a political alliance with Raila, amid signals that the Jubilee marriage is at rock bottom. Just this week, Deputy President William Ruto and his lieutenants threatened to scuttle the Building Bridges Initiative report, from which Uhuru hopes to secure his legacy. Those behind the push believe that Central Kenya's political bargain in 2022 would be most guaranteed if the region embraces Raila as opposed to backing the DP. It is understood that the push is informed by jitters over Jubilee's uncertain future owing to factional infighting, the DP's perceived rebellion against the President and fears that Ruto could be shopping for a running-mate outside Central Kenya. Yesterday, Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru said while Mt Kenya leaders were patiently waiting for Uhuru's nod for such a political arrangement, such an alliance would guarantee peace, stability and inclusivity. “It is true that an alliance with Raila would be good for Kenya as it would bring into the political fold a substantial part of Kenya much of which has felt excluded from national leadership,” Waiguru said. She added: “Such an alliance must of course include leaders of other Kenyan regions so that the 2022 leadership reflects the true face of Kenya.” Owing to the country's political history and the dynamics of the Jubilee party, Waiguru said, some political leaders from central Kenya have been hesitant to fully embrace Raila despite the handshake. “Many would hope for an unequivocal nod from the President so that they determine their political direction,” she said, although she noted it’s still too early to talk about 2022 political alliances. The focus now is ensuring that we leave a legacy of development, uplifting Kenyans and investing in the peace and unity that this legacy requires, Waiguru said. Waiguru, a former fierce critic of Raila, has been hobnobbing with the opposition leader after making up in private talks at his Capitol Hill offices in November last year. On his part, Murang'a senator Irungu Kang'ata-a key ally of the President-confirmed to the Star that indeed there is growing pressure for the region to enter into a working relationship with Raila. “There is that push to have the region embrace Raila. There are moves towards that but you know the President has not told us officially on what to do. We wait to see if that would crystallise,” the Senate Deputy Majority Whip said. Indicative of the simmering alliance, a section of politicians and businessmen from Uhuru's turf mooting the idea held preparatory talks on Wednesday night at a Nairobi Hotel. Details of the discussions remained scanty, but the Star understands that at least seven MPs, 12 ex-lawmakers and 14 high-flying businessmen from the region attended the meeting at Nairobi's Panafric Hotel. A former MP who attended the meeting said talks were at nascent stages to build a Central Kenya-Nyanza alliance to take on Ruto in 2022. Such a political arrangement took the country by a storm when Raila backed ex-President Mwai Kibaki in 2002 to vanquish Kanu 24-year stranglehold on power. The leaders are said to be keen in involving the Kikuyu elders at a later stage, who would in turn work closely with their counterparts from the Luo community to firm up the alliance. “It is too early for me to divulge any details but expect what we are working on be a major Tsunami that would crash some elements who think that they must be President of Kenya no matter what,” a former legislator who attended the meeting but who did not want to be identified said. Since President Uhuru and Raila declared a political truce manifested by the handshake deal, Raila's influence has been growing immensely both in government circles and even in Uhuru's central Kenya backyard. Yesterday, former Mukwereini MP Kabando Wa Kabando said a “UhuruRao alliance would be indefatigable.” “UhuruRao is insurmountable mission to unite Kenya and crash corruption and impunity,” he told the Star in a scathing attack on Ruto. “BBI is an enduring bridge to reconciliation and national prosperity. This is a dream for a new Kenya. It goes beyond any one region.” Raila has been hosting dozens of delegations of leaders from Mt Kenya at his office and has also attended high profile state meetings and other events within the region in what has triggered speculations of a possible alliance. His larger than life stature despite holding no formal government position has rattled Ruto's camp and further exacerbated the already deteriorating Uhuru-Ruto relationship as the 2022 political dynamics appear to shift in favour of him. Just this week, the pro-Ruto camp has bitterly lamented that they were terrorized in Kibra as state machinery watched, signaling the power shift. Ruto claims Raila is scheming to decimate Jubilee. “Waheshimiwa, the real saboteur is your master, the people's conman who uses deceit to divide/destroy parties even Uhuru’s Jubilee; the master of chaos who factors violence in election equations; the one who never accepts defeat. We'll stand with Uhuru and Jubilee against such dictators,” Ruto said on Wednesday. He was responding to the pro handshake MPs who have accused him of sabotaging the Presidnet's agenda and openly called for his resignation. A section of Mt Kenya politicians coalescing around the Kieleweke faction of the Jubilee party as well as the Embrace women league has been traversing the country supporting the Uhuru-Raila unity deal. Last June, the Kikuyu council of elders endorsed the handshake with some asking Ruto to retire. The council lashed out at Ruto whom they accused of failing to 'control' his presidential ambitions and respect Uhuru.” Munga said Ruto should instead concentrate on helping the President manage the affairs of the nation. “It is very disheartening to see the 2022 succession politics taking centre stage led by none other than DP Ruto with others who should be working with the very electorate who put them in office,” they said.