Is his name Paul or Cedric? This is the question Kenyans are grappling with in the latest twist to the London stowaway saga. This is after a Facebook profile of 'Cedric Junior' emerged full with photos that were used by Sky News to identify Paul Manyasi as the stowaway. In yet another twist, the parents of Paul Manyasi according to Sky News are Isaac and Janet Manyasi. But according to a birth certificate seen by the Star, Cedric's parents are Isaac and Janet Shivonje. So what is the truth? Who is lying to who? Earlier on Wednesday, Issac Manyasi, who appeared on a story by Sky News confirming the identity of the stowaway changed his narrative. He had told Sky News that his son 'Paul' was the man whose body fell from a plane into a London neighbourhood in June. But on being asked about it by KTN News, Issac said  that his son, who he called Cedric, was alive and in Nairobi. Isaac Manyasi had told Sky News in an exclusive investigative segment , that they had not heard from his son Paul for the longest time. Isaac further noted that his own son was known as Cedric Isaac Shivonje and not Paul as widely reported. But who is this Stowaway? According to Cedric's Facebook page, he last changed his profile picture on July 14, 2019. That profile photo was used by Sky News in their news story about getting the identity of the stowaway. But the stowaway was discovered in South London on June 30, 2019. Begging the question, if this is Paul or Cedric, who changed his Facebook account after his body was found? According to FB, Cedric is a student at Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology. He went to Tande High School and lives in Nairobi South contrary to reports that he lives Mukuru kwa Njenga. He hails from Kakamega  county and is single. Reports on Sky News noted that Paul was having a girlfriend, but Cedric seems to be having no girlfriend as per his Facebook page. The stowaway's body is being held at a London mortuary. His death is not being treated as suspicious and an inquest will be held after police close investigations.