Senate Speaker Ken Lusaka has told Bungoma Governor Wycliffe Wangamati to stop attacking him in public and instead concentrate on serving his people. “I am tired of being attacked and demeaned by Bungoma governor and his staff, let them concentrate on services rather than making me their topic every day, “ Lusaka said on Thursday. He spoke during an interview on Bukusu radio station Sulwe Fm. Lusaka said he played his role while serving as Bungoma governor and his clear development record should be respected. “I am not in any way linked to Wangamati's failure to deliver services,” he said. The Senate speaker attributed the attacks and provocation to the fear that he might be eyeing Wangamati's seat in 2022. “I am dedicating my time to the national function of serving Kenyans. I have not fought county leaders but they are attacking and provoking me everywhere in public meetings, ostensibly to create fear among my supporters,” he said. The governor's Communications director Tim Machi said, "The Senate speaker is Wangamati's boss and we don't want to engage him. For now, we better say 'no comment'". Wangamati has recently accused Lusaka of sabotaging his leadership by sponsoring his opponents but Lusaka has denied the claims. Lusaka, who was the first Bungoma governor from 2013 to 2017, prided himself on creating many projects, amongst them the Misikhu-Brigadier Road, revamping of the Bungoma and Kimilili town roads, among other feeder roads. “I wrote to World Bank to help raise our towns into municipalities in July 2017 before Wangamati had been elected but I am happy that he has implemented the same projects," he said. "Wangamati should stop mentioning the [Sh1 million apiece] Wheelbarrow saga and concentrate on delivering services." There has been talk that Lusaka could recapture the seat. The speculations have been fueled by reported falling out between Wangamati and Ford Kenya party leader Moses Wetang'ula. Wangamati was elected on a Ford Kenya ticket. But residents claim he's shifted his allegiance to Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa whose allies have formed a new political party, the Democratic Action Party. On the Building Bridges Initiative report released on Wednesday, Lusaka said he supports it "even though it is full of politics". “The document is good, we will read it and advise our people accordingly. It is political in nature because the change of governance system and the creation of elected positions tells it all. Let's read and digest it so that we can make informed decisions." Edited by R.Wamochie