Kenya Airways (KQ) and regional airline, Safarilink Aviation have signed a one-way codeshare agreement to open up Kenya touring sites and tap more to global travellers into the national carrier. The agreement will have KQ include 18 remote Safarilink destinations in Kenya and Tanzania, in their global sales and distribution network. The agreement also intends to combine the national carrier's travel experience between respective international destinations and Safarilink’s direct flights to safari and unique beach destinations. “This partnership will also allow tour operators and travel agencies to create unique holiday packages connecting from Jomo Kenyatta International Airport to Wilson Airport and eventually to their respective safari destinations, which is a great convenience to them,” KQ chief executive officer Sebastian Mikosz said. “Sales will start in the course of the coming weeks before November 30, 2019,” KQ said in a statement. KQ will place its codeshare flight numbers on the Safarilink flights so that customers from international destinations can book their full safari experience directly via KQ holidays or tour operators and travel agents. It will provide daily scheduled flights that will provide convenient access to the eleven airstrips in Maasai Mara and direct flights to Amboseli, Samburu, Lamu, Zanzibar, Ukunda, Vipingo, Kilimanjaro, Tsavo, Lodwar, Kitale, Lake Naivasha, Laikipia, Lewa downs, Olpajeta, Loisaba, Nanyuki and, Mt. Kenya, avoiding road transport. “We are very pleased to be entering into this significant partnership which will provide seamless connection of passengers from the KQ network straight into Kenya and Tanzania’s world-famous parks. We are delighted that KQ chose us on account of our commitment to safety and quality,” Safarilink Aviation chief executive officer Alex Avedi said. This codeshare agreement came as KQ marked its first-anniversary celebratory flight to New York. KQ’s other international destinations include Bangkok, Dubai, Guangzhou, Mumbai, Amsterdam, London, Geneva, Rome and Paris.