First, I have been a big critic. I have not hesitated to express some initial concerns when this journey of the BBI started. But I am happy that we are here today because there is a moment that we can seize to correct the shortcomings that were there in the initial stage. This is a significant day. The second point that I would like to make is that let us be sober in this discussion. Let us interrogate the document. I don't want someone to read the document for me. I want to read it myself. I hope every Kenyan will today rise up to the occasion and say I am making a decision today because I have read the document and not because Musalia Mudavadi has read it for me. We want to make very serious decisions going forward. The debate must be sober. The debate must be all-inclusive. We must listen to each other. We must be persuaded by the logic of the other idea but not by how much the other person has shouted. That is the way we are going to build a better Kenya. Let us not build people in silos. Every Kenyan has a right to speak to this document so that we can all find long-lasting solutions. Kenya has a poor history when it comes to matters constitutional. We have histories of mutilating our Constitution to the extent that what you start with you don't recognise it many years later. Let us be careful on how we handle the process henceforth. Your excellency, you have a big challenge. Listening to the earlier speeches here, let us not convert the BBI document to a political elite document. Everyone here is talking about sharing political seats. What about motivating the civil servant? What about motivating the teacher? What about motivating the private sector? We are beginning to fall into the same trap that even makes it look like BBI is about sharing political positions. My understanding is that BBI is bigger than sharing political positions. Can we focus as Kenyans, get there and let us all interrogate? The economy. What is ailing us is the economy! Kenya is among the few countries that you can call a political rally at Uhuru Park during a working day and it would be full because of the unemployment.