DCI boss George Kinoti on Monday was on the spot for the delayed investigation into a sex tape linked to Wajir Woman Representative Fatuma Gedi. She dismissed as fake the tape that went viral in December last year. Since Gedi made a formal complaint with the DCI in February this year, the file has been gathering dust. DCI chief George Kinoti appeared before the Powers and Privileges Committee on Monday. Detectives have cited ‘impediments’ in having four MPs record statements, though they have been identified as persons of interest in connection with the circulation of the tape. The DCI officer investigating the tape had zeroed in on the four lawmakers for alleged connections. They are  Eldas MP Aden Keynan, Abdihakim Mohamed of Fafi constituency, Isiolo Woman Representative Rehema Jaldesa and her Kirinyaga counterpart Wangui Ngirici. They were named publicly on Monday by committee chairman Justin Muturi, the National Assembly Speaker. Blogger Douglas Mbaya was arrested last year and arraigned in Nairobi for allegedly circulating the video. DCI George Kinoti, who appeared before the committee, said failure to have the four MPs record statements undermined the probe. MPs on the powerful committee asked why it has taken the DCI seven months to have the four MPs record statements with the police. The DCI first wrote to the Clerk of National Assembly on February 21 asking him to facilitate the MPs' appearance at CID headquarters on Kiambu road. The clerk turned down the request, saying the House does not interfere in matters of a criminal nature unrelated to official House business. Kinoti said the probe stalled at that point. Angry MPs turned up the heat on the country's top investigator, demanding to know what held back the DCI from compelling the lawmakers to record statements. They accused Kinoti’s office of being a stumbling block in the investigation. "Nothing prevents you from proceeding to call these four members to share what they know in line with the intelligence that you already had," Muturi said. "Do you suggest that you are powerless as the DCI? How come these four MPs are [so much] more powerful that they cannot be compelled to record statements?" Changamwe MP Omar Mwinyi asked. The lawmakers also questioned conflicting letters from the DCI’s office to the clerk regarding the sex-tape investigations. On February 21 letter, the DCI requesting the Clerk’s help in having the four MPs record statements. That letter was overruled, however, by another on July 26 from DCI, advising the clerk to ignore the first letter as it was not sanctioned by the DCI. The committee is also investigating how confidential letters between the Clerk’s office and the DCI were leaked to the media. (Edited by V. Graham)