This report is good only to the extent that it has started a conversation we should have as a country on the reform agenda. That is all. Beyond starting a conversation, there is nothing. Whatever is contained in the report is too much ado about nothing contrary to the expectations of many Kenyans who presented their views to the task force. Our expectations were higher than what we have been given in the report. For example, it was intended to rationalize inclusivity so that we resolve the perception of the winner takes all. The Prime Minister office they have proposed is borrowed from the Tanzanian model and will not resolve the issue of exclusion because the PM will still be an appointee of the President and most likely will come from a party that will form the government. With the report having weak recommendations on how to deal with the long-standing issue of exclusion-the winner takes all- even the good recommendations on other issues have been overshadowed by the choice of a weak PM. Tribalism, corruption and lack of national ethos are as a result of poor governance systems that have entrenched all these evils. We cannot achieve cohesion or win the war on corruption unless we fully address the issue of inclusivity. What the task force has done is like building a nice house for a needy person but in it, there is no food which first of all should have been addressed. That person will not enjoy living in the house. The proposal for the re-introduction of the Prime Minister position requires a referendum. You cannot alter the structure of the government without taking it to the people to decide. In essence, this report should be relooked at and Kenyans given an opportunity to make further suggestions on what should be amended. The country is very very broke. We cannot talk of building a beach house and you are a squatter. We are now at the mercy of the International Monetary Fund. We must address the issue of corruption; the country is going through tough economic times because of wanton wastage and theft of public resources. We have the issue of unemployment and the massive layoffs companies have been announcing. These are some of the issues that report should have provided practical ways to resolve. The former National Assembly deputy speaker speaker spoke to The Star