So, I happened to have listened to Tuesday morning's discussion on Classic 105 by Maina Kageni and Mwalimu King'ang'i. The duo’s main topic was the sharp contrast between the breed of women leaders Kenya has been blessed to have in the past, who fought for their place and earned it, and the new crop who have found themselves in the limelight thanks to affirmative action that created the Women Rep positions. Obviously, they drew reference from the now common reckless statements that are supposedly meant to be populist by a section of women leaders. In Kenya's political history, the names of Prof Wangari Maathai, Charity Ngilu, Martha Karua, Lina Jebii Kilimo and others will always be remembered and for good reasons. Despite the obvious fact that they earned their positions in a male dominated political field and the controversies that come with politics, they stood for something and held high the dignity of women. Also, they had a political maturity that inspired many of the current politicians to seek leadership. Many years after the demise of Prof Wangari Maathai (RIP) her name pops up whenever issues of environmental conservation come up. As a young lady from Tetu where she hailed from, I can proudly admit that she inspired me to see beyond my own plans and ambitions, and to be at a position to impact on the lives of others. Fast forward to the present and so much has changed and worryingly, not for the better. Women are often sadly the victims of sexual attacks. Women leaders should be at the forefront of speaking for sexual dignity. However, it’s despicable that they are the very first to use it as their arsenal against others and for momentary applause. When a Woman Representative reduces her politics to dwell on circumcision and not any meaningful discussion, when an elected woman leader takes to the podium to insult other women on having children, their families and husbands, then we should see the warning signs early enough. When such happen and are allowed to continue as the accepted norm, we are letting affirmative action down and reversing on the gains made by pioneer women leaders in Kenya. Despite being anchored in the 2010 constitution,  Kenya’s parliament and many state organs are yet to meet the minimum requirement  for the two thirds gender rule. For this Constitutional provision to be a reality, those already in positions, be they elected, nominated or appointment, must walk the high road and convince even the fiercest critics that women leaders will bring an agenda to the table and not just their gender. We are at a make or break point with regards to women leadership.  I urge my sisters already holding positions to make a desirable path for more to follow. Agnes is a businesswoman and proponent of social change