An Administration Police constable has been arrested two years after defiling and impregnating his wife's cousin, who is a minor, in West Pokot. The girl, who was 14 years old and in class six at the time, had gone to visit her cousin in December, 2017, and had been left to take care of her cousin's four children. "Neither my cousin nor her husband was at home when the children went to sleep. When he came home, he woke her up to serve him food and that's when he defiled her," said the victim's brother. He spoke to the Star on phone and added the accused AP constable threatened to kill the minor if she resisted. She did not report the matter to anyone until her cousin started suspecting she was pregnant. Upon confrontation, the girl told her cousin what had happened and the matter was reported at Kacheliba Police Station in July 2018 under OB No. 12/20/07/2018. The cop was not immediately arrested after the matter was reported to the police. "We would see him in town still in uniform and he said there was nothing we could do to him because he was protected," he said. According to the girl's brother, the constable had affiliations with a local politician who helped keep him out of jail. The family then reached out to the Federation of Women Lawyers Kenya to push for the arrest of the accused. Dorcas Endoo, the lawyer handling the case, said despite pushing for it, the constable kept dodging arrest and tracing him also became a problem. "He also wanted the family to have an out of court settlement which I advised against because this was a sexual assault case," said Endoo. Endoo added that dealing with officers was also a problem and she eventually lost contact with the victim's family. The current advocate on the case, Robert Katina, also said getting the officer arrested proved difficult and the case had stagnated. Following pressure from lobby groups and the family, the case file was forwarded to the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions Kapenguria office. The case file numbered Kacheliba CR.841/62/2018 Defilement C/S 8(4) of SOA recommended the arrest of the police constable. Calls to the office of the DPP went unanswered, however, the Star learned that the office had requested for an official complaint of the case. The girl gave birth in September, 2018, at Kacheliba Sub-county hospital and is currently back in school. "The officers at Kacheliba had refused to give us the clinical notes which they took saying it was evidence. My sister is however back to school and is a potential candidate," said the brother. Her child is in the care of their mother. Katina said the accused is currently at Kapenguria prison and will be charged in court tomorrow. "We will be in court to see whether he will receive a bond but we do not want that to happen," he said.