Governor Jackson Mandago intends to raise revenue collection to Sh2 billion annually through corporations (yet-to-be-established) to manage key county sectors. The corporations will be the first in the devolved units to manage revenue collection, housing and roads. Currently, the county collects Sh1 billion annually which, Mandago says, should be doubled for his administration to operate effectively. Revenue collection is automated but one of the planned corporations – a localised Kenya Revenue Authority – will ensure more funds are raised and well managed. “Such corporations are allowed in law and what we are working on is the necessary legal framework which we require to ensure that they are operational,” Mandago said yesterday. He was addressing members of the new Uasin Gishu County Public Service Board (CPSB) in his office. The governor said the county needs legal guidelines on how to harness resources to widen revenue collection. “We can have several county parastatals but for them to be fully functional and efficient in generating revenue there must be a legal framework to dispense their mandates as semi-autonomous entities,” he said. The county also intends to set up a County Housing Corporation to complement the national government’s housing agenda. Another corporation will manage roads and county water equipment. “The corporation will ensure the machinery is used optimally for the county to get value for money and at the same time offer services to the public,” Mandago said. The county has invested more than Sh2 billion in modern road machinery and water equipment. “If we can establish a Mechanical and Transport Corporation, the county can generate money as the machines will be put into proper use,” Mandago said. Such machines will also be hired to commercial entrepreneurs to raise revenue. The county's Agriculture Machinery Services, Agriculture Training College at Chebororwa and Eldoret Water and Sanitation Company (Eldowas) are some of the units which will be fully operational corporations. The new PSB will be chaired by Francisca Boen with Paul Lagat as her deputy. The secretary is William Koech while other members are Robert Tatache, Elseba Maseh, Robert Kosilbet and Lilliam Kimulany.  