President Uhuru Kenyatta’s diary is fully booked this week dimming chances of him receiving the BBI report. It was widely expected that the President and his handshake partner ODM leader Raila Odinga would to receive the much-awaited report this week after the conclusion of the Kibra by-election on Friday last week. The Building Bridges Initiative task force, which completed writing the report three weeks ago, had said they 'had already received word that the handover will be scheduled at the first available opportunity'. "We have officially communicated to the Office of the President that the BBI report is ready for handing over to the President," the statement signed by BBI joint secretaries Paul Mwangi and Martin Kimani read in part. The delay in submitting the report to the two leaders comes amid reports that some recommendations 'could be stepped down'. According to multiple sources familiar with the developments, some of the recommendations are being redacted as they are said to have the potential to plunge the country into political divisions. Already, Mt Kenya region leaders have issued a warning that they will not support the report if it recommends a shift from the current presidential to a parliamentary system. It is understood that the President is on Wednesday morning expected to hold back-to-back bilateral meetings with visiting presidents, who are attending ICPD25 Conference. In the first meeting at 9:30am, Uhuru will meet Seychelles President Danny Faure, who arrived on Monday night. Afterward, Uhuru is set to meet Antigua and Barbuda Prime Minister Gaston Alfonso Browne. From 10:30am, the President is set to meet Costa Rica Vice President Epsy Campell Barr and later host Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni for the last meeting of the day. On Thursday morning, President Kenyatta is expected to meet Thomes Petrricek, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Czech Republic. On Friday, Uhuru is expected to open a regional summit on youth unemployment. Edited by R.Wamochie