A senior prosecutor was last Friday confronted by a robbery with violence suspect at a Nairobi court for allegedly asking "irrelevant " questions. The state counsel who was in his blue shirt and a black trouser was attacked immediately after he inquired from the suspect whether he had a wife. "Tell the court if by the time of arrest you had a wife or whether you were in a relationship, " the prosecutor asked. In a quick response, the suspect told the state counsel to explain to him if his wife and marriage issues were related to the case. She asked the magistrate to intervene in the matter, saying the prosecutor could have been compromised by the complainant. "Your honour, I wonder why a senior officer from the DPP's office can ask and stress me with such a question. The question does not relate to my case in any way,"he said. The magistrate told him to relax and be orderly. **** A woman at a Rift Valley court is a worried person if a prosecutor's words are anything to go by. This is after the state counsel told her that for him to side with her mother and aide let her free, she must "bless" him with Sh40,000 "coffee". She is now worried that justice will not be served if she fails to do so.  **** An investigating officer is on the spot for stealing witness statements from the police file and forging a suspect's ID. The officer presented a police file without certain witness pages in court last week. Appearing confused and frustrated, the officer failed to explain to the court where the witness page was. She also had a rough time explaining the authenticity of the ID copy. "Your honour, I have been at the station and I have just confirmed that certain pages are missing in this police file that is before this court. The page I recorded my statement is missing. Let her explain where it is, " a witness told the court. She also said the ID was also fake. It took some minutes before the magistrate directed the matter to be mentioned later  so that the right documents are found, on request by the prosecution.