Factional politics within the Jubilee Party played out on Wednesday during the launch of the Building Bridges Initiative report at the Bomas of Kenya in Nairobi. The division manifested itself when Senate Majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen took to the podium and claimed that some leaders had been intentionally locked out from the programme. At one point, the master of ceremony Suna East MP Junet Mohammed said the meeting was convened to discuss the BBI report and not a platform for Jubilee leaders to talk about their differences. “We are here to discuss the BBI. Jubilee leaders should go an discuss their problems at another forum,” Junet said. Leader of Majority at the National Assembly Aden Duale had earlier cautioned President Uhuru Kenyatta against allowing some people around him to sabotage the Building Bridges Initiative. And in his address, Uhuru said he liked talking about the recent Kibra by-election but the matter never goes down well with some party members and officials. The President explained that he did not see too much of violence in Kibra to warrant the complains some party members and officials made. “There was some violence but it involved the leaders. Those can go to Nairobi Hospital but the people were free to go to any rally they wanted. My candidate in Kibra lost but I am happy to say that Kenya won. The people had no problem with each other and that is how we want Kenya to be,” Uhuru said. After the by-election, Deputy President William Ruto accused ODM leader Raila Odinga of having used a militia to cause chaos. Ruto said it was sad that though Raila was advocating for the BBI, he was behind the violence in Kibra. The ruling party has seen the emergence of two groups; the Tanga Tanga, which is perceived to be pro-Ruto and Kieleweke team that counters the Tangatanga group. Murkomen urged that the meeting should have an honest discussion. He said leaders with opposing views had been barred from speaking. “Even the way Junet, you are running the programme, we must have an honest discussion about it. Your Excellency, it would be a lie for me to leave this stage without saying that this programme has been skewed to leave out people with different opinions," Murkomen said. The Elgeyo Marakwet senator said the meeting should not be used to lecture some leaders who were opposed to the Handshake report. “As leaders, our voices must be heard. I demand the right to be heard like every other citizen of this republic,” Murkomen said. The crowd booed him every time he tried to address the meeting. The booing went on for minutes, forcing chairman of the BBI task force Yusuf Haji to calm the crowd. “I know the BBI will succeed but just listen to him (Murkomen),” Haji pleaded with the gathering. Soon after his address, Murkomen took to his Twitter page to quote a bible verse. “Ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free John 8:32,” the lawmaker wrote. Most of those who spoke had declared their support for the BBI as it was collecting views from Kenyans. They included Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, his Ford Kenya counterpart Moses Wetang’ula, women representatives Gladys Wanga (Homa Bay) and Sabina Chege (Murang’a). edited by p. obuya