The Kenya Union of Post Primary Education Teachers has castigated the Kenya National Examination Council for choosing a hazardous chemical for the Chemistry practicals in the ongoing KCSE exams. According to Kuppet’s Taita Taveta Branch Executive Secretary Shedrack Mutungi, the choice of Xylene and Bromine over other equivalents which are less toxic has led to health complaints from the science teachers, supervisors, invigilators and candidates. He said the teachers’ union had received several complaints of depression of the central nervous system with symptoms such as acute headache and Organic Solvent Syndrome. Mutungi said some students and supervisors had shown signs of dizziness, nausea, extreme tiredness, vomiting among other ailments. The Chemistry Practical Paper 3 examinations were administered last Friday. Mutungi who spoke on Monday in Voi,Taita Taveta County, said they had received complains from Mwasere Girls in Mwatate subcounty among other schools. “We are wondering if KNEC had performed that practical exam in advance to study the effects of such chemicals to human health. To use Xylene and Bromine at the same time has far-reaching health-related effects on the teachers and students,” Mutungi told journalists. He said they had received complains of the effects from Mwasere Girls in Mwatate subcounty among other schools. “The chemical has effects on the eye and skin if it gets in contact. These complaints have also been received in some schools in this county,” Mutungi noted. The use of hazardous chemicals, he said, brings to the open the reality of the dangers the teachers go through in the line of duty. KUPPET called on the exams body to facilitate the science and technical teachers to enable them to finance themselves. They also want KNEC to immediately compensate the teachers for the exposure to the harmful chemicals without giving proper guidelines on how to use them to mitigate their harmful effects. However, Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha on Monday dismissed the claims as baseless noting the complaint arose from those who sought to take advantage and cheat in the exam. The CS was speaking when he opened the container to distribute exam material to schools in Nairobi. Kuppet has said it is carrying out a detailed analysis to assess the extent of the dangers caused by the chemical.