Solicitor General Kennedy Ogeto has dismissed claims the Judiciary was targeted in the supplementary budget that slashed the courts’ budget by Sh2.8 billion. Ogeto on Thursday said the notion that the Judiciary was the National Treasury’s main target was misleading. “The austerity measures cut across the entire government. Every agency including the office of the Attorney General was affected,” Ogeto said. The Solicitor General spoke when he appeared before the Senate's Justice and Legal Affairs committee to explain whether the Treasury consulted the AG before proposing the budget cuts. The Nandi Senator Samson Cherargei-led committee also put Ogeto to the task to explain why the Judiciary Fund, which was meant to give the Judiciary financial independence, has not been operationalised. The National Treasury has proposed radical budget cuts across the various agencies in its bid to free up at least Sh3.3 billion to fund other projects. Treasury acting CS Ukur Yatani has proposed to cut the Judiciary budget by Sh2.8 billion, a move that has sparked furious reactions from different quarters with some accusing the executive of overlooking the independence of the Judiciary. Last week, Judiciary Chief Registrar Anne Amadi warned that crucial court operations could come to a standstill in February if Parliament approves the mini-budget. Amadi cited the anti-corruption courts which she said are severely understaffed and could be closed if more judges and magistrates and not recruited. “We have 10 magistrates in the anti-corruption courts and we had planned to hire more. That will have to stop, meaning that some of the cases currently in courts will be handled in 2024,” Amadi said. Ogeto said there was an urgent need to operationalise the Judiciary Fund but noted that the mandate of the AG’s office is limited. “We need this Fund operationalised, but we wish to note that the role of the budgetary policy and formulation for the entire government, including the Judiciary, is played by the National Assembly and Planning. This is a process in which the office of Attorney General has no role, except in respect of its own budget,” he said. Edited by R.Wamochie