A week of contrasting emotions for champions Gor Mahia will be tested further this afternoon when the Kenyan Premier League leaders take on Ulinzi Stars. The club were rocked by revelations that some key players are ready to call time on their association with K'Ogalo. While others have been surreptitiously plotting their departure, defender Maurice Ojwang has handed in a request to be released, a fact that was confirmed by comments from club chairman Ambrose Rachier. The gathering clouds at K'Ogalo were slightly lifted when coach Steven Polack received the October SJAK/Fidelity Insurance coach of the month award. The Brit will hope to steer Gor to their ninth win of the campaign against Ulinzi. The soldiers have started the season strongly and are just seven points adrift of this afternoon's opponents. Victory will solidify their reputation as the handful of teams capable of scuppering Gor's hopes of an unprecedented fourth successive top-flight crown. AFC Leopards will be in Mumias to take on Nzoia United. There were fears that Leopards could fail to honour this fixture as financial problems continue to bite. Club chairman Dan Shikanda, however, confirmed that the team had left for Mumias. "We have problems with finances which we are trying to resolve. However the team has travelled and we hope for a good result," stated Shikanda. The AFC boss revealed that defender Soteh Kayumba is away in Rwanda with permission from the club and will return next week. Second-placed Tusker will be looking to continue snapping at the heels of league leaders Gor with victory over out of sorts Bandari. The dockers are winless in their last four fixtures but coach Bernard Mwalala received backing from the club hierarchy as he attempts to turn around their fortunes. With only one win this season, Kariobangi Sharks will be hoping to repay the faith shown in them by sponsors when they tackle KCB. Sharks have hovered just above the relegation zone all season,+ heaping pressure on coach William Muluya. Their form though has not stopped betting firm Betway from agreeing on a deal to become their first-ever shirt sponsors for an undisclosed amount. Wazito meanwhile face basement club Chemelil Sugar as Zoo Kericho entertain Kisumu All Stars.