President Uhuru Kenyatta on Friday broke his silence on whether he had dumped his Deputy William Ruto for opposition leader Raila Odinga. In a statement that is likely to shape political debate, Uhuru said his relationship with Raila was limited to the peace of the country. "And even when I talk to this other man (Raila), I never tell him that we are talking so that he can get a big position. I tell him that we are talking because of the peace of this country and the future of our children," Uhuru said. He was speaking at the Sagana State Lodge when he met Mt Kenya leaders who have been calling for his audience since the handshake. His decision to work with his political competitor has been seen by many as a way of shunning Ruto and the Jubilee brigade. The President however told off his critics who have been asking him to declare whether he still supports Ruto telling them to focus on development instead of politics. "Election time will come. But have you ever heard me say that I have left my party and gone to another one? Have you ever heard me say that you should elect this one and not this other one? Why do some people think that they should remind me every morning? Who has asked you?" Uhuru said. The president also said that he has not seen the BBI report which is supposed to be a fruit of the handshake and which has divided his Jubilee Party. "I am hearing that BBI has this or the other. I am hearing that there are those who are supporting it and those opposed. I have never seen the BBI report and so I am still waiting to see it," Uhuru said. He added; "Now I have been wondering now these ones who read it when it is still sealed and telling us about it until I called the Chairman as asked him how I gave him a job and others are talking about it. He told me he even doesn't understand what people are talking about." He wondered even about the Prime Minister position given to him already yet the report is still sealed. "They even said that Uhuru will be the prime minister and I do not know who will be president". Uhuru however said that he would want to see some things  in the BBI report which he believes would unit the country further. "I would want to see how we make all votes equal. I would also want to see in the report that all corrupt individuals are not even as close at 10 steps to leadership," Uhuru said. BBI team concluded its findings and are still waiting for an invitation from the President in order to hand it over to him. The President maintained that the main purpose of the handshake between him and ODM leader Raila Odinga was to bring peace to the country. The BBI team had said that Kenyans views collected through countrywide forums will be reflected in the report. A section of Mt Kenya leaders had earlier asked the President to swiftly release the report in order to salvage the country from divisive speculations. Some had said they will reject the report if it will after Parliamentary system.