 The National Bureau of Statistics has defended the census figures showing Kenya's population stands at 47.6 million. The results have been disputed and criticised by many politicians, although some have backed the results released on Monday. KNBS director-general Zachary Mwangi on Tuesday said the census was "carried out professionally and transparently using internationally agreed statistical standards." "We also took advantage of technology," Mwangi said in on phone interview with the Star. The figures have drawn criticism from politicians including Kandara MP Alice Wahome who on Monday said the results were doctored to tilt the 2022 election campaigns. But Mwangi defended the figures, saying the numbers reflect Kenyans who were in the country at the time of the count in August. "The results show population distribution, that is the number of people, number of households as well as the average size at national, county and subcounty level per administrative unit. There is a difference between administrative unit and political unit," Mwangi said. He said the figures for political units will be released later as the data was big. "We will do an in-depth report or what is known as thematic report as we know that there are people who have since migrated." Among the factors to be considered in the in-depth report include fertility, mortality and urbanisation. The figures showed Mt Kenya, Rift Valley and Northeastern having nearly half the population at 22.4 million people. The census was conducted on the nights of August 24 and 25 and through to August 31. Nyanza, Western and Coast regions have a combined population of 16.4 million people. Ukambani region has 3.5 million people according to the KNBS results. The Coast region has 4.2 million people, Northeastern 2.5 million, Upper Eastern 2.9 million, Nyanza 6.2 million and Western six million. Central has a population of 5.4 million, while Upper Eastern counties have a total of 2.5 million people. The 2019 Census Report showed that Kakamega, Bungoma, Busia, Vihiga and Trans Nzoia have a total population of 6,022,741. Kakamega leads with a population of 1,867,579, closely followed by Bungoma county with 1,670,570. Trans Nzoia has 990,341 residents, Busia 893,681, while Vihiga has 590,570 people. On Monday, Tharaka Nithi Governor Muthomi Njuki and Tharaka MP Gitonga Murugara disputed the data showing the county’s population stood at 393,177 people. They said the figure was too low. “We will petition KNBS for a review of these results,” Njuki said. Gatundu North MP Moses Kuria took a swipe at those who 'manipulate' numbers. He did not clarify the target group or entity, but only said,"Figures don't lie, it is liars who figure." Nairobi is the most populous county, according to the 2019 census with the city-county having 4.39 million people, up from 3.13 million 10 years ago.  edited by peter obuya