The Employment and Labour Relations court has barred Kiambu MCAs from going ahead with plans to remove Kiambu Sports and Youth CEC Karungo wa Thang'wa from office. In a court ruling on Friday, Kiambu Governor Ferdinard Waititu was also barred from acting on the impeachment motion. "Any disobedience or non-observance of the order of the court given on November  7, 2019, served will result in penal consequences to you(petitioner) and any other persons so disobeying and not observing the same," read the court order. Two weeks ago, 51 out of 92 Kiambu MCAs signed a motion to impeach him. The notice of motion was tabled at the county assembly by nominated MCA Margaret Njeri. The ward reps accused the executive of incompetence, gross misconduct and abuse of office. A day after the impeachment motion, Thang'wa said plans by Kiambu MCAs to impeach him were more political than factual. He said the move is meant to malign his name and settle political scores. He called upon the county assembly to Accord him an opportunity to set the record straight. "In line with the constitutional principles of accountability and transparency. I welcome all media house to provide live coverage when I appear before the committee," Thang'wa said. On Monday the embattled CEC appeared before a  committee of five MCA's formed to investigate him. He further excused himself from the proceedings after the committee declined to provide him with particulars of his charges, laying grounds for the legal battle. In July, Thang'wa was summoned by the assembly committee on Youth and Sports after being accused of ignoring the MCAs whenever called upon to answer to queries arising from his department. The queries included claims that Sh5.5 million was spent on the Super Cup tournament to award teams and for transport logistics and training of coaches, referees and officials. The tournament was not completed with participants claiming they were not paid despite money being used. The MCAs said the department unnecessarily spent Sh1.9 million in the launch of the tournament. However, Thangwa defended the tournament, saying it was conducted with live media coverage and to acceptable standards. He said less money was spent as compared to other county government functions.