Radio Africa Group has secured a deal to air English Premier League matches every Saturday evening until the end of the season. EPL is the most-watched football league in the world and particularly Kenya, where fans are drawn across various football clubs. The audiences are now able to live stream a match every Saturday on the Star website and follow it on the Bamba Sports and Kiss TV channels which are available on the Free to Air decoders. The first match was aired on the past weekend where viewers were able to catch Arsenal versus Southampton match live. The head of Bamba Sports Carol Radull said the impact was positive as fans commended Bamba and the Star across the country on the deal. "The feedback from the viewers both on the Bamba Sport, Kiss TV, and the Star website was very good because they were able to watch the match without paying for it," Radull said. This coming weekend, fans will be able to watch a dubbed London Derby, where Chelsea will be facing West Ham United at the Stamford Bridge on Saturday. Chelsea is sitting on the fourth place on the EPL standing table with 26 points after 13 games. West Ham is at position 16 after playing 13 games and managed to secure 13 points. Fans will be able to watch a thirty-minute build up hosted by Carolle Kamanda before the match kick-off from the football analysts including former Harambee Stars players Innocent Mutiso and James Situma. The panelists will also do a match recap of the match and the standings including the next matches. The fans are also open to tweet during the game where their comments will be read on air. Apart from watching live EPL matches, Bamba Sports and KISS TV audiences are able to watch other three added shows. These include the mid-week show being aired every Tuesday night at 11pm, Premier League World which looks at everything happening in EPL, being aired o every Thursday at 11pm. There is also a preview show every Friday at 11pm where matches to be played over the weekend are being highlighted.