Another body of an infant retrieved from the Nairobi river on Tuesday morning in Korogocho. This now brings to 17 the number of bodies retrieved from the river since Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko launched the Nairobi River cleanup exercise early last year. Nairobi County Executive Member for Environment Vesca Kagongo confirmed the incident. Kagongo said the body was retrieved around Korogocho slums and was handed over to the police to carry out more investigation. "This is a very sad position. I have continuously said that our morals as a society have continued to degreed. Let's put a human face to our lives. We cannot continue retrieving human bodies of innocent young children who have lives, people who can change this country " Kagongo said. So far the bodies of 13 infants and 4 adults have been retrieved from the river. The youth cleaning the Nairobi River now says they are undergoing emotional trauma. The bodies they retrieve from the river are taking their toll. On Tuesday, the team retrieved yet another body of an infant brings to 17 the number bodies found in the river to 17. Mid this year, Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko asked police chiefs and county officials to investigate the dumping of bodies at the expansive river. The body of the infant was retrieved at Korogocho KA village at the bridge connecting Dandora and Korogocho. The body was fresh and was found floating on the river with its umbilical cord still attached. Kong Green Solutions chairman Fredrick Okinda said the issue is traumatizing and they are being affected psychologically. Okinda added that since Governor Sonko asked police chiefs and county officials to quickly investigate the dumping of bodies at the river nothing has happened yet. “We have so many children playing at the renovated Korogocho People’s Park. Seeing the bodies being retrieved affects them psychologically," he said. Komb Green Solutions is part of more than 600 youth deployed at the river. Tuesday's retrieval of the body was reported at Kariobangi police station under OB number 30/12/11/2019. Governor Mike Sonko who is among several dignitaries attending the international conference on population development (ICPD25) at KICC, said he will next week meet the Nairobi River cleanup team and give them morale. County executive member for environment Veska Kangogo said Sonko’s said a crackdown has already been launched. “This matter has attracted even foreign envoys. We have over 100 tourists who have so far toured our recreational park. Already we have started a crackdown on illegal clinics," Veska said. The governor in May called on the police to investigate the mysterious instances of dead bodies being retrieved from Nairobi River. Sonko on Saturday said the issues should not be taken lightly as several youths are being murdered and dumped in the river to conceal evidence. The Ngarisha Jiji initiative entails unblocking the sewer lines, clearing mounds of garbage and promoting responsible garbage disposal. The clean-up is focused on restoring Nairobi River and its tributaries including Ngong, Mathare, Mbagathi, Kirichwa Kubwa and Kirichwa Ndogo among others.