Reigning All Africa Games 1,500m champion Qualine Kiprop and former Africa junior 2,000m steeplechase champion Daisy Jepkemei began their 2020 Olympic Games and Africa cross country championships preparations in earnest in Eldoret over the weekend. Speaking after dominating the inaugural Bishop Cornelius Korir Memorial Peace cross country championships held at the Eldoret Sports Club, Kiprop and Jepkemei were optimistic of keeping their steady rise with the next year's Africa Cross and Olympic Games the ultimate prizes. The weekend race was meant to commemorate the late Catholic Bishop, who died two years ago. Jepkemei, who also won the Isaiah Kiplagat Memorial Ndalat Gaa cross country championships two weeks ago, won the women’s title ahead of Dorcas Jepchirchir, winner of the University of Eldoret cross country title last Saturday while Kiprop completed the podium in senior women 10km. After wearing national colours and tasting the sweetness of winning a continental title at the All Africa Games championships in Morocco in her international debut, Kiprop said she had the hopes of repeating the same come next year's twin events. “I did not know that I could win the African title but once I won, it gave me the motivation that I can do better,” said Kiprop who finished fourth at the national trials to the IAAF World Championships in Doha, Qatar, thus missing out on the event. Jepkemei has missed out on numerous international outings in her four years in the senior ranks and believes a slot at the Africa Cross and Olympic Games will heal these heartbreaks. “I have been training well to run for my country and I hope that dream will come to pass next year at the two championships,” said Jepkemei. Jepkemei won the title, stopping the timer in 35:45.9 ahead of Jepchirchir’s 36:14.5 and Kiprop’s 36:27.4. Emmanuel Kipchirchir, who won the University of Eldoret title, added a second title after timing 31:12.2, beating Alfred Barkach (31:40.6) and Elvis Cheboi (31:49.3. Selected results 10km women 10km senior men