Counties in the Lake Region Economic Bloc have been urged to make good use of the Sh3 billion refurbished Kisumu Port for socio-economic development. Kisumu Governor Anyang Nyong’o said the port development project opens up great opportunities for marine transport on Lake Victoria, especially with the Kenya Pipeline Company depot and oil jetty in Kisumu. The oil jetty, he said, must produce a viable option for lake transportation of oil products to Uganda and Tanzania. The governor urged LREB counties to take advantage of the new port for productive and service sectors. “It is time to identify the opportunities for job and wealth creation and devise strategies to realise the benefits,” Nyong’o said on Thursday at the Nyanza Region Blue Economy Conference in Kisumu. Nyong’o said the port is crucial to realise the Blue Economy for sustainable use of water resources for economic growth, improved livelihoods and jobs. The two-day conference provides an opportunity for counties to showcase e opportunities in their own territories and the linkages with sectors in neighbouring counties. Nyong'o said it will be possible to transport even more of Kenya’s products to regional markets on the lake when the standard gauge railway extends to Kisumu and a terminal is established in the town. Currently, more than 80 per cent of the international goods traded are transported by sea and seaborne trade is expected to double by 2030 and quadruple by 2050. He said the lakefront in Kisumu city is an ideal location for hotels and other leisure and hospitality facilities. “Growth in the hospitality industry will be supported by the tourism sector driven by culture and heritage. The lake has immense potential for water sports and regional and international festivals." Nyong’o said they are dividing the city into zones designated for various social and economic activities. Other sectors which Nyong’o said should be exploited are fisheries, renewable energy as well as aquaculture and biotechnology. This will spur industrial activities by providing raw materials. The county has developed a Blue Economy Strategy. Edited by R.Wamochie