President Uhuru Kenyatta will on Thursday receive recommendations to tame a growing public sector wage bill. Heads of government departments and parastatals have been discussing the proposals in the last two days in Nairobi. The Salaries and Remuneration Commission says while the public wage bill should not constitute more than 35 per cent of ordinary revenue in any financial year. The wage bill has shown a positive trend from 57.33 per cent of revenue in 2013/2014 to 48.1 per cent in 2018/2019, but SRC says this is still more than the 35 per cent cap stipulated in the Public Finance Management Regulations (2015). “The size of wage bill has a direct impact on the performance, national economy and the quality of life citizens live,” said Lyn Cherop Mengich, chairperson of SRC. She said the more a country spends its ordinary revenue to pay salaries the more it will borrow outside to finance development projects. Visiting Commonwealth secretary general’s special envoy on SDGs implementation, Prof Prajapati Trivedi, asked Kenya to increase workers' productivity through performance contracting. “You must be able to measure performance, not just reward output,” he said. Financial consultant Kuria Muchiru said cutting tea and snacks in government offices was not the solution. “The fiscal space is reduced and demand for services is high, so productivity is the solution,” he said. Muchiru, a former senior partner at PriceWatersCoopers, called on employers to find ways to motivate their employees. “For a demotivated worker, pay is the biggest motivator. But for other staff, you don’t even need extra pay for them to be more productive,” he said. The three-day National Conference on Transforming Kenya's Economy Through a Fiscally Sustainable Public Sector Wage Bill, began on Tuesday at the KICC and ends today. At the conference, the government is expected to explore several models to cut on the ballooning wage bill. Stakeholders are for instance likely to review the country's pension liability currently standing at Sh1 trillion. Last week, SRC civil service has been running an unfunded pension scheme, which has been increasing liability over the years despite the Public Service Superannuation Scheme Act on contributory pension scheme being passed in 2012. To reduce the burden, the government is likely to downgrade its engagement with employees to a contractual basis, removing them from the pension plan. The annual pension bill has also been on the rise, with more public servants reaching the mandatory retirement age of 60, increasing from Sh27.9 billion in 2013-14 to Sh65.1 in 2017-18. Other options on the table include a freeze on hiring or not replace retirees. Last week, Public Service Youth and Gender CS Margaret Kobia ruled out retrenchment as an option to ease public wage but said the conference may consider clearing non-productive employees through natural attrition.