"Kambas are faithful, just like women When they want to give it to you, they will." "It was 'just' a sexist quip by Raila Odinga, an attempt to rally Kibra's Kamba community for the ODM candidate Bernard Okoth in Thursday's by-election. But it backfired, setting off a firestorm of criticism in Ukambani, not just about sexism but also about Raila, Nasa and the need for Wiper to leave the crumbling coalition. On Monday the critics, including Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, called for Raila to apologise for the 'insulting' comments. They attended the first anniversary memorial for Kalonzo's father Mzee Peter Musyoko Mairu in Tseikuru. They said Raila demeaned Kamba women by suggesting they are promiscuous. They also said the governors who joined Raila in Kibra to campaign o not represent Ukambani: Charity Ngilu of Kitui, Alfred Mutua of Machakos and Kivutha Kibwana of Makueni. Led by Kalonzo, they said Raila and his team should not taint the community's name. "Just as President Uhuru Kenyatta has not been seen drumming up support for any candidate in Kibra, we have also opted to follow that route and focus on 2022," the former VP said. Kitui Woman Representative Irene Kasalu said Kamba women are "not loose". “We demand an apology from Raila after his humiliating sentiments, which were accelerated by the three governors who immediately rushed to his call in the name of representing the community,” Kasalu said. Mwingi Central MP Gideon Mulyungi said such words are shameful coming from someone like Raila. "Mwingi West MP Charles Nguna said Raila should apologise to all women as he did not only offend Kamba women but "every woman across the universe". Mwingi North MP Paul Nzengu urged Kalonzo to cut ties with friends who are 'biting his back'.  He said it was a shame that Wiper was still in Nasa and it was time to break the bond. “While Raila called Ngilu, Kivutha and Mutua who went saying they represent Ukambani, he simply undermined Kalonzo,” the legislator said. Nzengu said it is no use to be associated with a leader who insults mothers, sisters and wives. Kitui Senator Enock Wambua said the Kamba community does not deserve the Raila's insult. “After Kalonzo shelved his presidential ambitions in 2013 and 2017 to be his running mate, we expect respect, not insults from the ODM party leader,” he said on the phone. The senator said the three governors — Ngilu, Murua and Kivutha — do not present the Kambas. Other political leaders at the memorial service included Masinga MP Joshua Mwalyo, Kaiti MP Joshua Kimilu, Kilome MP Thaddeus Nzambia, among others. (Edited by V. Graham) 