A section of Nairobi MCAs have come out to defend Governor Mike Sonko by condemning Senator Johnson Sakaja’s remarks that Nairobi should be dissolved . The MCAs have have instead accused Sakaja of personally attacking the Governor and claimed he is doing business with the county yet he is supposed to oversight. Led by Nominated MCA Millicent Jagero, the legislatures on Thursday questioned efforts made by Sakaja in attempting to restore order and sanity in the city . “It is in public domain that Sakaja is doing business with the  county yet he is supposed oversight.He has never stepped foot in the assembly to address in the issues he has raise,” she said. Earlier in the day, Sakaja together with other Nairobi MPs had questioned the county Government of Nairobi under the leadership of Governor Sonko . They accused Sonko of failing to bring Nairobi leaders to the table to deliberate on issues affecting their electorate. They also claimed that Nairobi has a county Government which has a non functional executive, nepotism, insults, bullying and intimidation and even physical assault and even physical assaults and destruction of personal property by the executive. “As elected members of parliament , we would like to absolve our elected MCAs from a certain degree of blame understanding the difficult and hostile environment that they are operating in,” said the Nairobi leaders. The MPs also questioned the AAR insurance cover procurement contract which was alleged to be irregularly procured. Also it was mentioned that after the unprocedural termination of Jambopay , a certain Noveta company was single sourced to perform the critical duty of revenue collection on behalf of the County government. However, the MCAs also questioned the MPs decisions to start over sighting the county . “Their role is in the National Assembly and how and where do they come in to oversight he assembly, more so question Governor Sonko," Jagero said. Nairobi West Maurice Gari claimed that the MPs throwing accusations at Sonko didn’t have a clue on how to manage CDF funds and have started to investigate the county government. He accused the MPs of looking for ‘Christmas loot’ from Governor Sonko , which was the man reason behind the accusations. ‘You need to concentrate in your CDF and know that the money for Nairobi is for development . Why come to lecture Sonko on how to spend county money?’ Gari questioned. His sentiments were backed up by Karura MCA who said that Nairobi can only succeed if the MPs join hands with the Governor . County Assembly Speaker Beatrice Elachi also defended the Governor Sonko by saying that he has shown efforts regardless of the challenges he has been facing . "Let us look into the documents and call a spade a spade , the governor has tried and we can see for the past two years has done over 100km. Yes there might be corruption in the county but Governor has tried fighting  cartels," she said. County Executive also defended themselves and said that the accusation from the Sakaja and the MPs are all caused because of misinformation. "We have all the documents to show how work has progressed in the county and we invite the elected members to City Hall where they can get documents,” said Vesca Kangogo, County Executive for Environment.