County governments will now be able to borrow up to a fifth of their revenue to supplement their budgets. The Intergovernmental Budget and Economic Council on Monday allowed the devolved units to seek credit facilities of up to 20 per cent of the revenue that they generate from local taxation and from the shareable revenue from the national government to cut their budget deficits. Deputy President William Ruto- who chaired the council's meeting at his Karen residence - told the press that the ceiling was set to ensure the devolved units borrow responsibly. This will also ensure the counties are not over-saddled with debts, he said. Besides the ceiling, the council also agreed on the framework for evaluating the suitability of the counties to seek credit facilities as well as the requirements for the same, he said. At the same, the Deputy president said the request by counties to be allowed to borrow from central bank has been declined. He said this was because Kenya, along other East African community nations are implementing a policy of stopping to borrow from their central banks. Ruto also said that the counties have reduced the pending bill burdens they have been grappling with, having paid up Sh100 billion that was outstanding in 2017/18. Only Sh34 billion for 2018/19 is outstanding. "We have agreed to have issues of pending bills settled first before any budget spending. This is the same way debts are treated," he explained. Sh64 billion owed to counties by the national government have been paid so far, he said. On revenue sharing, the DP announced that the treasury already remitted a total of Sh62 billion to the devolved units and that only 22 counties are yet to receive the monies. "The Treasury is working to release the monies to the remaining counties in a few weeks," he said. The DP said the council also ratified a decision to prioritise for allocation of grants, counties that invest in vocational training. "The counties have given commitments to prioritize investing in vocational training as this will determine the grants they get," he said, adding that the government has positioned expansion of vocational training, a flagship project to empower the youths. "We must work to galvanise the youth's potential by equipping them with vocational skills,' he said. It is understood the county bosses had raised concerns over the proliferation of organisations claiming to rate the performance of counties and the favourability for investment. The DP said the council had directed the Commission of Revenue Allocation to develop professional framework for assessing counties on voluntary basis in so far as their performance and favourability as investment destinations are concerned. "This is to curb the number of dubious entities emerging, claiming to rate the performance of counties and whether they are suitable for investment. Counties will liaise with CRA whether to engage on a voluntary basis," he said. Ruto also directed the Ministry of Devolution to develop a framework to enable counties value their assets and liabilities for the purposes of planning. DP also announced that facilitation of local courts such as Municipal and county courts will be referred to the judiciary, including paying their rent expenses.