Youths and bodaboda riders from Kimilili in Bungoma have strongly condemned attacks on their MP Didimus Barasa and former Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale. Speaking to journalists on Friday, the youths led by Wanjala Sakwa decried the attack terming it as uncouth, unwarranted and undemocratic. Sakwa asked Simba Arati to formally apologise to Didmus and electorates for the heinous act. In a viral video, the Dagoreti North legislator is heard warning Didmus and threatening to unleash his team on him. seconds after Arati's remarks, a group of youth is seen roughing up Didmus despite his begging for calmness. Didmus was in the company of Benjamin Washiali and other MPs as they traversed Kibra constituency to observe the mini poll. Former Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale was also pelted with stones and kicked out of a polling station. But Sakwa said it was unfortunate that the youth had lost respect for their leaders. Sakwa  further warned ODM Leader Raila Odinga that if he did not control his youths and politicians, Bungoma will be a no go landing zone for him in the future. Sakwa wondered why Didmus who represented Jubilee, with candidate Mariga,  would be attacked by ODM youth. He said a time has come for  ODM supporting youth to restrain from violence and chaos. "Just the way ODM expects their candidates and agents to campaign in any part of this country, they should also allow other parties and their candidates freely access their strongholds," Sakwa said. While congratulating Imran Okoth for the victory, Sakwa said his biggest agenda is to foster peace and unity among the youth inclined to different political outfits. 'We were made to believe that the handshake brought to an end post-election violence, but if such things are still happening more so in broad daylight, in front of police and media then it's a strong indication we still have a long way to go in our electoral process," he said. ODM's candidate Imran Okoth emerged the winner in the hotly-contested by election. Okoth garnered 24,636 votes with Jubilee Party’s McDonald Mariga coming in second with 11,230 votes. On Thursday, as vote counting was underway, Mariga conceded defeat and called Okoth to congratulate him. He assured Okoth of his support saying: “After elections tutarudi ile life yetu ya mabeshte na kila kitu…” 'I'm humbled to have received a congratulatory call from Mariga That’s the spirit of politics. I promise to move forward with every interested party for the good of our people. God bless Kibra,' said Imran in his victory message