A port workers' group has defended embattled Kenya Ports Authority managing director Daniel Manduku over alleged involvement in illegal tenders. KPA has been under investigations by the DCI in connection with Sh2.7 billion tenders at the Mombasa port. However, the Port Workers Welfare and Performance Group say the probe is out of ‘pure malice’. “From what we are reading in the media on the alleged corruption scandal at the Port of Mombasa, it is pure malice. There is a hidden agenda behind the reports,” the group said in a statement on Thursday. The statement was signed by chairman Waweru Kamau, secretary Ali Khamis and organising secretary Peter Ouma. The three said the ‘witch-hunt’ against Manduku is being driven by cartels and ‘cowboy contractors’ who are out to eject the MD from his position. Manduku was confirmed to the post by Transport CS James Macharia on November 30 last year. He had served in an acting capacity for four months following the exit of Catherine Mturi-Wairi. Manduku is the 14th MD since KPA was established in 1978. The PWWP said they condemn corruption at the port but are also against the way graft cases are being handled there. “There seems to be a personal vendetta against individuals at the port at the moment,” the officials said. They said the government should get its facts right before hounding ‘innocent people’ at the port. “Tender losers at the port have ganged up with brokers to fight back and ensure Manduku is sacked,” they said. The three said the only mistake Manduku did was to stand in the way of politically correct individuals that hang out in the corridors of power. Waweru said some names of managers at the port are being used as sacrificial lambs to get to Manduku and settle political scores. “Manduku has been able to seal corruption loopholes and that’s why they have turned against him,” Waweru said. Manduku emerged top of the 14 shortlisted candidates that were interviewed for the post. The position attracted over 60 applicants. (edited by O. Owino)