ODM party leader Raila Odinga has expressed his gratitude to Kibra residents for overwhelming voting for Imran Okoth. Raila who doubles up as the African Union Special Envoy for Infrastructure said he asked his team to gather people from their houses who had not voted after witnessing that there was a low turn out. "I knew you would do as you had promised. Thank you a lot for taking the shame away from me," Raila said. Raila said Imran was voted by people across all the tribes residing in Kibra. Imran who is also the brother to the late Ken Okoth gannered 24, 636 votes  to win against 23 other contestants in the Thursday mini poll. Jubilee's candidate McDonald Mariga came in second with 11, 230 votes while Musalia Mudavadi's ANC candidate  Eliud Owalo came in third with 5, 275 votes. Moses Wetangula's Ford Kenya candidate  Khamisi Butichi was a distance fourth with 260 votes. The total votes cast was 41, 984 against a registered number 118, 658 votes representing a 35.38% voter turnout. Imrans victory was highly celebrated and seen as a bitter lesson to deputy president William Ruto who had vowed to teach Raila a lesson. Ruto is said to have picked on Mariga with an intention to divide the Luhya vote. But Raila said the outcome of the by election reflects what is contained in the Building Bridges Initiative report which is purposely meant to unite the country. ODM leader said the BBI will end politics of hate, tribalism, and corruption. "BBI italeta utangamano baina ya wakenya wote," Raila said. He said it was unfortunate that those who lost had resorted to spitting jibe against ODM. He promised that the BBI is committed towards ending such political intolerance. This comes as Deputy President William Ruto launched a series of attacks against Raila over the mini poll. Ruto said ODM won the election because Raila deployed militia like youth to cause chaos and disrupt the voting. "The only strategy and structure Tinga's party had which largely succeeded was,violence, chaos,mayhem & terror meted out by organized baba's militia the same instruments used by terrorists organizations including outlawed groups,"Ruto wrote on his twitter page. He added, "How sad they have learnt nothing from handshake!". Raila urged Kenyans to be ready for the BBI outcome. BBI taskforce concluded its findings and are waiting to hand it over to President Uhuru Kenyatta. The BBI taskforce was formed following a Handshake between Uhuru and Raila in March this year. The team went across the country collecting views from the Kenyans on what the Constitution should contain in order to create an inclusive government. The former PM was addressing Kibra residents at DC grounds during a thanksgiving rally for electing Imran. The rally was attended by several MPs including Kkameha governor Wycliffe Oparanyaand his Machakos counterpart Alfred Mutua.