A twenty-eight-year-old millionaire is among the eight people approved by Parliament to lead the National Cohesion and Integration Commission. The University of Nairobi law graduate Peris Nyuttu, born in Gatundu North in 1991, told the vetting panel that she is worth Sh23 million. According to documents tabled before the National Cohesion and Equal Opportunity Committee, Nyuttu served as a director of the National Irrigation Board upon graduation in 2016. She received the Order of the Grand Warrior state award for her role in the formation of Warembo Na Uhuru lobby group which campaigned for President Uhuru Kenyatta’s re-election. MPs also approved the nomination of Samuel Kobia as the chairman, Philip Okundi, Abdulaziz Farah, Danvas Makori, Fautma Tabwara, Dorcas Kedogo and former Kerio Valley Development Authority board chairman Samuel Kona to serve as commissioners. The eight nominees were picked by President Uhuru Kenyatta to sit in the crucial body that fosters equal opportunity, harmony and peaceful co-existence of persons of different ethnic and racial communities and advise the government. MPs called on the new team to bring the country to order and restore dignity and decency among the political class. Minority leader John Mbadi said the NCIC must rise to the occasion and safeguard the moral fabric of the society. “I think it is important that the commission bring order to this country,” Mbadi said. Mwea MP Kabinga Wanjira said NCIC is the only body that can help Kenyans live within the law. “If this commission does its work well, this country can save a lot of resources. This is one commission we really have to look at,” Kabinga noted. Nominated MP Cecily Mbarire warned the commission risks carrying on the label of a toothless bulldog if it will not act decisively on leaders and individuals propagating hate speech. The committee chaired by nominated MP Maina Kamanda vetted the nominees on Thursday last week and unanimously approved all of them. The nominees now await formal appointment by the President. Okundi, Abdulaziz and Kedogo are former lawmakers having represented Rangwe, Vihiga county and Mandera East respectively. Danvas Makori served as the Nairobi county acting Finance CEC before he was fired by Governor Mike Sonko.