 President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four agenda yesterday suffered a big blow after MPs slashed Sh30 billion from the allocation for projects. The lawmakers yesterday reduced the supplementary budget presented by acting Treasury CS Ukur Yatani. The Budget and Appropriations Committee approved Sh50.6 billion from the initial Sh80 billion presented by Yatani. Committee chairman Kimani Ichung’wa (Kikuyu) asked the House to adopt the report which has also reduced recurrent expenditure by Sh800 million. However, the 2019/20 budget still increased by Sh49.7 billion which the state will have to borrow to fund the deficit. In the adjustments, several state ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs) will lose some of their initial proposals for additional funding. The Interior Ministry is due to lose Sh1 billion reduced from National Integrated Identity Management System ( Sh800 million) and the rest slashed from operational expenses. Key flagship projects have suffered in the proposed cuts after the Ichung’wa team denied the Infrastructure department Sh2.3 billion it intended to spend on James Gichuru- JKIA expressway. A request of Sh1 billion for sewerage and pipeline works along the expressway was also turned down on grounds the project would hold funds meant for other activities. The department may also lose out on its request for Sh3.4 billion for access roads to food security and nutrition facilities as well as Sh469 million for access roads to the Naivasha ICD and Industrial Parks. A similar request for Sh185 million has also been rejected with the MPs also declining a request for Sh3.5 billion for putting up a textile park in Naivasha. A proposal to allocate Sh4 billion to connect the park to electricity was also turned down. The MPs also rejected a request to allocate Sh1.4 billion for electrification of Level 3 and Level 4 hospitals. The government may also lose funding for the Dongo Kundu Special Economic Zone for which Treasury sought approval for Sh1.8 billion. A call for Sh694 million to connect hospitals to the Internet and another Sh886 million for Konza ICT connectivity has also been rejected by the MPs. The Ichung’wa-led team also turned down Treasury’s request for Sh2.1 billion to fund the Northern Collector Water project in Murang’a. Requests of Sh1.5 billion for the Mombasa SEZ and Sh1.9 for the Kenanie Leather factory have been turned down. National Treasury has equally lost an allocation of Sh2 billion owing to delays in the roll-out of employer compulsory contributions to NSSF. Marsabit county’s water projects have suffered a blow after the MPs proposed a reduction of Sh80 million sought by Treasury’s Planning department for irrigation projects. Yatani’s request for Sh1.16 billion for the Suswa-Loyangalani high voltage transmission line has been stayed until the second supplementary estimates are drawn. The Public Works Department has also lost the bid for Sh1.6 billion while the IEBC’s bid for Sh360 million for delimitation of boundaries was also declined. Going forward, MPs want a forensic audit of the NIIMS project to establish value for money and that the Auditor General should submit a report by March 2020. “Universal Health Coverage fund should be channeled through counties as conditional grants by amending the Division of Revenue Bill,” the committee said. They also want the Treasury to release Sh154 million held in its suspense account to fund the rehabilitation of street children. MPs have also demanded that the government provides a Big Four implementation matrix before presenting the Budget Policy Statement for 2020. “The Treasury should not effect any reduction to the approved budgets of the Judiciary, Parliament and all MDAs through the IFMIS and Treasury circulars before the approval of this House. It is illegal to do so,” Ichung’wa said in their report. 