There's magic in a dozen. An interesting number for gamers. Did you know that twelve is the largest number with a single-syllable name in English? The number twelve carries religious, mythological and magical symbolism, generally representing perfection, entirety, or cosmic order in traditions since antiquity. It's no wonder that the outstanding betting company M-Bet Kenya have the Perfect 12 at heart. The perfect 12 will spoil you once you discover its joys. Try it on M-Bet. Not only do they give you a treat to enjoy your favorite games from the best leagues in the world, they also give you a chance to make good money in the simplest way that's probably available in the market. Firstly, the M-Bet app is lighter faster and better to play. It doesn't consume your bundles plus you enjoy exclusive free tips and predictions plus notifications on new promos, welcome bonuses and raffles. How to play the PERFECT 12 The exciting gaming mechanic available for Kenyans can be accessed every day. It's a daily jackpot. You play with just sh50 on 12 very easy matches. The list of 12 games plus the 5 reserve games is picked from you favorite competitions and teams, you get to bet and win on the English Premier League, La Liga, Serie A, Bundesliga, Ligue 1 and all major and best football leagues worldwide. If you are a fan of Manchester United, Arsenal, Chelsea, Liverpool, Manchester City, Barcelona, Real Madrid, Juventus  PSG or any other team, then M-Bet is your home basically. In the PERFECT 12 Daily Jackpot, you are required to predict correctly, the scores of all 12 games, plus the 5 reserve games. The 5 reserve matches are for use only, in case any of the 12 main matches are cancelled due to weather conditions or any other unpredictable reasons. This is how the 5 reserve matches are applied; if only one game is cancelled the first game of the reserve games will replace the cancelled match. If there are 2 games cancelled then the 2 first reserved games will replace the cancelled matches. Perfect 12 Jackpot prize? With 50 shillings only, you can change your life instantly. There are millions to be won daily and the amount keeps growing! Bonuses are awarded if you get 9, 10 or 11 out of 12 games, get in now and play, I would suggest you download the M-Bet app to play or play online PERFECT 12 The bonuses for new gamers on M-Bet All new registrations on M-Bet that deposit sh50 earn a free bet. To register, send the sms ‘M-Bet’ to 79888 or do it via the M-Bet website. We however recommend that you download the M-Bet App its simple to use, secure, light and very fast. Users who download the App get to enjoy exclusive free betting tips daily and win on their bets. How cool is that? You also receive match analysis, updates on new bonuses and promotions where you win free data bundles, phones, and Television or team jerseys! If you don't have a smartphone, just Dial *798# and bet fast with M-Bet on the prime USSD. M-Bet rewards loyalty. You get to enjoy FREE BETS on every 10 bets played, every day, no limits. Get started by making your deposit with M-Bet Paybill Number 298888 and account 'Deposit'. The minimum stake amount to play normal bets is only Ksh 25. Got questions? M-Bet has the best customer service, contact them on any of the channels below, Facebook , Twitter , Instagram or Call SAFARICOM 0701 290 006 OR 0717 290 006 and AIRTEL 0733 290 006 OR 0782 290 006