An acute shortage of staff, coupled with underfunding, have been identified as the major challenges facing the veterinary sector in the country. The situation has been worsened by failure by the national and county governments to employ vets for the last seven years. Stakeholders in the sector now warn that nearly all the current employees will go into retirement in four years, leading to a total paralysis. This emerged at the end of the Kenya Veterinary Association women chapter meeting, held at Lake Naivasha Resort. According to Africa Veterinary and Technicians Association President Benson Ameda, the veterinary department has been ignored by both the national and county governments. He said the sector faces a myriad of challenges, key among them staffing that seen some services stall in several regions. “Most employees in this department are set to retire in the next four years and it will be practically impossible to carry out disease surveillance in the counties,” he said. Ameda retaliated calls to have the veterinary services reverted to the national governments as it was impossible for individual counties to handle them. He gave an example of disease outbreaks in various parts of the country, noting that it had become near impossible for counties to manage them. “All services under the veterinary department should be taken back to national government and this will make it easier to control livestock disease outbreaks,” he said. Senior Deputy Director of Veterinary Services Dr Mike Cheruiyot said there was need for neighboring countries to work together in curbing spread of diseases. Cheruiyot also welcomed the move by counties to form blocks to fight animal diseases. “This is a commendable move where counties will jointly help in disease control, meaning farmers can enjoy services without spreading diseases from one area to another,” he said. The Kenya Veterinary Association women chapter chairperson, Dr Marylin Karani, said they were focused on animal health as one way of preventing diseases in animals. “We have formed an organisation bringing together all the IGAD member countries to work together to protect animals through prep-Veterinary approach,” she said.