Reigning Nairobi region Chapa Dimba Na Safaricom champions South 'B' United have exuded confidence to clinch the national title in the third edition set to kick off on November 23. United made it to the semi-finals during the last edition held in June, Meru. Coach John Mandela has set his eyes on dethroning Manyatta United who were decorated as boys' champions with Kitale Queens winning the girls title. Mandela, a Caf licence 'C' holder, disclosed that the squad which claimed the regional title and further advanced to the final four in the nationals, had not been interfered with as the players fall within the required age bracket. He believes that fortunes will swing in their favour this time around, having risen from regional semi-finalists in the first edition held in 2017-2018 to champions and further managed to punch above their weights in the nationals. The nationals are set to be held in June next year in Mombasa with the winner pocketing Sh 1 million. Additionally, outstanding players will get the opportunity to fly to Madrid, Spain for a tournament. “When the tournament was launched, we managed to make it to the top four in the region. We ruled the region in the second edition and eased into semis during the nationals. This time around, we are going for the ultimate prize which is to win the nationals. Our squad is still intact,” Meanwhile, the duo of Brian Wanyama and Hussein Mohammed who feature for the club will be seeking to make it to the All-Stars team to Spain. Wanyama, who won the regional Most Valuable Player (MVP) and consequently made it to Spain early this year, said he is keen to replicate the same. “The experience in Spain was unforgettable and hopefully this year, I will also make it again. I know there is competition but I will put my best foot forward and ensure I score as many goals as I can,” said the winger who has AFC Leopards as his dream team in the KPL. Mohammed, a left-back, on the other hand, said he will capitalise on the platform and fulfil his dream of playing in Madrid. “I am a Real fan and this is an opportunity to travel to Spain. I missed out last time but this time I know the secret.”