Did President Uhuru Kenyatta tear into pieces a proposal by a political outfit that had written to him requesting for funding of their political activities? A source who is aware of the happenings has told corridors that the outfit which has been campaigning against the Deputy President William Ruto wanted money to roll out more activities and recruit more members. The leaders of the group whose activities have been dwindling of late were shocked when the President told that “they had no idea how far they have come with Ruto and how deep their friendship was”. Left with an egg on their faces, the officials left the place dismayed and since then, the outfit has lost steam. *** The Kamatakamata Friday strategy that had been adopted the Directorate of Criminal Investigations seems to have died and politicians who were of the opinion that the war on corruption had been weaponized to target certain individuals have not missed to noticed that. On Friday last week, some politicians from Rift Valley and Mt Kenya region who were having a drink at a popular joint along Mombasa Road, were overheard saying DCI seemed to have had a list of managers especially from Kalenjin and Kikuyu communities who were were to be removed from the positions by all means. *** Junior police officers in a county in western are unhappy with their County Commander whom they have accused of having a know-it-all attitude. Some senior police bosses are also complaining that the commander does not listen to them and wages war against them arbitrarily. An OCPD is even said to have applied for a transfer citing bad working relationship. A junior officer told Corridors that the county is in a mess because of “one man who thinks he knows everything” and does want not listen to anybody. Could Inspector General of police Hillary Mutyambai urgently look into the matter since the morale of officers is low and they are not keen to combat the escalating criminal activities in the area. *** Kenyans may have forgotten that there are people call Chief Administrative Secretaries . Most of them were 2017 election losers who were appointed on the basis that they would cure the perception of exclusion in the jubilee administration which unfortunately has failed to achieve. Corridors has learnt that one of the CAS’s is now really eating life with a big spoon. Within a short period of time, the official has acquired massive wealth and has already put up a campaign secretariat in what is becoming a clear indication of making a come back in the 2022 general election. The official already has employed social media attack dogs who are not only campaigning for the man but also taking on anyone who opposes their master.