Champions National Cereals and Produce Board and Strathmore University dominate the 26-man provisional national team for the Africa Olympic qualifiers set for between January 15 and 25 in Tunisia. NCPB has eight players in the lineup while the varsity side have seven. Other clubs with representation in the team are Black Mamba (4), Kenya Defence Forces (3) as both Kenyatta University and Generations have one player each. Head coach Peter Mwathi has also drafted two foreign-based players including left-back Brian Mathews Oduor (Denmark) and goalkeeper Tyrus Omondi of Rwanda Police to his side. Strathmore’s pivot player Allan Simiyu and Kenyatta University’s right wing Titus Kipruto make their first appearance in the team. “All the named players are doing well for their respective clubs in the league and I hope to get the best of them during preparations before settling for the final team. The two new faces are, however, very promising and have something to offer. Something we have not had in the team for a long time,” said Mwathi who wishes he is allowed to have 18 players for the assignment and not 16. Kenya Handball Federation’s technical director Charles Omondi said the team will commence non-residential training today at the Kaloleni Sports Grounds. He was, however, non-committal on the exact dates the team will start residential camp saying: "Some time in January. I cannot say the exact dates the residential training will start because we are still sourcing for funds.” Kenya are set to commence their Tokyo Olympics ticket hunt against Democratic Republic of Congo in Pool ‘A’ preliminary matches on January 16. The two sides will also faceoff with Guinea and Egypt in their subsequent ties. The provisional team drew Thodosia Songoro, Chris Miyiende, Victor Otuoma, Nicholas Okoro, Clinton Michael, Timothy Kirimi, Elvis Otieno and William Malui (NCPB), Rashid Ingwela, Teddy Sidai, Jackson Maloba, Kevin Obungha, Simon Mutuku, Maxwell Munene and Simiyu (Strathmore), Paul Ondara, Nicholas Ndochi, Morgan Wamalwa and Martin Nguli (Black Mamba), Nicholas Ireri, Gideon Mulwa and Nicholas Otieno (KDF), Celestine Okoyana (Generation),Omondi (Rwanda Police), Oduor (Denmark) and Kipruto (KU).