Champions KCB and Kabras put their unbeaten runs on the edge when they face off in a mouth-watering Kenya Cup clash at the Lions Den in Ruaraka this afternoon. Five matches into the new season and the heavyweights are yet to taste defeat with Kabras ranked top of the table on points differential with their hosts today second. The two, the best sides in the country, have faced each other in the last three Kenya Cup finals and will be aiming to give their fans a match to remember with whoever wins here set to open a healthy lead. The bankers have made four changes for the clash with skipper Curtis Lilako replacing Nelson Nyandat at tighthead prop, international Martin Owila comes in for Kenya Sevens skipper Andrew Amonde at blindside flanker with Michael Wanjala getting the nod over Samuel Asati at scrumhalf. Isaac Njoroge comes in for Jacob Ojee on the wing. KCB assistant coach Dennis Mwanja expects a revitalised side when they take on the Enterprise Cup champions. "We struggled last week against Homeboyz in some facets of play and we hope we can improve in our scrums and be quick at the breakdown. Kabras are a good side. We have had epic battles with them but I am confident our team we will go all the way,” said Mwanja. Kabras, on their part, will be eyeing a first win over the bankers in 10 meetings. The best result for the sugarmillers is a 15-15 draw from 2016. Head coach Hennley Du Plessis has gone for the tried and tested with a frontrow of Ephraim Oduor, Eugene Sifuna and Uganda 15s skipper Asman Mugerwa with Brian Juma and Hillary Odhimabo starting at lock. George Nyambua, Charlton Mokua and the evergreen Lawrence Buyachi form a formidable backrow. Brian Tanga and Fijian Jone Kubu are the half-back pairing with South African Ntabeni Dukisa and another Fijian import, Timoci Senaite in midfield. Du Plessis have also settled for a back three of Alfred Orege, Paul Abuto and Avisai Kurayawa. Du Plessis said the side will be aiming to get the monkey off their back by beating the bankers for the first time. "It will be a tough game. We learnt our lessons from last season's defeats and, mentally, the boys are ready for this game,” said Du Plessis, adding that they have worked on their lineout, defence and discipline. "Our discipline and defence must be spot on and we should not give away needless penalties. Our decision making has to be good too." In other fixtures, third-placedImpala make the short trip to Nakuru as Homeboyz welcome Blak Blad. Mwamba face Quins, Oilers entertain Nondies as Western Bulls host Kisumu.