The Kenya Defence Forces on Wednesday began recruiting 3,000 skilled officers to provide manpower in newly established units. Applicants must be competent in specific areas. Those selected are expected to fill the gap of those who left the force through natural attrition such as death and retirement. The categories to be recruited include the General Service Officers, Specialist Officers, General Servicemen and Women, technicians and artisans, constabulary. “As we speak, all the recruiting teams are at their designated recruiting centres, as had been advertised through the local media outlets," vice chief of the defence forces Robert Kibochi said. He was addressing security agencies and the media at the Department of Defence headquarters in Nairobi. “The recruitment exercise, expected to end on 16 December 2019, will be conducted by 26 recruitment teams in the 322 subcounties in the 47 counties," Kibochi said. Successful candidates are expected to report for basic military training at the Recruits’ Training School in Eldoret. Similarly, the shortlisted cadets will be notified through the media on when to report to the Kenya Military Academy in Lanet, Nakuru county. "The successful candidates will join the Kenya Army, Kenya Air Force, the Kenya Navy and the Defence Forces Constabulary,” Kibochi said. "We urge all eligible potential recruits to turn up in large numbers and take part in the recruitment process. However, they must be ready to take part in physical exercises as well as medical tests and verification of academic and professional certificates." Corruption and other malpractices related to KDF recruitment indicate that 103 cases of conning and falsified documents were reported last year. “Ninety-seven cases involving civilians have so far been prosecuted, with most offenders fined Sh40,000 or [sentenced to] jail terms of six months. Cases of the six who pleaded not guilty are still ongoing,” Kibochi said. “Ten KDF personnel were implicated. Five have been dismissed from the service, while the other five are still being investigated.”