DID President Uhuru Kenyatta dress-down a vocal Tangataga Central Kenya squad leader moments after he finished addressing Mt Kenya leaders at Sagana State lodge last Friday? Well. Corridors of Power is aware that the Head of State took head-on the MP over unknown matter and was seen tongue-lashing him as he walked out of the venue. It was not clear what the matter was that had infuriated the President, but a visibly angry Uhuru was seen pointing a finger at the MP several times as if he was accusing him of something. It is understood that the politician, a vocal and key figure of the Tangatanga brigade, had slipped through the security cordon and approached the President with a certain message which Uhuru was obviously unhappy with. The President walked away moments later as his security shoved off the MP. STILL, with matters Sagana State lodge meeting, a popular Kikuyu MP from the diaspora was blocked from getting into the meeting venue for unknown reasons. The MP from a county in the Rift Valley but who hails from central Kenya is known to be very critical of the President and has been unleashing social media tantrums targeting Uhuru. A small bird aware of the plot to block him told us that the state operatives who were organising the meeting did not send any invitation to him despite his colleagues from his elective region having been invited. Actually, an influential MCA from his constituency was ushered into the meeting to the chagrin of the MP. There are reports that there is an order from State House that the mouthy politician should not step anywhere near presidential events even if they are held in his home county. A debate has erupted in City Hall about the whereabouts of a senior official who has not set foot in his office for three months. The man, who is one of the few officers Governor Mike Sonko retained from his predecessor Evans Kidero administration, was last seen at the county offices in August. Interestingly, the officer has been accompanying the governor to functions outside City Hall buildings. Insiders say that the man has been avoiding EACC sleuths who have been frequenting his office. The investigators are said to be probing the official and his juniors over the award of a multi-million tender to a contractor. IS a popular Cabinet secretary from Mt Kenya becoming a thorn in President Uhuru Kenyatta's flesh? The largely vocal CS could be having bigger ambitions and the possibility of the fruition of his hopes came to the fore last Friday. As cabinet secretaries were being invited at the Sagana State Lodge, the CS received unusual applause from the guests as he rose to wave. The public ululations as an indication of open public approval from over 4000 delegates who attended the meeting caught state mandarins off-guard. The CS has been seen as a key figure in the shifting political landscape within Mt Kenya and his rising political star has obviously brushed some shoulders the wrong way. As the succession politics within Mt Kenya swirl, it would be interesting to watch the cabinet secretary said to have a prolific command of the native Kikuyu language. Only time will tell.