Students of the Technical University of Mombasa on Wednesday protested against the attack on four students by Kisauni gangs. The four separate attacks occurred on Tuesday in Mshomoroni. One student is fighting for his life, three others were treated and discharged from hospital. Police shot in the air several times to disperse a crowd at Zam Zam where youths suspected to be gang members threw stones at students and police. Several students were injured. Protesters marched from TUM to Makupa police station and Kisauni as police officers accompanied them. They rode tuk-tuks and matatus, some walked carrying tree twigs past Nyali Bridge. TUM student union leader Dennis Okang’a said the four students were headed home on Tuesday when they were attacked separately. “I was with them before they left home and it was not late. We are fed up with the attacks and we need police to act,’’ he told the Star on Wednesday. Three students were treated for head and hand cuts at Coast General Hospital, then discharged. The fourth, a third-year student is in the ICU with head fractures and multiple deep cuts. Reports indicate they gangs didn't steal anything during the attacks. In May, David Mwaura, a final-year medical student, died after he was stabbed by two men at his house in Mshomoroni. Other students have lost valuables in past attacks. Mombasa county police commander Augustine Nthumbi said on Wednesday 11 suspects have been arrested following the attacks. “Action is being taken but there is more to be done. We assure the public we will do everything possible to improve security in Kisauni,” Nthumbi said. Earlier on Tuesday, two gang members were injured after they clashed following an alleged disagreement on how to share narcotics at Magodoroni. Haki Africa and the Pwani Social Justice Centres Working Group condemned the attacks and called on the police to work harder. "We demand that the youths behind the attacks are immediately arrested and charged. Many Kenyans, especially locals in Kisauni, are wondering how the police are unable to tame these criminal gangs," Haki Africa executive director Hussein Khalid said. Edited by R.Wamochie