Magarini cultural centre Kaya elders, Kilifi county have accused the County for failing to promote cultural events. The elders who have been at the forefront of sensitizing the community through cultural music, activities and preserving the culture of the Mijikenda accuse the county government of failing to allocate any funds for cultural promotion. The cultural centre has been organizing events including the Mijikenda new year celebrations, Chenda Chenda festival, traditional Mijikenda herbal medicine men, witchdoctors practising. At one time the centre hosted foreign tourists who had come to seek divine from witchdoctors and traditional performances. Speaking at the centre during the official launch of the Mijikenda cultural day Director of Magarini culture Nzai Kombe said they sent proposals to the department of tourism and culture but surprisingly they said there were no funds. He said the county recently spent millions to fund Churchill show and other events that do not showcase culture. He claimed the department of culture had issues as the chief officers and the CEC members had differences that were affecting service delivery. ''Whenever the CEC member approves something the chief officer undermines her, we have been following up these issues but they have created problems,'' he said. Kombe said devolution came with hopes of transforming lives at the grassroots but some departments had issues. He said they were told that  MCAs passed a bill to have Kilifi county festival but warned that without proper plans and coordination at the grassroots level it won't succeed and urged Kilifi governor Amason Kingi to intervene. ''Cultural festival is very important, it brings people together but there have to be proper plans in place,'' he said. Kombe said they took the message to all the departments but its only tourism CEC who said would help in publicity while the culture department chief officer said they had no intention to support them. He threatened to mobilize all Mijikenda Kaya elders to protest against the mistreatment by the government. ''Just recently Churchhill was in Malindi at the Alaskan grounds were told he spent millions of shillings from the county, but when we ask for funds to promote culture we are told there is no money,'' he said. Kaya elder Kapombe Kashuru said they have tried to promote culture but were being frustrated by the county government which did not recognize their efforts. ''We are sad because there is a whole CEC member for culture but does not have any interest in promoting cultural activities,'' he said. He called for Kilifi Governor Amos Kingi's intervention.