The country will continue experiencing heavy rainfall until Tuesday next week. In the latest five-day weather forecast from the Meteorological Department, the wet weather will continue in the southern and western regions. Dr David Gikungu, in a press release to newsrooms, said Nairobi, Central and South-East lowlands are among areas that will have downpours. He said Narok, Kajiado, Bomet, Nakuru, Nyamira, Kisii, Homa Bay, Kisumu and Siaya are areas of major concern. Other counties are Nairobi, Nyeri, Kiambu, Nyandarua, Kirinyaga, Muranga, Machakos and Makueni. While Nairobi and Thika will receive heavy relentless rain on Saturday morning, Nyeri, Nyandarua and Laikipia are predicted to receive heavy disastrous rain on Sunday. Migori, Trans Mara, Bomet and parts of Kericho will get disastrous downpours on Monday night. "Heavy rainfall that is being experienced across the country has led to an overflow in most rivers and the grounds are already saturated with water," the statement read. The rain is expected to continue for the entire season but with occasional breaks. "Flooding and landslides may, therefore, be triggered by any substantial amount of rainfall in low-lying areas and over hilly grounds," Gikungu said. Residents of mentioned areas have been advised to be on the lookout for potential floods. The department said floodwaters may suddenly appear, especially in lowlands where it has not rained heavily and could be deeper and faster. "Residents are advised to avoid driving through or walking in moving water or open fields. Do not shelter under trees or near grilled windows to minimise exposure to lightning strikes," it read. So far, more than 50 people have died following a landslide in West Pokot last week. The disaster has left more than 10,000 other people displaced. Government Spokesperson Cyrus Oguna said the government will spend Sh1 billion to respond to tackle problems associated with floods. He said the ongoing heavy rains have affected 350,000 people, of whom 16,700 have been rendered homeless.