Busia MCAs on Wednesday passed Governor Sospeter Ojaamong’s 2019-20 supplementary budget with amendments. Ojaamong had declined to sign the Supplementary Appropriation Bill, 2019 demanding that the assembly reinstates about Sh190 million it slashed from the Executive’s allocation. Budget and Appropriation committee chairman Linus Asiba tabled the notice of motion on Tuesday afternoon to pave way for debate to unlock the stalemate. The MCAs in April factored in an additional Sh128.8 million bringing the total budget to Sh8.8billion. All 39 members present voted yes giving the governor no option but to sign the bill to law and unlock disbursement of development funds. The assembly gave a nod to most expectations of the governor including his request to factor in Sh6 million for monthly stipends of Community Health Workers and Sh3 million for purchase of receptacles. Others included Sh11 million to purchase a Test Pumping Unit, an increase of health casuals wages from Sh3 million to Sh7.2 million and reinstatement of Sh15 million for the construction of a trailer park. Asiba urged Ojaamong to sign the appropriation bill to unlock development funds while his vice chairman Patrick Omanyala urged the executive to fast-track the implementation of all projects. The Disaster Management Department is the main loser in the Supplementary Budget after the assembly removed Sh55 million meant for the purchase of a new fire engine, Sh10 million for disaster management centre and hived off Sh2 million from the emergency operation fund which now gets Sh11.9 million. Malaba Central MCA Bernard Papa termed the denial of funds for a fire engine to be based in Malaba as unfortunate while Nambale Township's Mwajuma Toloi backed the move. Cynthia Mutere (Nominated) praised the move to remove Sh5 million meant for the construction of the governor’s residence to go towards the purchase of test pumping machine. She, however, criticised the governor's move to remove a similar amount allocated to the installation of lightning arrestors in lightning prone areas. Nancy Okedemi (Nominated) lauded Ojaamong's move to enhance by Sh3 million health workers' wages. Education Committee chairperson Novena Ndaliro said slashing the allocation of policy formulation in ECDE directorate by Sh4.5 million to Sh1.5 million is saddening. Edited by R.Wamochie