The government plans to make a section ofThika-Garissa Highway a dual carriageway, Deputy President William Ruto has said. Speaking on Sunday at a fundraiser at PCEA Church in Makongeni, Thika, Ruto said a 10-kilometre stretch will be constructed from Thika flyover to Makongeni near Ananas Mall early next year. Expansion of the road to a dual carriageway will end to the perennial traffic snarl-ups experienced in Thika as well as open the town for more investments, the DP said. “Thika is an important city as a satellite city for Nairobi Metropolitan Area; improving its infrastructure and easing transport will benefit investors and residents,” he said. The DP also said the government is currently constructing three by-passes at Sh1.8 billion in Thika to ease congestion. The Kiandutu-Athena-Kiganjo-Madaraka Market Road, Ruto said, is 90 per cent complete while the BAT-Del Monte-Nairobi-Nyeri Highway is at 40 per cent. Other roads in works include the Thika-Nampak-Gachagi-Mid Oil Road and the Engen-Athena-Witeithie Road that will link the Thika-Garissa Highway with the Thika Superhighway. “One of the Jubilee government's agenda under the leadership of President Uhuru Kenyatta is to transform this country through infrastructural development that would ease transportation of goods and people,” Ruto said. Thika Town MP Eng Patrick Wainaina, who had hosted the DP, said the roads will greatly open the town which is a major transit point into both Mt Kenya and the Lower Eastern and Northeastern regions. “Thika is an industrial hub for this country and we expect more investments to come up as a result of a convenient roads network once the highway is expanded and the by-passes are complete,” Wainaina said. Ruto was accompanied by his close allies in the region including Ndindi Nyoro (Kiharu), Kimani Ichung’wa (Kikuyu), Simon King’ara (Ruiru), Rigathi Gachagua (Mathira), Moses Kirimi (Central Imenti), Moses Kuria (Gatundu South) and former Thika MP Alice Ng’ang’a. Edited by R.Wamochie