Kenyans are becoming increasingly practical and the advent of compact multi-purpose vehicles (MPVs) is now upon us. Any enthusiast will be impressed by the latest iteration of this car. The second-generation Ertiga is now in the market and largely because Toyota Kenya was discerning enough to know that now is the right time to introduce the all-new Ertiga MPV. When we first saw this car in mid-2014, we gave it a warm reception thanks to its Swift-like looks, nimble handling, affordable price tag and thrifty performance. The all-new 2019 Ertiga has leveled up not only in size, but in style, features, as well as in cabin space. What makes the new Ertiga brilliant? We'll be quick about it: this car is absolutely practical and has all the space you need. Measuring 4395mm x 1735mm x 1690mm, the latest generation Ertiga has grown in every direction. The new car is now longer, wider, taller and lighter than the model it replaces. It goes up against the likes of the Toyota Avanza and Honda BR-V and it is built on Suzuki's new Heartect platform. The car and features a new, more powerful, naturally-aspirated 1.5-litre petrol engine that offers 77 kW and 138 Nm of torque with a 4-speed automatic transmission. Suzuki claims a fuel consumption figure of 6.0 L/100km. Ertiga's ride quality remains uncompromised. This car is comfortable to drive and manages to nicely deliver a smooth and pleasant ride. The car's engine is well refined and the steering is nicely-weighted, providing ample feedback for any driver. The interior is spacious with an improved build quality. Passengers seated on the second-row are afforded generous space in all directions. For added comfort, the seats can recline and this is great for long distance travelling. The third row of seats are easily accessed by flicking a latch on top of the second-row seat, which then slides forward to allow passengers easy access. Even adults can sit comfortably in the third row. Suzuki Ertiga is available in Autum Red, Oxford Blue, Silver, White & Magma Gray colours Should you buy the all new Ertiga? The answer is a definite yes. You can take advantage of the currently available deal that has excited the Kenyan market which came out just this week. Get your brand new showroom car from sh.52,751/= and this includes up to 95% financing, 1 month insurance, full fuel tank and a sh.100,000/= cash discount. This deal is available between November to December 2019 for the first 20 vehicles. All you need to do is register to buy and be among the first 20. If you'd like to experience it for yourself, you can book to see the car on this link. You can also see the all new Suzuki Ertiga at the enthralling auto shows happening over the coming weekends below - Capital Centre, Nairobi (Saturday 23rd November, 2019) - Village Market, Nairobi (Saturday 30th November, 2019) - The Hub, Karen, Nairobi (Saturday 14th December, 2019) Download the brochure here to see more details on this car.