The Judiciary intends to have a High Court in every county to reduce cases backlog, Chief Justice David Maraga said on Thursday. However, this will only happen if the Judiciary is financially enabled to hire more judges and magistrates. “When I ask for more funding, this is not meant for Maraga but it’s towards the construction of more courts and hiring of more judges to dispense with cases faster,” the CJ said. Maraga also said every sub-county would have a magistrate's court when the resources were available. “Nairobi and Kiambu already have two High Courts each and we are planning to open another in Thika so that Kenyans can get justice as fast as possible,” he said. He spoke during the opening of Engineer law courts in Kinangop, Nyandarua. The construction started in 2015 but had delayed due to a number of challenges. “We have had a problem with some contractors who have delayed the construction of the courts under a programme supported by the World Bank and we shall no longer entertain them,” the CJ said. He promised international investors that Judiciary would dispense with their cases as soon as possible. “We have several cases involving international companies pending in courts and I have directed my officers to dispense with them as fast as possible as this will increase investor confidence.” Maraga was concerned by the high number of bhang and illicit brew cases in Kinangop law courts and challenged the churches and the county government to intervene. “We are planning to expand the Ol Kalou and Engineer towns’ law courts and we are asking the county government to support us when it comes to getting land,” he said. Nyandarua Governor Francis Kimemia decried the high number of unresolved land cases – some pending for more than 20 years. He was also concerned by the rising number of serious crimes cases in the county noting that since the year began over 300 cases of murder, robbery with violence among others had been reported. “As a county, we are ready to offer the Judiciary land to construct more courts and the issue of separate cells for minors in custody should be addressed soonest possible,” the governor said. 