National men's roll ball coach Caleb Akhumbi has cited Argentina as their main threat in group stages of the 2019 Roll Ball World Cup scheduled for November 15 -20 in Chennai, Tamil Nadu State, India. Kenya have been drawn in Pool 'C' alongside Argentina, The Netherlands, Sierra Leone, Oman, Guinea and Singapore.  "Argentina may give us a headache in the preliminaries but we shall be steadfast," said Akhumbi. The tactician said he expects tough opposition in their preliminary matches but was quick to note that they are ready for the showpiece. “We have prepared well and we aim to get to the finals this time around. The boys are upbeat and we have fine-tuned all departments and we hope to bring the trophy home,” he added. Bot the men and women's outfits finished third in the fourth WC in 2017 behind winners India and runners-up Iran in both genders. The Kenyan sides went into residential training last Friday at Shauri Moyo's YMCA. The first group drew defending champions India, Senegal, Belarus, Vietnam, New Zealand, Maldives Islands and Saudi Arabia, whereas Pool 'B' consists of Iran, Ivory Coast, Poland, China, Canada, Nepal and Egypt. Bangladesh, Uruguay, Uganda, France, England, Sir Lanka and Latvia make up Pool 'D.' The women's side, who are the 2015 world champions, have been drawn in Pool 'C' too, alongside Egypt, The Netherlands, and Latvia. Neighbours Uganda are pooled in the second group alongside Iran, Maldives Island and Sierra Leone as Pool 'A' have Bangladesh, India, Nepal, China and Vietnam. Senegal, the fifth African women's side is pitted in Pool 'D' Poland, England and Sri Lanka. The Kenyan team comprise 12 players in each gender,  two coaches and nine other officials and will leave the country today in two batches. The team will be accompanied by Elizabeth Yatich from the Ministry of Sports, Lilian Cherono ( chaperon) and Jacinta Nkatha (physiotherapist). Other officials are referees Tobias Onyango and Geoffrey Baraza, Edward Munguti (technical official), Elijah Shiyonga (doctor) and Ephraim Karani (team manager) and Samuel Litaba (head of delegation). WOMEN'S TEAM: Emily Amimo, Angela Kinya, Brendah Andanje, Janet Alusiola, Joan Waithira, Lucy Achieng, Lotts Angaya, Purity Syengo, Maria Ajwang, Stella Nanjala (C), Monicah Ndunge and Winnie Nkatha. MEN'S TEAM: Albert Omware, Albert Mutinda, Allan Amuma, Caleb Mbandu, George Mutie, Gideon Mutua, Joseph Alukhala (C), Kefas Kamanda, Kevin Bwire, Tyson Agunda, Patrick Nyaga and Samuel Muthui.