 Workers of county governments should declare their assets as a way of promoting accountability and aiding the fight against corruption. Nyeri Governor Mutahi Kahiga on Monday said failure to declare one's asset or income makes it difficult to tell whether an officer's wealth is commensurate with his or her earnings. He accused some employees of making false declarations and sometimes failing to declare their wealth completely. “These declarations, therefore, have the potential of increasing accountability in public service and confidence in the government,” Kahiga said in a speech read on his behalf by county secretary Ben Gachichio. He was speaking during the official opening of an integrity workshop organised by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission for newly appointed members of the County Public Service Boards in a Nyeri hotel. The workshop was on implementation of the Leadership and Integrity Act, 2012, and the Declaration of Income, Assets and Liabilities. The governor said if effectively enforced, the declaration of assets and income will complement mechanisms in the fight against corruption. He asked the EACC to employ the approach to instill honesty and transparency in public officers. He said devolution was a fairly new concept and that counties still lacked the technical capacity to implement various legal requirements on declaration wealth. “A number of officers serving in the counties were recruited from the private sector hence face challenges on how to make the declarations, where to submit them, what to do with the declarations once submitted, issues on storage, among others,” Kahiga said. "We hope the workshop will address these concerns as participants share experiences that will help enhance compliance." The governor said corruption remained the greatest hindrance to devolution and development in counties. The workshop was part of a series of ongoing engagements between EACC and County Public Service Boards to promote good governance. Nyeri was hosting the first cluster of county public service boards from Meru, Kirinyaga, Tharaka-Nithi, Embu, Kiambu, Wajir, Mandera, Marsabit, Isiolo and Murang’a counties. EACC commissioner Mwaniki Gachoka, director ethics and leadership Philip Kung’u, regional manager Abraham Kemboi, deputy director for ethics and leadership Kairichi Marimba were present.  edited by peter obuya