The Bungoma county government has attributed reported deaths in Sawa village, Bokoli, to use of contaminated water. The government denied the deaths and sickness resulted from a strange disease as claimed by the residents. County public health officer Moses Wambusi said residents were suffering from typhoid brought about by drinking contaminated water. “Out of the 16 people that visited Bokoli health centre two were found with signs of typhoid that is brought about by drinking contaminated water,” he said. Wambusi said he organised several meetings with Bokoli MCA, the ward administrator, area chief and other stakeholders and cautioned residents against using dirty water but they were still using it. “There are four springs in Sawa area but only one was contaminated. We closed it down because there were pit latrines around but the villagers are still using the water from the same spring. We are not to blame but themselves,” Wambusi said. He dismissed the story about the outbreak of an unknown disease, saying "the villagers should follow instructions and they will be safe”. County director of health Johnstone Akatu said the outbreak was in Sirandafu, Sawa and Maloo villages but denied the disease was unknown. Akatu said the sickness was a result of drinking contaminated water from four wells located near toilets. In addition, Akatu said, other residents suffered from malaria, which he attributed to a quarry in Sawa area that was unprotected and had become a breeding ground for mosquitoes. However, the residents claimed that the two deceased persons suffered from an unknown disease while hundreds are sick. Reports indicate that one person died at Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital in Eldoret while receiving medical treatment while another committed suicide on Sunday evening following unending pain. Residents say the sick complain of headache, diarrhoea, vomiting and aching joints. Sawa village elder Mary Nangendo confirmed the disease had left many residents bedridden. She said majority of the sick were seeking treatment at Bokoli health centre, Kimilili subcounty hospital, Bungoma County Referral Hospital, Webuye county hospital and Dreamland Hospital in Kimilili. Irene Wakhungu said over 10 people from her household had fallen ill and one person recently. Timothy Nyongesa said he suffered paralysis in his fingers and toes, severe headache and back and knee pains. “I visited a medical facility and after doctors took my stool and urine samples, no diseases were detected,” he said.