The Nairobi Summit on the International Conference on Population and Development (ICPD25) was deemed an overwhelming success with over 9,500 participants from more than 170 countries who came with a shared purpose to achieve the ICPD25 goals. The summit was concluded on 14th November with partners making bold commitments to transform the world by ending all maternal deaths, unmet need for family planning and gender-based violence and harmful practices against women and girls by 2030. “The Nairobi Summit represents a renewed, re-energized vision and community working together to act and deliver. Together, we will make the next ten years a decade of action and results for women and girls, keeping their rights and choices at the centre of everything we do,” said UNFPA Executive Director Dr. Natalia Kanem. By the end of the conference, over 1,250 commitments were made by governments, donors, businesses, non-governmental organizations, civil society and other actors to support these goals termed the “three zeros” – zero maternal mortality, zero unmet needs for family planning and zero tolerance towards gender-based violence. The Summit, co-convened by the governments of Kenya and Denmark with UNFPA, the United Nations sexual and reproductive health agency, unveiled critical new data about the cost of achieving these goals. It mobilized more than 1,200 commitments from around the world, including billions of dollars in pledges from public and private sector partners. It also raised the voices of marginalized communities, youth and grassroots advocates, who were able to directly engage heads of state and policymakers about how to realize the rights and health of all people. Among the highlights of the conference was the commitment that by President Uhuru Kenyatta during the official opening of the conference on 12th November. In a statement, he reaffirmed Kenya’s commitment to the noble ideals of ICPD Programme of Action, in line with the framework of Kenya's constitution, national social-cultural values and ethos. Quoting, "In this regard, Kenya commits to doing the following over the next decade to achieve the goals of ICPD Programme of Action; 1. To enhance the country’s population and development programmes through increased budgetary allocations; efficient implementation of programmes and projects; and integration of population issues into the formulation, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of all policies, programmes relating to sustainable development at national, county, and sub-county levels by the year 2030. 2. To ensure that all citizens attain the highest possible standard of health. And, this will entail elimination of the following; preventable maternal and newborn mortality; mother to child transmission of HIV; teenage pregnancies; and new adolescent and youth HIV infections by 2030. 3. Improve support to older persons, persons with disabilities, orphans, and vulnerable children by increasing the core social protection investment from 0.8 percent of Gross Domestic Product to at least 2 percent over the next 10 years. 4. To enhance the capacity of relevant Government institutions to increase availability and accessibility to high-quality, timely and reliable population and related data at national, county, and sub-county levels, disaggregated by income, gender, age, ethnicity, migratory status, disability and geographic location by 2030. 5. To harness the demographic dividend through investments in health and citizens wellbeing; education and skills training; employment creation and entrepreneurship; rights and governance and empowerment of young people by 2022 as outlined in Kenya’s Demographic Dividend Roadmap. 6. To attain universal basic education by ensuring 100 percent transition of pupils, including those with special needs and disabilities, from early learning to secondary education. And in addition, the country will enhance the quality of basic education by fully implementing our Competency-Based Curriculum. 7.  To improve the employability and life-skills of our young people by enhancing quality and relevance of Technical Vocational Education and Training (TVET) in partnership with industries and private sector. 8. Fully implement the Competence-Based Curriculum (CBC) so that learners are equipped with relevant competencies and skills from an early stage for sustainable development by 2030. 9. To eliminate Female Genital Mutilation by 2022. In addition, the country will eliminate all forms of gender-based violence and harmful practices by 2030 through the strengthening of coordination mechanisms and addressing socio-cultural norms that propagate these practices.10. To ensure universal access to quality reproductive health services, including prevention and management of Gender Based Violence in humanitarian and fragile contexts by 2030. 11. To track and monitor the implementation of the ICPD25 Nairobi Summit commitments through the National Council for Population and Development in the State Department for Planning; provided that the commitments are in keeping with Kenya’s Constitution, socio-cultural values and national ethos." Governments including Austria, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Iceland, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Sweden and the United Kingdom, together with the European Commission, committed around $1 billion in support. The private sector also stepped in: Children’s Investment Fund (CIF), The Ford Foundation, Johnson & Johnson, Philips, World Vision and many other organizations announced that they will mobilize some $8 billion in combined new pledges. “There will be no ICPD50. Women and girls around the world have waited long enough to have rights and choices,” said Ambassador Ib Petersen, Denmark’s Special Envoy for ICPD25. “Looking towards 2030, we now enter a decade of delivery during which we will walk the talk and hold all of us to account for the commitments we made in Nairobi.” Over 9,500 delegates from more than 170 countries took part in this radically inclusive conference, uniting behind the Nairobi Statement, which establishes a shared agenda to complete the ICPD Programme of Action.