As players in the local leagues struggle to foot their bills, stocky Western Stima centre half Vincent Omumbo is urging his colleagues to invest their earnings to permanently mitigate the reoccurring financial challenges. Lack of a title sponsor to bankroll the two top tiers in the country has hit players, who solely depend on football, but Omumbo believes by players diversifying their sources of income, the menace will be a thing of the past. The stylish defender, who has a number of businesses in Kisumu is calling upon players to safeguard their future by saving and investing in profit-making ventures during their heydays. The former Tusker player said a long term injury suffered in 2017 during a robbery with violence incident in Kisumu prompted him to expand his businesses and its paying dividends. “Players should invest the little they earn from football. The current situation should serve as an eye-opener to the players and look beyond earning from the pitch," said Omumbo. "A struggling player cannot give maximum output but this should not be the full responsibility of the club. Football career is full of ups and downs and players should wake and safeguard their futures.” He added: “Football to me comes as a part-time job. I broke my arm in 2017 and had to be sidelined for months. I learnt a lot and decided to invest more and at the moment I do not regret.” The former national U-23 player in the meantime revealed his target of winning the KPL title in the seven years remaining in his football career. “I still have sen more years to play and within that period it is my wish to win the league. I have never had the luxury of toasting the diadem but I am hopeful that I will make it before I hang my boots,” he said. Omumbo,29, further tipped Stima to give the title favourites a run for their money following their fine start in the ongoing campaign and depth within the squad. Stima are unbeaten in their opening seven rounds. “We have a good squad this season and I think we will push ourselves to rub shoulders with the best. The technical bench is also comprised of experienced men who have injected discipline and winning instincts,”