A herder has recovered items belonging to one of the women brutally murdered in Katani, Mlolongo, Machakos, on October 26. The Directorate of Criminal Investigations on Tuesday are in possession of a national identity card, two handbags and a bunch of keys belonging to the late Purity Wanjiru from a local administrator. Wanjiru, 35, and her mother Anne Gatiti, 60, were killed by hitmen at their family home in Katani at around 10 pm in what police suspect was an execution staged to look like a robbery. The items were found in a thicket about 300 metres from the home. The keys were for their houses and business premises, which is now closed. On Tuesday, the administrator said the items were recovered by a herder. “The herdsman called my assistant, who, in turn, called me. When we responded to his call, we found the items at a sisal plantation next to Kambi dam, a few metres from the murdered women’s home,” she said. “We have handed over the items to the Mlolongo DCI who will hand them over to the family.” Wanjiru's widower Fredrick Mwangi sustained bullet wounds after he was shot in the hand and thigh. Gatiti was shot as she opened their gate. Wanjiru was killed inside the car. She had just arrived at the gate with her husband. Mwangi was admitted to Shalom Community Hospital in Athi River and discharged several days later. His wife and mother-in-law will be buried on Saturday at their rural home in Ngarira village, Mbeere, Embu county. A source privy to the arrangements told The Star Mwangi was accompanied by detectives to his Katani home after his discharge. The officers towed the vehicle in which his wife was killed to Mlolongo police station. The home has been cordoned off as a crime scene. Wanjiru owned Alice Wines and Spirits depot and a number of depots in Mlolongo and Katani. Mwangi had been one of her drivers before they fell in love and wedded. A GSU officer was arrested in connection with the murder. Anthony Kilonzo revealed that he was hired to kill a mother and her daughter at Katani. He alleged that he was approached by a friend whom he did not identify. “I recorded statements when I was at the hospital and yesterday when I was arrested …I confessed that I was called by a friend to do the job of killing the lady,” Kilonzo told the court. The court, however, cut him short, asking him whether he understood the application. Kilonzo was arrested after staff at a Nairobi hospital where he had visited to seek treatment for bullet wounds alerted the police. He gave information to detectives that led to an operation that led to the gunning down of a second suspect and the recovery of two AK-47 firearms from his parents' home, a few metres from the deceased’s home. Kilonzo joined the GSU in 2015 after he emerged position one in a race during the recruitment exercise in KMC grounds in Athi River, Machakos county. He was raised by her elderly grandmother in Katani and schooled in Katani primary and secondary. Gibson Nyabaga, 26, was shot dead. His parents, Kennedy Hamisi and Grace Kemunto, were arrested, detained for four days, arraigned and released on bond. Nyabaga was buried on Thursday.