Harambee Starlets squad is oozing with confidence ahead of this evening's Caf women's Olympics qualifier against Zambia. Starlets coach David Ouma touted the tough competition for places in the squad that saw Kibera Girls Soccer Academy's  Sylvia Lumasia and Wiyeta Girls' teenager Providence Khasiala earn themselves places in the 20-man final squad. “Our preparations were always about team building and I am happy that we have refreshed the squad to bring in some element of unpredictability in the team,” said Ouma. “All the players have redoubled their efforts since we went into camp last Thursday and have portrayed great resilience in the camp. I believe my team will do a good job,” added the Starlets coach. Despite coming up against a 'Shepolopolo' side that is teeming with international exposure, Starlets forward Mwanahalima Adam remained nonplussed. Zambia line-up boasts the likes of Barbra Banda, Rachel Kundananji and captain Misozi Zulu, all plying their trade in Europe. “We have played more talented nations like Malawi and Ghana and I believe this is a challenge we can overcome. I urge the fans to come out in numbers because we are going to send them home happy,” said the diminutive Thika Queens striker. Skipper Dorcas Shikobe, meanwhile, expressed optimism in tomorrow's game. “Despite the minor setbacks faced by the team, our main focus is on the game tomorrow and I believe we will perform well in the game,” she said. Shikobe promised that she will use her past experience against the 'Shepolopolo' to good effect, having met them on two occasions in 2017 when they drew 1-1 in the Cosafa Cup and in a friendly last year when Kenya won 3-0. Apart from Shikobe, Corazone Aquino and Ali featured in last year's build-up match. “We know Zambia inside out and I hope those who played in the previous matches against them can help the team come up with the best strategy to nullify them and win our home match,” concluded Shikobe. Cynthia Shilatswo of Vihiga Queens, who may start today's game was equally confident. “The game will not be easy but we as a team will not allow Zambia to defeat us at home. We only urge fans to come in large numbers so as to be a source of motivation to us as the team,” she noted. The match is set to kick off at 4 pm EAT at the MISC Kasarani stadium with free entry.