Ushuru assistant coach Abdalla Juma hailed his charges after frustrating National Super League runaway leaders Nairobi City Stars to a barren draw yesterday. City Stars were out to open a nine-point gap lead but were contained by the taxmen who acquired Juma's services from FC Talanta a week ago. Going by the changes rung in the technical bench and calibre of players signed before the season began, Ushuru were deemed as promotion candidates but have found the going tough barely 14 rounds into the season. However, Juma said there is light at the end of the tunnel as their quest to end their three-year stay in the second tier is slowly gathering steam and their fate will be known in the second leg. He said if their performance against City Stars is anything to go by, the two top slots will be theirs to lose at the end of the season. The taxmen have amassed 21 points while Stars have 36. “It was a tough match considering our opponents are still unbeaten but we managed to contain them. It's too early to write us off in the race to automatic qualification. The real contest awaits in the second leg, where boys will be separated from men,” he noted. In other matches played yesterday, Talanta's woes deepened after bowing to 1-0 defeat to debutants Murang'a Seal at the Thika Stadium. Dry coffers at the club have seen the club dish out a walkover and worse still lost Juma to Ushuru. Stephen Mbari scored Muranga's winner in the 29th minute from the spot to take the tally to 21 points. A brace from Elias Mugane inspired Fortune Sacco to a hard-fought 3-2 win over Administration Police. Mugane's efforts were rewarded as Teddian Atuto scored the third goal to reduce Harness Onyango's brace to a consolation. Kenya Police played to a one-all draw against Vihiga Bullets while APS Bomet held Shabana to two all draw at the Narok Stadium. Modern Coast Rangers made good use of their home advantage to floor Migori Youth 1-0. Coast Stima fried Bidco United 3-2 at Mbaraki grounds while St Joseph Youth played Mt Kenya United to a 2-2 draw. Nairobi Stima and Kibera Black Stars match ended in a barren draw.