Senators want Treasury to stop further payments to contractors in the leased Managed Equipment Services project for the counties. Isiolo Senator  Fatumo Dulo, who chairs the Ad Hoc Committee probing the MES project, said they would ask Treasury not to okay any expenditure on the items marred by graft claims. “We will direct you to stop funding MES until we get the truth on this deal that has cost taxpayers billions of shillings in vain,” the senator said. This was even as fresh details emerged showing how state officials rushed the procurement of the leased equipment to the counties. There are revelations that the Health ministry, instead of pursuing the tender through a Public-Private Partnership, as earlier designed, opted for open tendering. Further, there was no multi-agency team that reviewed the project despite the huge amounts of money involved. Acting Treasury CS Ukur Yatani told senators that the Ministry of Health argued the PPP arrangement on the Sh38 billion deal would take longer. He distanced the National Treasury from the mess in the medical kit contract, saying the Health ministry pulled out right before a feasibility study was done. “They indicated on June 22, 2015 that they had an alternative. The communication from their end terminated the relationship with the Treasury as far as the project was concerned,” Yatani said. The PPP procedure requires a feasibility study approved by a PPP committee before the same is evaluated against financial risks. The leased equipment has been shrouded with controversy since inception: Some 19 counties are yet to put them to use for lack of electricity and space. Ex-Auditor General Edward Ouko had flagged the shift from PPP to ordinary procurement, saying it was inexplicable. Governors through their council chaired by Wycliffe Oparanya (Kakamega) told the Committee that they were coerced into accepting the equipment. Senators Moses Wetang’ula (Bungoma) and Dulo reprimanded Treasury, saying as the custodian of the public coffers, they should have initiated some controls. They were joined by Mary Seneta (Kajiado) and Enoch Wambua (Kitui) at the meeting, where the CS concurred that there are unprocedural activities in the MES project. “The programme is good. The execution is the challenge. There are serious issues to do with the implementation. If equipment exists and is not serving its purpose, it is not right,” Yatani said. Wetang’ula questioned the arrangement where money belonging to the counties is deducted at source to settle debts that arose from the deal. “What explains the shift from Sh4.7 billion to Sh9.4 billion? Why was the project extended to 24 more facilities from the initial 98 and the burden shared equally?” Wetang'ula asked. The lawmakers are also demanding explanations on the ministry's introduction of a new element of the project – the Health Information Communication Technology. “Is it normal that a project can be introduced midway without a budget line? When a ministry enters a contract with an entity for Sh5 billion, is it regular?” Wetang’ula asked. “It seems some people avoided the PPP plan to avert accountability. Furthermore, there was no agreement reached between counties and the ministry,” Dulo said. Yatani said the Treasury is not privy to the arrangements that brought the firm executing the HCIT project — Seven Seas — as no advisory was sought by the Ministry of Health. On funding, the CS said the Treasury has no power to define what sectors do with the money allocated to them in the budget ceilings for a financial year. The CS said issues to do with the leased equipment’s functionality and availability of spare parts or lack of the same is within the purview of the Health docket. “The reason for going PPP was to ensure Treasury checked for compliance but after the letter, we did not bother to find out why the ministry was not keen on going that route,” Yatani said. The CS admitted that the move was not procedural adding that the oversight institutions of government are best placed to tackle the issues in the deal. “How the ministry allocates resources in the sector unless it is understood that there is something that is outside their allocations, is their decision,” he said. “We have a limited role in the management of funds allocated to ministries for their respective departments,” the CS added. The PPP team from the Treasury held that procurement decisions are reached by respective ministries, of which they have no control.