Party leaders Musalia Mudavadi (ANC), Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper) and Moses Wetangula (Ford Kenya) on Wednesday said the country had embarked on a new journey to prosperity. Speaking during the launch of the Building Bridges Initiative report at Bomas of Kenya in Nairobi, the trio reiterated that the country was on the path to success as they urged all Kenyans to be part of the process. “Let us be sober in this discussion. Let us interrogate the document. I don't want someone to read the document for me. I want to read it myself. I hope every other Kenya will today rise to the occasion and say 'I am making a decision today because I have read the document and not because Musalia Mudavadi has read it for me',” Mudavadi said. He added that there is a need for a sober debate because the country is going to make serious decisions going forward. “The debate must be all-inclusive. We must listen to each other. We must be persuaded by the logic of the other idea but not by how much the other person has shouted,” he stated. Mudavadi noted that Kenya has a poor history when it comes to constitutional matters. “We have histories of mutilating our Constitution to the extent that what you start with, you don't recognise it many years later. Let us be careful about how we handle the process henceforth." Kalonzo said the BBI report marks the beginning of a new Kenya. “One indivisible united Kenya. If we can empty ourselves of prejudice and even anger, even the Bible says anger does not work out righteousness. This is not the time to be angry,” he stated. Kalonzo said his party will convene a National Executive Council on Thursday to deliberate on the contents of the report. “We have called the National Executive Council. We are going to read and interrogate this document. Let everybody read the report to make informed decisions,” the Wiper party leader said. Kalonzo added that there will be a need for cross-party consultations during discussions about the document. Wetang'ula said the launch of the BBI report heralded a new dawn for the country. He said recommendations of the report would go a long way in improving the ‘political hygiene’ in the country. “We have been insulting each other, arguing and saying a lot of bad things about others. This should now change with the new dawn,” he said. He said leaders and Kenyans, in general, should all participate in making the report better before it is adopted. “Let us all participate in making improvements where need be." Edited by R.Wamochie