"The withdrawal symptoms are like a woman with serious menstrual cramps or gas pain combined with someone stabbing you in the stomach." This is what heroin addict Lisa Marete wakes up to each morning. When she wakes up, Lisa's first thought is getting her first fix to function 'normally'. She needs at least two foils of 0.1 grams in the morning to feel normal. Her dose will cost Sh400. Without heroin, she says, she's "ratting"  — aching, sweating, hallucinating, nauseous. She makes her way to her peddler, her next-door neighbour, in the Mathare slums. Lisa has taken the same journey hundreds of times before. An addict on and off for 20 years, she is now aged 43 years and is walking into the place where she is given heroin.... her eyes fixed on the white powder "Heroin addiction is an expensive habit to feed. My morning dose only costs Sh400. Men pay me meagre amounts of Sh50 for sex," she said. The desperation never ends. She is forced to sleep with at least 10 men to get money for her dose. Even with her prescription of methadone, which is supposed to be a longer-acting substitute for heroin, to help addicts stabilise, she still craves the real thing. Lisa faced violence and struggled to have a normal life, turning to alcohol, sniffing heroin, snorting and now injecting. “I put this before my children,” she says as tears roll down her face. We watch as she injects the drug. She heats the powder in a spoon until it liquefies; it can also be dissolved. She fills a syringe,  ties her arm so a vein bulges, then takes the injection. In five minutes she's in heaven. If the high is "too good," she says she scratches her head her back and her private parts. This has been Lisa’s life for 12 years. In 2018 Nacada said 162,863 people were known to abuse marijuana, which may be laced with heroin and 26,058 abused heroin. The authority is monitoring 25,000 intravenous drug users countrywide but most are monitored. In Mathare supply is not a problem. On May 8, police arrested a 30-year-old man with 100 sachets of heroin. Heroin can be easily accessed obtained in Kampala Ndogo and Kosovo areas. However, the exact source of the drug flooding into the slum still remains unknown.