ODM leader Raila Odinga is revamping his party as he prepares for the 2022 race. A roadmap to be unveiled on Thursday will signal a break from the 2017 National Super Alliance (Nasa) coalition partners. Amani National Congress, Wiper Democratic Movement party and Ford Kenya have indicated that they will be going separate ways with ODM. Raila was to unveil the activities tomorrow but postponed because it coincided with the handing over of the Building Bridges Initiate report to him and President Uhuru Kenyatta. “Due to a clash between our function and the release of the BBI report, the party leader has requested that we push our function to Thursday 28th," reads the communication from Orange House to party MPs. At the exclusive event, Raila will formally open the new party headquarters in Nairobi’s Lavington and also launch a digital membership registration programme. Raila is also expected to give elaborate details of the party elections set for early next year. Last week, the opposition chief said the elections will "inject new blood into the party" ahead of 2022. Director of Membership Rosemary Kariuki told the Star that the party will also launch new communication platforms such as an SMS code, a website and new membership categories. “We have a documentary on the ODM journey and everyone who has been with us will attend. Others who will attend are all party officials at the county level, elected and nominated leaders,” she said. Even as Raila’s party launches its new headquarters, a house-cleaning at the party is underway to ensure a near-complete overhaul of the current secretariat. In the purge, top directors are likely to be shown the door as the party moves to implement an internal task force report which indicted the current secretariat. The report placed the secretariat's inefficiencies at the centre of bungled nomination processes which has been cancer eating the party from within. The current secretariat is expected to be out before the year ends. The party is planning to have a professional team at the Sh170 million new premises. The Secretariat Management Committee, a new party organ formed last year, is spearheading the changes that have sent panic among the current officials. The SMC is said to be planning to engage a professional agency to recruit and recommend names to the board for appointment. Current officeholders will also be allowed to apply for their positions and considered alongside other applicants. Current directors include Joshua Kawino (Finance and Administration), Philip Etale (Communications), Wafula Buke (Political Affairs and Strategy) and Rosemary Kariuki (Membership, Recruitment and Retention). The secretariat is headed by executive director Oduor Ong’wen. ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna said more activities will be unveiled across the country in the build-up to the next general election. Raila has not announced that he will run, but his lieutenants have been operating as if the decision is already made. “ODM is the biggest party in the country and we are customising the office for the party’s current demands so that we can launch and unveil a number of activities,” Sifuna told the Star. It is understood that after the Thursday event, ODM will be announcing its calendar for grassroots elections set for next year and the opening of more party branches in all the 47 counties. “The unveiling of the new office marks a new milestone in the history of ODM. We will also unveil other things alongside the office,” Sifuna said.