Good morning, The Building Bridges Initiative has made radical proposals to alter the structure of the executive and create several new offices, including that of a non-executive prime minister. In recommendations presented on Tuesday could see Kenya go for a referendum before the 2022 polls, the BBI task force wants a premier to picked by the President from MPs in the majority party in the National Assembly. Here are the other stories making headlines in the Star this morning. The DNA on the white straps used to tie the hands of businesswoman Monica Kimani before her throat was slit were of an unknown origin, a court heard on Tuesday. Government analyst Joseph Kimani told the court that the straps, which form part of the exhibits he was required to profile, did not link Joseph Irungu, alias Jowie, to them in any way. The government is grappling with historical pending bills amounting to Sh1.8 trillion, senators heard yesterday. Acting Treasury CS Ukur Yatani told senators that the bulk of the bills are made up of millions in unsettled court awards running for years. The rest of the bills, he noted, consist of legal fees and fines. Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko's executives and top officials will from Friday appear before the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission investigators to record statements in connection with the construction of Dandora Stadium. Suspended executives Mohamed Dagane (Health) and Charles Kerich (Finance) will also be questioned. Plane accidents occur quite regularly but rarely do Kenyans get to hear about them. An investigation by the Star has unearthed details revealing a sector that keeps crucial information top secret to keep spotless the image of Kenya's civil aviation, maintain revenue flow and wash away any insurance queries.  Meru Senator Mithika Linturi produced a divorce certificate as proof that he was single during a traditional marriage ceremony at Marianne Kitany's home.  Linturi is now estranged from Kitany. The two are embroiled in a divorce tussle in which Kitany wants the court to rule that their traditional marriage was valid while Linturi insists he is only married to one wife who is not Kitany. 