The construction industry is set to benefit from an ongoing major conference in Nairobi, as industry players meet to showcase concepts and discuss developments and solutions in the sector. The third edition of ‘The Big 5 Construct Kenya’ kicked off on Wednesday, at the Kenyatta International Convention Centre (KICC), with over 210 exhibitors drawn from 30 countries participating. The event which serves as the official exhibition of the National Construction Week was officially opened State Department of Public Works PS Maj Gen (Rtd) Gordon Kihalangwa. It runs until Thursday. The Big 5 Construct also provides a training platform for professionals in the construction industry by offering 40 free workshops that provide career development points with certification. The workshops are open to the public. “As you are aware the government has embarked on a lot of construction projects and we need to collaborate with other industry players to achieve the best. This event brings together over 200 exhibitors and there is a lot for us to learn from each one of them,” PS Kihalangwa said. Senior Vice President at event organiser DMG events Ben Greenish added: “We are extremely proud to be back for the third edition of The Big 5 Construct Kenya in Nairobi. We continue to witness keen interest from the local building community to develop the industry in Kenya, and we are delighted to provide a platform where they can interact with international players seeking to introduce the latest building products and solutions to the region.” With official support from National Construction Authority, The Big 5 Construct Kenya has brought together over 210 companies in Nairobi for three days of free-to-attend business opportunities. Exhibitors at the event hail from 30 countries including Egypt, turkey, Belgium, Greece and more. Eng. Maurice Akech, Executive Director National Construction Authority  said: "This is a unique opportunity for all industry stakeholders to not only showcase what they have to offer, but to also pick up new, innovative ideas and get a glimpse into the latest industry trends.” “There are numerous business opportunities to be explored by adopting concepts that have worked in international markets, which ultimately leads to both industrial and economic growth,” Akech added. The event showcases products across five of the most popular product sectors including building interiors, building materials and tools, building services, HVAC-R, and Concrete & PMV. Heavyweights such as JCB and Al Hatim Décor are also using the week as a platform to launch several products to the local market. Topics within the workshop series cover relevant themes including project management, architecture and design, sustainable future construction and the all new Disruptive Technology series. The event also hosts the upgraded Women in Construction series, featuring an all-female speaker line up.