We are here at Bomas in Lang'ata. If Kibra is the bedroom Lang'ata is the sitting room. We have come back to Bomas of Kenya, a historical place, where we spent many days, 10 years ago talking about the future of our country. That time we disagreed and we ended up having the Oranges and the Bananas. We have come back here today to start a new journey. You remember on August 13, 2017, we came here invited by the electoral commission to announce the presidential results. We engaged them in an argument. They said they were to come back to announce the winner ...  that did not happen. They later came to announce the results but we did not attend. We found ourselves in the Supreme Court which did its pronouncement. We were not there on October 26, 2017, for reasons that we made clear to the people. You ended up in Kasarani and we ended up in Uhuru Park. We ended up with the President and the people's president. Our people said that now you have been sworn in let us collect all the presidential portraits and torch them. They said let us declare ourselves sovereign, collect taxes and start doing our things. I look at that proposal and said it was like taking Kenya to Somalia. The President's people told him that if anyone else is sworn in that is treason, arrest him, prosecute him and hang him. So arrest Raila now. The President also had an issue with that one. It was under those circumstances that counsel of goodwill prevailed and ended up me and the president having a conversation. It took 19 hours and it was not easy because we had called each other names. Eventually, after all that long deliberations, we now agreed that we had something that we could put together. That is how we then invited some lawyers to put together our views. We told them what we thought was wrong with our society and what needed to be corrected. They then put it together and said we needed to have that conversation amongst ourselves first. We said we were not going to talk about 2022 but 2017 going back so that we can see how to change this country, create wealth and bring the country together. Today I am very happy that we have been joined by our brother from Tanzania. Yesterday (Tuesday) President Magufuli of Tanzania called me and informed me that he had sent his minister to President Uhuru and that he had asked him to be around for today's Bomas meeting. I told him that was significant as he would tell Kenyans how Tanzania is governed. In Tanzania, there is tribalism because of the foundation former President Nyerere established. Nyerere came from a small tribe but became president. So did Mwinyi, Mkapa and Magufuli. Tanzanians don't look at tribes. That is the country we want to build. We agreed that together with the President we shall be able to unite the country. Don't look at the BBI proposals with a view that they intend to create a position for Raila. The changes are not about Raila. Raila will be there today but tomorrow he won't be there. So to the President as well. However, Kenya will remain. We have been talking about corruption. But now we don't want public officers not to do business with the government because that is what causes a conflict of interest. If you are a public servant and want to do business, resign and go to the private sector to do business. The restructuring of the Executive is not meant for any particular person. We also want more resources for the counties to at least 35 per cent. Development expenditure should take 70 per cent while recurrent will take 30 per cent. We want more money on development and do away with benchmarking trips that are wasting money. We want to see a new Kenya. Out of this, a new Kenya is going to be born. The conversation is going to continue. We shall have a committee of experts who will collect views from Kenyans that will improve. Let the report remain with mwananchi. The people would debate it and finally approve. This is the kind of Kenya that we want. A Kenya that is united and reconciled with itself.