The Kenyatta University management has said the hospital it founded will not meet its objectives to teach and train medics if it is run as a parastatal. The Kenyatta University Teaching, Referral and Research Hospital opened its doors to the public last month after lying idle for two years. A management row between the university and the government on who should manage it stalled its operationalisation. The university says it had agreed with the Chinese government on how to repay a loan towards the hospital's construction, dismissing claims it was cash-strapped. The involvement of different ministry officials in the management of the two institutions could cause duplication of roles and compromise services, the university says. Vice Chancellor Paul Wainaina told the Parliament's Committee on Implementation yesterday that they are not opposed to the President’s Executive Order, but it was issued before negotiations on the matter was finalised. In a gazette notice published on January 25, President Uhuru Kenyatta hived off the hospital from the ownership and control of the university and established it as an autonomous parastatal. “Before the order came we were to make a presentation to the Head of Civil Service Joseph Kinyua saying we are able to run the hospital. There was no excuse whatsoever that the university could not run the hospital,” Wainanina told the legislators. The VC said the deal entered with the Chinese government had outlined the first three years as a grace period for the loan. “The university was to begin paying back the loan from the fourth year since by then we would have reached the break-even point. Based on the fact that it is a 20-year loan, we had indicated that we would be able to pay,” he said. The VC noted that should the order be implemented as issued by the President, the university might achieve some of the goals but not all. “If the aspect of training, research and collaboration is put secondary by the board of management then it will be very difficult for us,” he noted. The VC said that the university and the hospital have different strategic plans hence disharmony in their implementation due to pursuant of opposing priorities, thus compromising their core functions. The university now wants amendments to the Universities Act to make provisions for universities to own, run and manage hospitals as an integral part of their academic programmes. “For now we don’t have an intention of challenging the order but we are thinking that going forward we need to have laws on universities running hospitals. It is like doing agriculture but the farm is being controlled by someone else,” he said. Narok North MP Moitalel Ole Kenta who chaired the committee advised the university officials to try and fix another date to try to convince the government on their ability to run the hospital. The Sh8 billion facility is expected to provide specialised treatment, especially for tumours, alongside training and research. It has a bed capacity of 650. Since its inception, the hospital, which is constructed on Kenyatta University land using state-guaranteed loans to be repaid by the hospital, has been owned and managed by the university.