Twins are usually fascinating. They exhibit unique characteristics like behaving in the same manner, wearing simila clothes for identical twins and may also have an eerie connection. If one gets sick, chances are the other will too. If one is sad, the other may feel sadness too even when they are miles apart, with no communication. Anderson Mwatee and his sister Eunice are no different. The two exhibited a high level of intelligence since Class 4 at Maili Kumi Primary,  tucked away in the remote areas of Mwatate in Taita Taveta county. So brilliant were they that they monopolized positions one and two in their class since they were in Class 4. Now, they have put their school on the national map after becoming the first pupils in the history of school to score more than 400 marks in KCPE. Andrew got 413 marks to top the class while his sister Eunice got 408 marks. The third candidate in the school scored 380 marks. “That has been the way since Class 4. The two have been occupying the top two positions with a significant gap between them and the rest,” a teacher at the school said. Head teacher Beatrice Zakayo was not immediately available for a comment. The twins say they want to become aeronautical engineers. “Engines just fascinate me,” said Anderson. “Me too,” Eunice quipped. But it was not easy for them. They used to walk for 45 minutes to school each cold, foggy morning, fearful they might encounter elephants on the way. Anderson told the Star they used to wake up at 4am, study a bit, before leaving home at 6am for school. At school, they would study more before classes started at 8am. “They used to work hard. They even had their own study groups with friends where they used to go to one of their houses for study sessions every Sunday. It was their own initiative,” Phyllis Mwatee, the twins’ elder cousin, said. She was with them in Nairobi, treating them for their excellent performance. “This is the first time they are staying in Nairobi,” Phyllis said. She said the two were disappointed when they first got their results. So high did they set their targets that they did not realise the feat they had achieved. “They wanted to be the top KCPE candidates in Kenya. I could see their disappointment when they heard of their results. I had to cheer them up,” Phyllis said. Anderson said: “It is true I was disappointed at first. But eventually I had to accept it.” However, he beat his sister and that cheered him up. “We used to compete against each other. He used to cry whenever I beat him to position one in class. He beat me in the main one but it is not over yet,” Eunice said. Anderson wants to join Alliance or Mang'u while Eunice wants to join Kenya High or Alliance Girls.