DP William Ruto allies at the weekend promised a relentless campaign against opposition leader Raila Odinga's "retrogressive and violent politics" ahead of the 2022 polls. The Inua Mama Women brigade, Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago and MPs Oscar Sudi and Caleb Kositany said they will intensify their campaign in Raila's strongholds. The group held rallies in Eldoret and Iten on Saturday where they directed their ire against the ODM leader. Sudi and Kositany accused Raila and ODM of the violence in Kibra on November 7, the polling day of the city constituency's by-election. “We accepted that our candidate lost in Kibra but we promise Odinga that he will lose badly in 2022. We stormed his bedroom and took away everything except the mattress which we will soon go for,” Sudi said. Kositany and Mandago said the violence in Kibra was a clawback on the democratic gains Kenya had made. They said they will not allow Raila’s team to use force to gain power. Sudi said the violence was an indication that the BBI team was formed to hoodwink Kenyans and not to build bridges or achieve unity. The women legislators among them Jane Kihara (Naivasha), Cate Waruguru (Laikipia Woman Rep), Jane Nangabo (Trans Nzoia), Purity Ngirici (Kirinyaga Woman Rep) and Gladys Shollei (Uasin Gishu Woman Rep) vowed never to abandon Ruto. “The only handshake that benefited Kenyans is that between President Kenyatta and DP Ruto when they formed Jubilee. This other one with Odinga we don’t even understand what it is,” Kihara said. Ngirici claimed Central Kenya backs the DP and its leaders – except the "few confused elements" were behind him. The women asked the former Prime Minister to retire from politics with some of them accusing him of being the country's political problems. Mandago applauded the Inua Mama, Jenga Taifa Mashinani initiative for empowering women, youths, and people with disabilities. "I want to thank the women leaders for this initiative since it deals directly with the problems facing the three special groups and give solutions to their problems,” the governor said. The Inua Mama group has a membership drawn from the Senate and the National Assembly. The about 50 members toured Uasin Gishu and Elgeyo Marakwet. Kandara MP Alice Wahome, who is the chairperson of the brigade, said women were in the past used by the political class and abandoned after the elections. Shollei said women in rural areas played a key role in putting food on the table and stressed the importance of empowering them. Some 47 Uasin Gishu women, youths and people with disabilities groups were beneficiaries of the Inua Mama, Jenga Taifa visit. They were given welding equipment, car wash and sewing machines, and Meko jikos.