High Court Judge Aggrey Muchelule yesterday spent the better part of his afternoon touring one of the expansive farms belonging to former Cabinet Minister Mbiyu Koinange. He conducted the site visit of the famous Closeburn estate in Kiambu. Lennah Koinange, a daughter of the late minister, seeks to be granted 88 acres that are part of the estate. The tour began from Two Rivers Mall, followed by Karura Community Chapel to Havillan Cornerstone and other properties to confirm the extensive investments in the occupied land. The Closeburn land was originally 692 acres but some portions have been sold. Some 250 acres were sold to Aga Khan Group, 100 acres to Centum and 50 acres sold to Karura Community Chapel During the tour, the judge witnessed the developments made on another 40 acres within the area belonging to David Koinange. He also observed the developments made by Lennah. Lennah says she has for the longest period occupied a large area of Closeburn estate farm, including the dam area where she has undertaken heavy investments in a convention centre compromising a hotel, restaurant, water sports and accommodation totalling about Sh250 million. Documents filed in court indicate she has a dairy farm, greenhouses and other horticultural crops. She says it would be unfair to reduce or relocate her to another part of the estate. But Koinange's fourth widow, Eddah Wanjiru, wants the estate divided equally. She has maintained that each house should get 60 acres out of the remaining 240 acres. Koinange died on September 3, 1981, without a will. He had four wives — Loise Njeri, Ruth Wambui, Margaret Njeri and Edda. The first wife died before Koinange, while the second wife passed on after his demise. Koinange had twelve children from his first two wives Loise Njeri (six children) and Ruth (six children). The said children are all adults aged between 51 and 74. The case has been pending in court for more than 30 years because of disagreements by beneficiaries of the estate, but parties have since tabled their proposals on how they want the wealth distributed.