The Senate ad-hoc committee probing the Sh63 billion leased medical equipment scheme yesterday got 45 extra days to finalise the inquiry. The term of the Isiolo Senator Fatuma Dullo-led committee expired last Friday. But the panel sought an extension because it was yet to receive some witness statements in the probe. “We may not necessarily exhaust the 45 days but we need some time to listen to some witnesses including Kebs and the international contractors,” Dullo said. Dullo said the committee was yet to grill PFK Kenya, a financial consultant that advised the Ministry to lease instead of a direct purchase. Also yet to be grilled are the Kenya Bureau of Standards and Belco Company and its local agent — Angelica — that supplied some of the equipment. In a motion tabled by the committee vice chairman Moses Wetangula (Bungoma), the team stressed the need for more time to produce a  comprehensive report. “I got to walk with the committee and had an opportunity to go to Mombasa, Kilifi and Tana River. For sure the work is heavy and they should be given more opportunity,” Tana River Senator Ali Wario said. The extension came as the committee yesterday intensified the probe on the scheme. Yesterday, the panel sent away local directors of the General Electric East Africa for the second time for failing to provide the ‘real’ owners of the company. Further, GE sub-contractors Carestream and Seven Seas, the firm’s local agents charged with distributing digital dental imaging system, digital capture computed radiography and digital imagers (dry system film printers) were absent. General Electric East Africa was awarded a Sh24 billion tender to supply radiology infrastructure modernisation in 98 hospitals across the country. “We want to see the directors of the GE here and their local agents, Seven Seas and Carestream. GE East Africa does not manufacture any equipment, it is but a trading post,” Bungoma Senator Moses Wetangula said. We cannot proceed without the directors and in their absence, we need proof of the Power of Attorney, he said. Seven Seas was also supposed to install Healthcare Information Technology (HCIT) as part of the Medical Equipment Services flagship projects undertaken by the Jubilee government to ensure the delivery of quality healthcare. Health CS Sicily Kariuki to the committee two weeks ago that the HCIT component of the contract was not signed and no shilling had been spent on it. HCIT  would have allowed the hospitals without radiologists to digitally transmit patients’ images for review by radiologists in other facilities and localities. “HCIT solution was procured at Sh4.7 billion for four years translating to an annual payment of Sh970 million. However, the project stalled and no payment has been made to the contractor,” Kariuki said. Besides M/S General Electric East Africa Services, other international firms that supplied the leased equipment are M/S Esteem Industries Inc and Mindary Biochemical Electronic Company M/S Esteem supplied theatre equipment worth Sh8.8 billion and M/S Shenchem Mindary supplied other theatre equipment worth Sh4.5 billion. Others are M/S Philips Medical Systems which supplied ICU equipment worth Sh3.6 billion.  M/S Sysmex Eorope GMBH supplied laboratory equipment worth Sh2.9 billion. And M/S Bellco Ltd supplied Renal equipment worth Sh2.3 billion to the Counties.