OPPO has made big strides in design and style in their devices. This is seen in their newest member of the Reno family - the Reno 2f. The Reno 2f brings together all the aspects of a smartphone, and is a downright stunning piece of hardware. From the generally great design to the high-quality construction, this is a phone that screams luxury. From a distance, you wouldn't really know this is a mid-range device. Its stylish design, excellent screen, and the quad-lens camera on the rear give it all the features of a premium device. The device comes standard with 8GB of RAM, which is one of the highest in the country currently, 128 GB of ROM and runs with the Mediatek MTK P70 processor. The Reno 2F uses a 4000mAh battery with VOOC Flash Charge 3.0. This feature ensures that it takes roughly 30 minutes to charge your smartphone up to 50 percent charge. A full day of reasonably heavy use is no hassle for the phone.  The device runs thanks to OPPO’s ColorOS 6.1 which uses Android Pie. The device has a plastic body with a relatively large 6.5 inch 2340 x 1080 pixel-dense screen. This screen is covered by Corning Gorilla Glass 4 to ensure it doesn’t break easily. The back features its quad-camera array. The Reno 2f comes with a number of photography-enhancing features, including a 48MP quad camera setup and 5x hybrid zoom aided by 20x digital zoom. The phone's ultra-dark mode allows users to enjoy ultra-clear night shots picking up details invisible to the human eye. There is also an 8MP wide-angle camera with an f.2.2 aperture. The ultra-steady video bringing ‘action camera’ level exceptionally clear and smooth video that may interest younger Kenyans who are into vlogging. There are two 2MP cameras where one is a ‘mono’ camera and the other a ‘secondary camera.’ which is weird. The four lenses that make up the rear camera are vertically arranged on the back The ultra-steady video bringing ‘action camera’ level exceptionally clear and smooth video that may interest younger Kenyans who are into vlogging. The company also showcased its new Smart Video Editor which makes it easy for users to edit videos shot. The feature can automatically add music to match with the timing and transitions of your footage. The OPPO Reno 2F comes with a new design for its fingerprint scanner. It is not at the back or front bottom as traditionally placed. Instead it has an optical one under the screen. Oppo says that this new sensor is faster at unlocking and has a brighter unlock area which means it will be faster to unlock compared with its predecessor. The Reno 2F comes in Sky White and Lake Green colors. It will be available locally in various OPPO branded retail stores across the country and from online store at Sh39,999.