A multi-million public library in Voi is nearly complete and will be opened early next year, acting Kenya National Library Service CEO Jack Wafula has revealed. While leading other education stakeholders on a tour of the facility, Wafula said more than 5,000 reading materials are ready for stocking in the Sh23 million modern library. “Once opened, the library will be handed over to the county government and is expected to cultivate a culture of learning among residents apart from creating a good learning environment,” Wafula said. He said KNLS is closely working with county governments to empower residents through the establishment of well-stocked information and knowledge resource centres. "KNLS provides a wide range of library and information services to people of all walks from life. Information is principally essential for social-economic development and proper political governance, especially in today’s knowledge-driven economy,” the CEO added. The facility with children study rooms, public study halls and a conference hall was set up through the Voi National Government Constituency Development Fund. It is one of the region’s education flagship projects. Once opened, it shall be the second public library in the county after Wundanyi library. Voi MP Jones Mlolwa noted that apart from boosting learning, the facility will create employment to tens of residents. “Locals shall be given the first priority in jobs. We want to appreciate our qualified and jobless youth by giving them these jobs,” Mlolwa said. He urged students to utilise the library to excel in education adding that more revision materials are set to be stocked. Students will also receive mentorship programmes and access to career guidance services, he said. Taita Taveta Education executive Daniel Makoko lauded the legislator for the completion of the project. He stressed on the need for instilling a reading culture in society. “Let people from all walks of life come and read because this is a public facility,” Makoko said. Edited by R.Wamochie