The Judiciary is still bankrupt weeks after Treasury said it had released funds meant for its operations. LSK's South West Kenya Branch boss Wilkins Ochoki said services in many courts are slowly grinding to a halt due to a cash crisis. "There is still nothing going on, even stationary for writing rulings have run out further complicating the dilemma the courts are currently grappling with," Ochoki said in Kisii on Monday. He said it was unfortunate that a very important arm of government was being subjected to misery at the expense of services to citizens. "Judiciary plays a key role in the dispensation of justice and when it is thrown into a financial crisis like this one, the common man suffers the most," the Law Society of Kenya official said. Financial tribulations in the Judiciary were exposed by an angry Chief Justice David Maraga on November 4 during a live press conference. The CJ is livid over delays by government to disburse funds meant for its operation, an issue he attributed to cartels "that want him kicked out from the office for refusing to play ball with those in power". The National Treasury was especially accused of unfairly targeting courts in its austerity measures as budgets for Parliament and the Executive balloon. Treasury Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yatani had proposed drastic budgetary cuts on recurring and development budget of up to 50 per cent in the Judiciary. Maraga said the cuts have made it difficult for the Judiciary to meet expenses of even for basic items like toilet paper. Magistrates and judges have been further hamstrung making it difficult for them to visit outlying satellite courts to hear cases. Soon after the criticism, Treasury said it would release the funds. But Ochoki said Treasury was out to play Public Relations with the public and no cent has been released. "It is absurd for the government to play tricks with such a serious arm as the Judiciary." Tribunals have since closed shop and access to justice has been limited, he said, adding that amid the cash crunch, the Judiciary still suffers a shortage of magistrates and judges. Ochoki now wants MPs to press the government to act and salvage the Judiciary from its financial state. Edited by R.Wamochie