A provisional squad of 28 boxers have been named to start preparations for the Tokyo 2020 Olympics qualifiers slated for Senegal in February next year. The fighters were selected after the final round of the Boxing Federation of Kenya league that ended in Kisumu over the weekend. The team is made up largely of fighters who represented Kenya at the All African Games in Morocco mid this year. Kenya Police's 'Chafua Chafua' dominates the list after they claimed yet another league title on Sunday. Police won nine of their 11 bouts in the Millenium City. They finished the season with 122 points followed by KDF (42 ) and Kibra ( 38). The highlight of Police's victories was no doubt the win in the heavyweight category where international boxer, Elly Ajowi exerted revenge for his defeat in the previous round in Nanyuki by defeating Kibra's Joshua Wasike through a unanimous points decision in each of the three rounds. Both have made the preliminary squad. "The fight against Ajowi was good. According to me, I won the fight. It is what it is. However, I thank God for making it to the national team," Wasike said in the aftermath of his defeat. All African Games silver medalist Shaffi Bakari (Police) suffered the shock loss of the round as his flyweight fight against Duncan Kamau (Thika) was abandoned. Shaffi, however, still made the team. Other notable inclusions in the team are lady boxers Elizabeth Andiego (Kentrack) and  Christine Ongare (Police). The duo posted vital wins as they gear up for the qualifiers. Andiego defeated Elizabeth Akinyi (Police)  in the 75kg category while Ongare easily saw off Kenya Defense Forces' Veronica Mbithe in the 49 Kg category. Provisional Squad Men: Shaffi Bakari, David Karanja (fly), Martin Oduor, Nick Okoth (feather), Ethan Maina, Joseph Shigali, Victor Odhimba, Azaad Nazir (light), Boniface Mogunde (welter), George Cosby, Edwin Okongo (middle) Humphrey Ochieng, Hezron Maganga (light-heavy), Elly Ajowi, Joshua Wasike (heavyweight), Fredrick Ramogi, Tobius Okeyo (super heavy) Women: Christine Ongare, Veronicah Mbithe (fly), Ann Wanjiru, Alice Waiyego, Pauline Chege (light), Beatrice Akoth (light welter), Stacy Ayoma, Everline Akinyi, Lorna Kusa (welter), Elizabeth Andiego, Elizabeth Akinyi (middle)