Former news anchor Jacque Maribe’s house girl yesterday recounted events of the night when the journalist’s ex-fiancé Joseph Irungu, alias Jowie, allegedly shot himself. Pamela Kembo told the court that at around 1 am in the morning of September 21, she was woken up by Jowie’s screams. He screamed towards Brian Kasaine’s house calling for help. When Kembo stepped out of her bedroom, she saw Jowie’s clothes at her door. Maribe and Jowie have been charged with the murder of businesswoman Monica Kimani. They had denied wrongdoing. Monica was found murdered at her Lamuria Gardens apartment in Kilimani, Nairobi, in September last year. Kembo said her room was downstairs, while Maribe’s bedroom was upstairs. Jowie’s clothes and belongings were strewn downstairs. A minute later, Kasaine and his wife Catherine rushed into the house looking for Jowie’s identity card. They said they could not take him to hospital without it, the housegirl said. ”Jacque then came from upstairs and the three of them went to her car. Jowie was lying at the back seat bleeding.” Kembo said blood oozed from Jowie’s shoulder and he was wearing a vest. Kasaine, his wife and Maribe left for the hospital and Kembo went upstairs to check if Maribe’s child was okay. “I saw their bedroom light on and decided to go switch it off. That’s when I saw a gun and bloodstains on the floor near their bathroom,” she said. She did not touch anything, went downstairs and called former Citizen TV anchor Terryanne Chebet and told her Jowie had been taken to hospital after apparently shooting himself. Kembo worked for Maribe after Chebet lost her job at Citizen in 2016. Chebet took her to Maribe’s house. She said when she called, Chebet told her to get back to bed but she couldn’t sleep and so she sat in the sitting room. Maribe, Jowie and Kasaine returned at around 4 am. “After Kasaine had taken Jowie upstairs, he left for his house. Maribe also went to the bedroom and they slept,” Kembo said. In the morning, she gathered Jowie’s clothes that were downstairs and took them away so the child “does not ask what his dad’s clothes were doing on the floor”. Kembo said Maribe’s mother visited that morning and Jowie went downstairs to greet her. It was a Friday and Maribe left for work at 3 pm. Her mother later left with the child to spend the weekend with her. “Later that evening, Brian came and asked for the car key, saying he was taking Jowie back to hospital,” she said. Kembo gave him the key. He went upstairs to pick Jowie and the two left and did not come back, she said. Maribe returned home the following day — on Saturday morning— and Kembo asked for a day off. She told the court she spent the night at Chebet’s house and went back to Maribe’s on Sunday evening because Maribe’s father was bringing her child as he was to go to school the next day. “Jowie was brought back on Monday evening by Kasaine at around 6 pm. I was the only one in the house with the baby,” Kembo said. Maribe came back from work at 8 pm. That night, Kembo went to bed early and did not hear anything until the next morning when she woke up and saw police officers in the house. “I saw policemen who had guns coming from the master bedroom. It’s Maribe who opened the door for them. They left at 7.20 am with Jowie,” she said. The court heard that Maribe later left for work using a taxi at around 8 am. Jowie came back at 2 pm with the officers in tow and he told her to take the child to Kasaine’s house. The police left at 6.30 pm alongside Jowie. When Kembo went back to lock the house, she realised it had been searched. Maribe’s father called and told her to take the child to Buruburu because they “would not be staying in that house in its condition at the time”. The next day, following the events, she asked Maribe’s mum to give her fare so she could go back to her home in Kitale. “I had called Terryanne and told her I was going home, but she told me to go to her house in Kilimani instead of going to Kitale. So I went to her house in Kilimani with the money Maribe’s mum gave me.” She still works for Chebet. Kembo testified that she never had any quarrel with Maribe during the period she worked for her — close to two years. She added, however, that at times Jowie got angry with her “for no apparent reason” and at one time he accused her of stealing rent. “In August 2018, I wanted to resign, but Jacque’s mum begged me to stay, so I did,” Kembo said. During her early days at Maribe’s house, Jowie would come over but not often. But, when they moved to a bigger house, he moved in with two suitcases. Maribe told Kembo he worked for the army in Dubai and at State House. Kembo said Jowie used to take Maribe to work and return to the house to sleep, before going back to pick her in the evening. One day she was shocked to see Jowie having a gun in his pocket. When she asked Maribe about it, she was told the nature of his job demanded it. In cross-examination, Jowie’s lawyer Hassan Nandwa asked her who was buying food at the house and she said only Maribe did because she worked at Citizen. Nandwa asked if she ever saw any of the money written Citizen and how sure she was that the journalist bought food using her salary. Kembo said Jowie bought food from time to time after he moved in. However, when asked if she knew who provided rent, she said didn’t know. Meanwhile, Jowie will know whether he will be granted bail in February next year. This is after Justice James Wakiaga said he will rule on his bail application a day before Valentine's. The case resumes in March next year.