Bandari coach Bernard Mwalala has attributed the team's 3-1 defeat against Western Stima to fatigue and wastefulness. He said their pleas to have the game postponed was rejected. “We played away in Guinea against very tough opponents then had a 14-hour flight to Kenya and then faced the same opponents in Nairobi. We asked for the game to be postponed but we were told we must play,” said an angry Mwalala. He added: “In the first leg, we played well and led 1-0. However, we couldn't sustain the pressure because my players got tired." Mwalala though also blamed his players for failed to convert several scoring chances. "They lost concentration in the second half,” he said. He said considering the Dockers have a lean squad, he was forced players most players who had played against Horoya. At the same time, Mwalala refused to comment on reports linking him to Dar-es-Salaam giants Yanga, where he is expected to replace Congolese tactician Mwinyi Zahera who was sacked after the team exited CAF Confederations Cup. Boniface Muwkasa was named acting coach. “Kindly I don't want to comment on that. My focus is on the next game against Ulinzi Stars,” added Mwalala who played for Yanga in his hey-days. Meanwhile, Western Stima coach Salim Babu was over the moon after the team maintained their unbeaten record. “I told the players at half-time that this is a must-win. I'm happy we piled pressure on them and won emphatically. We had enough time to prepare for the game unlike our opponents,” said Babu. Babu, who clinched the SJAK/Fidelity Insurance Coach of the Month for August and September added: “We want to collect as many points as possible in the first leg. We take all our games like finals.” Babu also gave Kisumu Day Secondary School prodigy Benson Omalla his debut after his six months stint with the Lakeside outfit. “He is a young player whom I don’t want to rush. Maybe in the next game, I will give him 10 minutes,” said the coach. The power men will play Homeboyz on Sunday in Kakamega. During the game, Abdalla Hassan gave the visitors the opener in the 30th minute. Goalkeeper Samuel Odhiambo pulled the teams level when he slotted home a penalty past his opposite number Justine Ndikumana in the 47th minute. It was Odhiambo's second goal of the season. Brian Otieno scored into his own net in the 49th minute before Baron Oketch wrapped up the scored for the powerful men in the 52nd minute.