The hills around Meru County will reverberate with the roar of turbo-charged machines when the KCB Meru Rally gets underway in Nkubu on Saturday. The rally will be flagged off Meru County Governor Kiraitu Murungi at the KCB Nkubu Branch. Scrutineering will kick off the event’s program at Nkubu Heritage Hotel Gardens on Friday and drivers will be out on a recce to familiarise with the rally route well in time on the same day (6 am to 6 pm). According to Clerk of the course, Hellen Kagendo Shiri, the rally will run 80 per cent on public roads with the designated spectator viewing point being based at the ASK Showground in Meru. “We are not encouraging spectators on the rally route when the stages are live as we have set aside a designated spectator viewing point for all and sundry at the ASK Showground. We have a total of 500 safety marshals along the route on the rally day and half the number during recce.” “In addition, we have a total of 100 police officers and traffic police to help with the smooth running of the rally. We also have an additional 100 personnel from the Meru Youth Service and we are working hand in hand with Boda-Boda who have been briefed accordingly on safety,” said Shiri. With torrential rains pounding the route course over the past one month, there is a likelihood of a wet rally. Shiri, however, noted that roads in Meru are all-weather and will be passable during the event. The rally will traverse stages around Kenya Re at Meru Forest, the ASK Showground which is the designated spectator stage, Kinoru Tea factory, Ntugi, Muungania and Kiraitu Road. The 5km spectator stage will be repeated thrice to enable fans to catch action the whole day. The weekend event has attracted over 20 drivers including series champion Carl ‘Flash’ Tundo, log leader Baldev Chager, African Champion Manvir Baryan and Onkar Singh Rai. Homeboys include KNRC Premier Class Eric Bengi, Division Two leader Issa Amwari and his partner Job Njiru. The KCB Meru Rally is being organizsed by Rally Sports Club (RSC) under the chairmanship of Phineas Kimathi.