Taita Tavetaleaders are considering collaboration with other regions that failed to meet the required population threshold in the recent census to safeguard their constituencies. The county faces losing at least one of its four constituencies, with the least populated legislative areas to be scrapped. Former Governor John Mruttu said that, despite the region posting increased growth in the 2019 Census, the constituencies still remain unprotected. Mruttu said it was critical for county leaders and opinion leaders to collaborate with counties under a similar threat to achieve bargaining power to retain the four constituencies. He said it was necessary to review the population quota per constituency set out in Article 89 of the Constitution. In a meeting on Monday involving county leaders, technocrats and experts from Taita Taveta University, the leaders resolved not to protest against the results of the highly contested census. Instead, they decided to partner with other at-threat regions to push for a constitutional amendment. It would lower the required minimum size of a constituency. “Unlike other leaders who have been blaming the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics for not giving actual data, we are now focusing on saving our constituencies. We shall extend the consultation to other counties that are facing the same problem. This region is not ready for the merger,” Mruttu told journalists. A constituency's population must be higher or lower than its quota by 40 per cent for cities and sparsely populated areas and by 30 per cent for other areas. The quota is reached by dividing the total population by the 290 constituencies. The population threshold for a constituency was last set at 133,000 people. Mruttu said some 27 constituencies could be scrapped in the forthcoming boundaries review. “The law should be amended to protect the listed constituencies and the boundary review exercise halted,” he said. Economist Prof Maurice Ogada revealed that if the review takes place, only three Taita Tavets constituencies would meet the threshold. According to the 2019 Census, Taita Tavetahas a population of 315,943. Ogada said, however, that contrary to previous years, the county had projected an impressive growth, thus, putting to rest doubts about achieving the required population. “The Taita Taveta community has been small since Independence, but the recent census has rekindled new hopes. There was a 19.7 per cent growth in 2019 compared to barely 15.4 per cent growth posted in the 2009 Census,” Prof Ogada said. Further, he said the merger might undermine the region's economic growth as the national allocation for the National Government Constituency Development Fund would also be lost. “Depending on the formula used in computing the boundary review, the county can only meet a population quota for 2.9 constituencies. This means we shall lose the CDF kitty for one legislative area that shall be scrapped,” he said. Political analyst and businessman Hamisi Chome said a reduction of the county’s constituencies will adversely affect the citizenry in many aspects, including representation, funds allocation and employment. “Certainly we have to engage the community to come up with mitigation measures; otherwise the merger will be messier for this region.," Chome said. "We know there is a possible loss in employment opportunities because, as we all know, employment of people in the armed forces, police and teachers among other departments fall along the subcounties,” Chome said. (Edited by V. Graham)\