Huawei has announced that its annual ICT Competition has had a record 6,400 applications from more than 60 Universities across Kenya. As part of the competition, Huawei offers all participants access to free courses and learning materials. This is the fifth Huawei ICT competition, including both a Network Track and a Cloud Track and has attracted more than 100,000 students from over 1,600 colleges and universities in 61 countries. The top 100 students have been trained during the boot camp at the University of Nairobi and Zetech University in HCIA (Huawei Certified Internet Associate) certifications in Routing and Switching, Security and Cloud in the process of preparing to compete in the four-hour national final lab exam on Wednesday for tech prizes and a trip to South Africa for the regional final. Through Huawei’s ICT Competition, Huawei aims to provide students with a platform to compete and exchange ideas in order to enhance their ICT knowledge, practical and application skills. The competition is also a platform that facilitates connections between international talents as the winners of the Kenyan national competition will go on next year to the regional final in South Africa and then possibly to the global final in China. "The talent ecosystem is the foundation of our strategy. In this ecosystem, talent is the most important factor that ensures the vitality and continuous growth of the industry. Over the past 30 years, we have made many efforts to train ICT talent by sharing our knowledge and best practices. We team up with educational institutions, industry associations, and partners to build a platform to foster ICT talent," Ma Yue said. Ma Yue is the vice president of Huawei Enterprise BG, President of Huawei EBG Global Sales and also the President of Huawei EBG Partners and Alliances. Ma Yue added that Huawei aspires to build global standards for the development and certification of ICT talent. Along with the ICT Competition, Huawei has agreements with 28 Universities and Training Institutes in Kenya as ICT Academies.