Garissa Governor Ali Korane has urged his Tana River counterpart Dhadho Godhana to stop invading his territory and inciting communities by proposing development projects on the 'Garissa side'. Speaking in Nanighi, Fafi subcounty on Monday, Korane said his administration will push for abolition of what he termed "colonial three-mile rule" that pushed the Tana River county boundary three miles inside Garissa county. "We will push through legal means that will recognise the Tana River as the boundary between Garissa and Tana River counties," Korane said. "In the meantime, Dhadho should suspend all proposed projects on Garissa side." He said Garissa county occupies a 400km stretch along the River Tana that separates the two counties. Korane said he will first initiate talks with Dhadho to ensure that peaceful co-existence between communities living in the now disputed border prevails. "Even international standards recognises major rivers as boundaries between communities and nations. What is unique with ours?" Korane asked. Tana River county director of communication Steve Juma on Monday told the Star that Governor Dhadho had been made aware of what had been said by his Garissa counterpart. He said they will "respond at an appropriate time". "I have shared with the governor all that. He wouldn't wish to say anything that would disrupt the peaceful coexistence between the communities living in those areas," Juma said on the phone. Korane had said Tana River residents who are willing to settle in Garissa should coexist with local communities and stay as residents of Garissa county. "Anyone pursuing any expansionist mission is chasing a wild dream and I will not hesitate to take the necessary action," the governor warned. The governor, who was accompanied by Deputy Governor Abdi Dagane and Fafi MP Abdikarim Osman, assured residents of Bura town that the ongoing subcounty headquarters offices and the state lodge will be ready in a month and will create job opportunities for residents. During a visit by the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI), Korane told the committee that they want the 'three-mile rule' abolished if it exists in the Kenyan statutes. Efforts to reach governor Dhado on phone failed as he did not pick calls placed on his phone nor did he respond to text messages. 