The Kenya Medical Practitioners Pharmacists and Dentists Union has sued the Health ministry and KNH board over the construction of a private wing at the hospital. In an application filed in court yesterday, KMPDU has accused CS Sicily Kariuki and Kenyatta National Hospital of failing to involve the public before advancing the decision to construct the facility.  “The respondents ought to have involved the public, particularly stakeholders including the applicant [KMPDU] and its members,” the application reads. The union says there is no goodwill of the project. “The project is a scheme to privatise public healthcare in the country for profits that would benefit a few individuals,” court papers read. They further argue that the project would hurt the right to healthcare as guaranteed in the Constitution. “The plan is to allow the private developer to exclusively operate the facility for 30 years while collecting massive profits being protected as a state corporation as a means to recoup the investment,” the union said. They further said the 30-year period is impractical and inordinately long and does not benefit the public in any way. The union is seeking conservatory orders to restrain the respondents from carrying on with the proposed private facility pending the hearing and determination of their application. In October, KNH sought an investor to build a new 300-bed private hospital within its grounds. The project, first announced early last year, is set to be the country’s first healthcare project undertaken under a Public-Private Partnership and is to sit on five acres with access to Mbagathi and Hospital roads. In the project status report, KNH said the investor would run the facility for 30 years to recover their costs and make a profit before transferring it to the state. If materialised, the project will consist of a minimum 300-bed main hospital,  a 40-bed step-down (general bed) facility, doctor’s plaza and multi-storey parking lot that can hold 500 cars. Edited by R. Wamochie