Police have cast doubts on an incident in which a woman was allegedly robbed of Sh70,000 at an M-Pesa shop in Mlolongo, Machakos county, on Wednesday. Detectives investigating the case believe the theft could have been orchestrated to look like a robbery. They doubt the suspects used excessive force or whether there were shooting threats during the incident as narrated by the victim. Resley Mutune claimed she was robbed of more than Sh70,000 from an M-Pesa shop at gunpoint by two men in broad daylight. “A man came to my M-Pesa shop pretending to be a client. He asked if he could withdraw Sh50,000 and I told him he could. He was talking to someone on the phone whom he read to the agent's number. He then asked if it was Nextcom and I told him yes. He later asked if he could withdraw Sh60,000 but I just looked at him,” Mutune said. She added, “He ordered me to give him Sh70,000 brandishing a gun at my baby, threatening to kill her saying it was not a toy. I panicked and surrendered all the money to him and he walked away.” CCTV footage seen by the Star shows the victim running towards the suspects after she surrendered the cash as the main suspect escapes in a high-end car. “We doubt whether there was any gun in this incident. We haven’t identified one so far in the CCTV footage that we have reviewed,” a detective told the Star on Wednesday. Police questioned how Mutune could run after the main suspect if indeed he had brandished a gun at her and threatened to shoot the child before she surrendered the money. They suspect foul play. “It could be that the victim is well known to the suspects,” the officer said. It is alleged that the main suspect had sent two boda boda operators to pick for him some bags of cement from hardware away from the scene of incident so as to avoid being noticed before he allegedly committed the crime. “I ran after him as he walked to the car parked metres from the M-Pesa shop. I went to the side of the co-driver shouting, stop, stop, stop, banged the door but they sped off. I then asked a boda boda operator to help me follow them but the car disappeared,” Mutune said. Police said the victim’s narrative had lots of gaps and questions. An officer also questioned why the victim reported the matter to Mlolongo police station six hours later. Amidst claims from residents of escalating insecurity in Mlolongo, Athi River subcounty police commander Samwel Mukuusi urged locals to give timely information to security agencies. “Security starts with each one of us. Let us volunteer information to security agencies for a quick response. We shouldn’t keep silent and continue complaining,” Mukuusi said. Investigations into the M-Pesa shop incident are ongoing, although no suspect had been arrested by press time. In another incident, on Wednesday residents found the body of Dennis Barabara lying in a trench at Mlolongo Phase 3 estate. The body with deep cut wounds was removed to City Mortuary by officers from Mlolongo police station.