Mau forest squatters evicted in 2009 have become first-line forest defenders. They are raising indigenous seedlings to rehabilitate swathes of Southwestern Mao forest that have been destroyed. The Kesegenik Youth Group runs several nurseries for indigenous seedlings. Ndoinet Community Forest Association vice chairman Paul Koech said residents in the area have come to understand the need to protect the forest. These community efforts contain lessons for current evictees — if they have alternate land. "We came together in 2018 and agreed to start nurseries. We have since sold close to 3,000 indigenous trees," he told the Star. The community collect seeds that fall from indigenous trees and raise them in nurseries. The Southwestern Mau forest reserve is the largest bloc covering 148,263 acres. Rivers within t include the Kipsonoi, Itare, Nyangores and others Conservation NGO Rhino Ark operates in both Eburu forest reserve and  Southwestern Mau. Mau landscape coordinator and resource development manager Eric Kihiu said they are providing technical support and coordinating quarterly forest aerial services. These include surveying and dropping seedlings in biodegradable bags. Kihiu said communities living adjacent to forests must be provided alternative livelihoods to ensure that they do not encroach. "We have also trained them in modern bee farming because the demand for honey is greater than the supply," he said. The community traditionally has been beekeepers. Kihiu said communities also are taught value addition to their products. More than 500 community members have been trained. More than 15 nurseries have been established along the 30-kilometre cutline. One of the beneficiaries of modern beehive training is Daniel Maritim. He has a traditional beehive that doesn't yield much honey. "I was trained on value addition and branding to make more money," he said. Ndoinet Forest station senior forester Alfred Cheruiyot said the law allows community forest associations to help in forest conservation. "More than 20,000 hectares were degraded," he said, adding that the aim to rehabilitate at least 20,816 acres. Cheruiyot said the evictees were moved out of the forest between 2009 and 2013. Providing alternative livelihoods ensures there is no pressure on forest resources, he said. "We also train them how best to manage their livestock as they normally keep large herds," Cheruiyot said. It's necessary to train young people on how to protect the environment while they are children, he said. The senior forester said illegal logging, charcoal burning and migration of huge herds of livestock between Maasai Mau and Southwestern Mau and Eastern Mau previously posed a major challenge. But the situation has improved greatly, he said. Already, the Ndoinet Ogiek Community Forest Association is active, having been registered in 2012. A five-year participatory forest management plan was signed in December 2018. Some community members are challenging it. (Edited by V. Graham)