Your customer is the core of your business and is your most valuable asset. If you want to see any level of growth in your business, you must cherish your customer. However, to stay in touch with them and to maintain a long-lasting relationship requires a formidable means of communication. The best bet for any Kenyan business with considerations on budget is by using bulk sms. Bulk SMS remains a favorite for engaging and interacting with your customers and prospects. Kenyan consumers are more responsive to text messages and therefore, bulk SMS is a great way to get your business’ message across. This is whether you’re sending a text to alert customers or you're looking to promote your latest product offering. Whatever the case, bulk SMS ensures your message reaches your audience and doesn’t get lost in mailbox spam as is often the case with emails. Why use SMS marketing According to research by Statista, 52% of all online traffic was generated via mobile phones in 2018. This figure is on the increase globally and is worth noting for any business that wants to increase their customer base. Various reports including the Dynmark Report estimate that SMS open rates are as high as 98%. In fact, 90 percent of SMS are read within 3 seconds while more than 98% mobile phone users open and read their SMS within 4 minutes of its delivery! SMS marketing has also been known for its huge conversion rate. According to Pure 360, 32% of recipients respond to SMS offers, with texted coupons redeemed 10 times more often than traditional coupons. 54% of consumers receive at least one SMS message daily and 50% of consumers receiving branded SMS texts go on to make direct purchases. Dynmark also says in the aforementioned report that close to 29% of SMS marketing recipients do click on links in SMS messages that they receive. Moreover, 47% of those go on to make a purchase. That’s nearly 14% conversion! Besides these unbeatable statistics, Kenyans view SMS messaging as more personal than email. We don't usually give people our mobile numbers unless we want to hear from them. Therefore, if your customer has given you their mobile number then they’re quite likely to know that they'll hear from you. How to use bulk SMS in Kenya As implied in the name, bulk SMS means sending a large number of SMS messages to mobile phones. Doing this in a short time span and effectively requires a specialty service. Well-versed companies in Kenya that offer reliable bulk SMS solutions with 99.9% delivery include Better SMS . There are several Kenyan businesses and corporations that have used their services to employ bulk SMS, from banks, restaurants, hotels, e-commerce sites to traditional retailers and tech companies. Bulk SMS campaigns have been used for entertainment, information or for marketing purposes. Listing some Kenyan applications of messages that businesses have communicated to customers and prospects via bulk SMS: Similar to emails, bulk SMS campaigns can be created and distributed in a matter of minutes. This immediacy allows businesses to react quickly to situations. Marketers can promptly react to a competitor’s promotion or conduct damage control in a PR crisis. Retail stores can drive footfall on a slow day or come up with an innovative campaign for Black Friday on the spot. Implementation Better SMS uses an SMS gateway which is a powerful application that enables sending and receiving SMS messages through a database software. It has an easy to use interface and excellent internal architecture; the application can use a GSM mobile phone attached to a computer. Their goal is to provide the highest performance, availability and security to run the most demanding SMS applications. The robust system can process 100 SMS messages per second (sending and receiving) and allow multiple simultaneously connected applications. As a bulk SMS solutions provider, they have a 99.9% uptime guarantee, working 24 hours a day and 7 days a week. The system manages network link failures and SMS service provider failures with automatic reconnect capability, backup routing and fail-safe load balancing. Message loop protection is also included to avoid threats caused by auto responding mobile messaging services. Bulk SMS is a no-brainer for your business. Get in touch with Better SMS and onboard your campaign today. Email: info@bettersms.netPhone: +254 (0) 722 134 699Web: www.bettersms.net You can also visit them at International Life House, 6th Floor, Mama Ngina Street, Nairobi, Kenya