Deputy President William Ruto has urged leaders to stop political groupings in the ongoing debate over the implementation of the Building Bridges Initiative recommendations. He said leaders from across the political divide should engage in discussions over the implementation of the BBI in a sober manner devoid of threats, blackmail and division. Speaking during a thanksgiving ceremony for nominated MP David Sankok held at Enkare-Ngiro primary school grounds in Narok County on Friday, Ruto said consensus must be reached. “We must respect all institutions as we respect the rule of law. We must always submit ourselves to the rule of law and the Constitution while debating on the way the BBI reports can be implemented,” Ruto said. “We have sections to be implemented by Parliament in case of a new law, some sections by ministries and in the event some sections, which may need the people through a referendum, then we can have a consensus on the matter. We should, by all means, discourage us verses them contest in the debates about the BBI recommendations,” he added. Ruto said Kenyans should not be subjected to divisive politics at a time they want to forge ahead as people of one great country called Kenya. “Kenyans know where they came from and where they are going. We must discourage politics based on ethnic and political persuasions,” Ruto said. Present were Governor Samuel Tunai (Narok), MPs Ken Aramat (Narok East), Kimani Ngunjiri (Bahati), Soipan Tuya (Women Rep, Narok), Didmus Barasa (Kimilili), David Sankok (nominated), Faith Gitau (Women Rep, Nyandarua) and Christopher Langat (Bomet). The leaders said they support a parliamentary process in the implementation of the BBI recommendations. The leaders present said legislators were the peoples’ representatives and were well placed to implement the BBI recommendations on their behalf. They said leaders calling for a referendum were bent on dividing the country on tribal and political affiliations. Governor Tunai said they supported recommendations made by BBI team especially on the sections that aim to strengthen devolution. “We support the BBI recommendations especially on where touching on increase of revenue to counties to between 35 and 50 percent," Tunai said. The MPs said it’s time leaders show leadership and put aside their selfish interests if the BBI recommendations were to be addressed in Parliament without subjecting Kenyans to unnecessary referendum. The leaders cautioned that calls for a referendum would further divide Kenyans, noting that the country was not ready for politics of division. “As leaders we should stop advocating ills of violence and seclusion. BBI is about the peace and unity of Kenyans,” said Mr Barasa. Mr Ngunjiri wondered why some leaders were always opposed to initiatives aimed at ensuring peace and stability among Kenyans. “The Opposition should not always go against issues which they perceive not to favour them. But they should think about the future of the country. Kenya is bigger than some individuals,” said Mr Ngunjiri. Mr Langat said Parliament and Senate were waiting for the BBI report, saying the two Houses were capable of implementing the recommendations for the sake of the country. Ms Soipan said most of the recommendations by the BBI including introduction of Prime Minister and Leader of Official Opposition could be implemented by Parliament without necessarily subjecting Kenyans to a referendum. “The BBI report is about uniting Kenyans and not threats. The recommendations can be implemented in Parliament without subjecting the people to a referendum,” said Ms Gitau.