The government plans to implement three key major road projects as part of efforts to transform the economy of Murang’a county. Transport CS James Macharia said the 83km-long Kenol Marua dual carriageway that starts at Kenol in Maragua will have a positive influence on the economy of the county. He said the road will be built in two concurrent phases, with one phase covering 47 kilometres from Kenol to Sagana, while the second one covering 36 kilometres from Sagana to the Marua junction. "Construction will start in two places to ensure it is completed in the shortest time possible," Macharia said. He spoke on Sunday at Kenol ACK. President Uhuru Kenyatta is expected to launch the project soon, according to the CS. Also targeted is the famous Mau Mau road that will stretch from Limuru in Kiambu county to Nyeri via Murang'a. The road was used by Mau Mau fighters as they went to the forest to fight colonialists during the struggle for Independence. Macharia said the government has chosen to commemorate the freedom fighters by upgrading the road. It had been neglected since Independence. Construction will be done concurrently in three phases, one in each of the counties. "If you walked a straight line from Limuru to Nyeri, it would be 150 kilometres, but this road will be 462 kilometres because we will be taking all the arteries joining it to make sure nobody is left out,” Macharia said. Another project will be the Murang’a-Njabini road that will connect the county to the Rift Valley. Its construction will start at Gatura in Gatanga and Kinyona in Kigumo. The two will then join up in the Aberdare forest in Kiambiri area and proceed to Naivasha. The road is expected to improve trade between Murang'a, Nyandarua and Nakuru counties. The three counties are highly agricultural and the road will enable smooth transportation of farm produce. “These are critical projects which the President himself will be coming to launch in person and will form part of the Jubilee government’s legacy,” Macharia said. The government has conducted public participation for the expansion of Kenol-Murang’a road, he added. Macharia said the road will be expanded to ensure residents who championed its upgrade to a dual carriageway are not left out. In July, Macharia said the Kenol-Sagana highway has five times the number of vehicles that use the Kenol-Murang’a road. He said the development being undertaken by the government has to be sustained by good leadership. “We, therefore, need to make sure we hand over the mantle of the country to people who will ensure the legacy continues,” he said. (Edited by F'Orieny)