A retired OCS and uncle to Marriane Kitany yesterday told court he tried in vain to save her marriage to former husband Senator Mithika Linturi. John Kibii, 87, who was testifying in the divorce case told the court he went to their Runda home last year to try and reconcile the two. “Last year, I went to Marriane’s Runda home after her mother informed me that Linturi who was her husband had deserted his home,” he said. Kibii said at Runda he met the Senator Linturi’s parents but the legislator was out. “We spent the night at the home and the following day Linturi and some people came to the house,” the court heard. He said he then decided to chair a meeting of reconciliation thinking it was a normal family dispute only to find it involved property. The meeting took until about 3pm and although there was no solution reached, they ate a meal together, he said. Kibii claims that it was at that meeting that he learnt of disputed property including companies. According to Kitany’s uncle, in most of the discussion Linturi didn't talk much. He simply said on the question of debts he was going to pay the next week. The court heard Kitany claimed she spent her money putting up the house in Runda, Meru and Linturi’s parents’ house. It was also at the same meeting that Kitany informed them that the senator had taken her title deeds and used them as collateral for bank loans. However, Kibii said both Linturi and Kitany declined to have minutes taken at that meeting when he suggested so. After the meeting, Linturi and his friends left but his parents and Kibii remained and they spent another night at the house. Kibii left the following morning and he later learnt through the media that the matter had taken a new turn and was in court. Kibii told the court that he does not have anything personal against Linturi and only knows him as Kitany’s husband. He narrated to court the first time he met the senator around February 2015. He was in Marriane's house in Kileleshwa when Linturi found him there. “We took breakfast together and later he left me as he was going to Parliament for a meeting,” Kibii added. He told the court that Kitany introduced Linturi to him. The next time was during their traditional wedding in Nandi. “I also witnessed the senator hand over a car to Kitany's mother before everybody who was present,” he said. The case resumes on November 26.