Coffee farmers in Kirinyaga county may not benefit from Sh3 billion set aside this financial year to revive the subsector, Deputy Governor Peter Ndambiri has warned. The farmers, Ndambiri said, chased away subsector Implementation committee chairman Prof Joseph Kieyah who had visited last month to find out how to disburse money to farmers. The meeting called by the committee at Kutus town ended in chaos after angry farmers refused to meet the chairman. The chairman's opening remarks were cut short after farmers heckled and shouted at him accusing him of misrepresenting their views and failing to appreciate their recommendations. Speaking on Monday, Ndambiri called the move unfortunate, saying the county risks losing out "if it continues with its militant stand". The deputy governor accused top cooperative society managers of inciting farmers against the committee. He added that the meeting was aimed at coming up with ways to disburse the money and ensure only coffee farmers benefit from the kitty "It's in bad taste for farmers and some cooperative societies officials to fight the committee without first hearing what they have to offer." Ndambiri said, however, the county government is doing its best to bring back the committee to meet with farmers. He said other counties neighbouring Kirinyaga have agreed on the method of releasing the money to farmers. The Deputy Governor also revealed that the county will pay pending bills to contractors but swiftly added the county has no budget for payment. Unless the national government intervenes and bails out the county, Ndambiri said, it would be very hard to implement its directive to pay all contractors by December 1. "For now we don't have money to pay contractors but we are in consultation with the Treasury to bail us out and pay all pending bills for us." The DG spoke after attending a final draw of Fortune Sacco's save-and-win promotion in which 12,000 people participated. The winner got a sedan while the runners-up went home with motorcycles. Edited by R.Wamochie