Food handlers in the capital city will now have to apply for their certificates 0nline. City Hall plans to introduce a digital platform as part of its efforts to hasten the processing of the documents. The county government seeks to reduce turnaround time by 50 per cent. This will cover payments, testing and certification. Moving forward, laboratory results will also be submitted online for approval and subsequent issuance of certificates. “Currently, we have the county food handlers testing laboratories undergoing interlinking with other relevant departments and this will ensure smooth and speedy issuance of services,” Health chief officer Mohamed Sahal said yesterday. It was further revealed that the National Bank, in partnership with the county, will oversee the digitisation. Food handlers will be required to make payments through M-Pesa or other online payment platforms. The chief officer said training is underway for county staff at facilities such as Lady Northey Laboratory and STC Casino. “The staff are being trained in how to use the system. In due time, it will be rolled out to other testing centres across the county. Workload will be reduced by 50 per cent,” he said. The county government has been in the limelight for failing to test public food handlers in the past one year, despite collecting the requisite fees. This was revealed in August by the Kenya Association of Manufacturers (KAM), which raised concerns over the safety of food sold to residents or travellers. Public health officers were accused of failure to carry out tests. KAM regional coordinator for Nairobi Robert Juma lashed out at the county for lacking the capacity to test, track and keep proper records to prove that one has been tested. Juma said the county’s four licensed public laboratories were overstretched and not capable of carrying out the tests. He urged the county’s public health department to digitise its systems for enhanced and effective proper tracking of food handlers, testing and issuance of certificates of good health. Yesterday, Sahal said they have cleared a backlog of 20,000 cases, by testing and issuing food handling certificates. He said they are now dealing with new cases. “As a county, we have acted on the backlogs and we have dispensed with at least 20,000 cases. Currently, we have in store testing reagents capable of testing 20,000 clients,” he said. The county had launched a crackdown on food handlers operating without certificates and at least 10 food vendors were arrested in Embakasi and Kamkunji for selling uninspected food to residents. Prior to the crackdown, all vendors and eateries had been given two weeks to reapply for inspection. However, the operation fizzled out, suffering the same fate that has befallen most city crackdowns in the past. (Edited by F'Orieny)