Maryam Jaffer travels 351km from Kisumu to Nairobi every month to seek cancer treatment. She's been doing it for 16 years. The 40-year-old mother of three, who sells clothes to make ends meet, was diagnosed with leukaemia, a blood cancer,16 years ago. She lives in Pembe Tatu Estate in Kisumu with her family. Her husband borrows a car from their friends to take his wife for therapy. It all started after she gave birth to her last-born son. She developed a swollen right breast and as a result, could not breastfeed her baby. "I did a home remedy by massaging with hot water. I didn't know what was happening," Jaffer narrates. One day in 2004, while at Russia Referral Hospital in Kisumu, her doctor advised her to get checked at a Cancer Awareness Project Programme. "The first doctor said I had mumps, I was shocked and did not know what it was. They suspected I had cancer but needed to do more X-rays to determine what it really was so I could receive treatment immediately." She was diagnosed with leukaemia. She immediately started the treatment at no fee after she was enrolled in a programme under the Max Foundation through Norvatis–an international drug company that donates drugs for cancer patients. The programme provides drugs for chronic myeloid leukemia and gastrointestinal stromal tumour. A doctor identified, who declined not to be named, said the programme has made it easy for cancer and tumour patients to access the drugs at no cost. "The drugs are provided through Nairobi Hospital which serves just as a venue but the staff is kind enough to help out. Slightly more than 1,000 people are enrolled," she told the Star. "The programme is based in Nairobi but still, patients like Jaffer travel all the way to get treatment. But there are plans to expand the treatment to other counties." In this programme, they would be taken to various cancer seminars for free treatment and consultation. Jaffer was also taken to India for seven months for further treatment for free. "X-rays and CTs scans are all that I have had to pay for as well as transportation cost every month. We rely on family friends to help us with their cars at Sh3,000 for fuel to Nairobi and a similar amount for the way back," Jaffer says. She receives chemotherapy at Kenyatta National Hospital unless there are no drugs in which case she is referred to Nairobi Hospital. Jaffer travels with her young grandson. "As a mother, travelling with my grandchild has never been a challenge." She has had to undergo undesirable side effects since she started chemo. For instance, she became partially blind in her right eye and her body becomes numb such that she cannot hold a glass of water. However, she overcomes these challenges by going for physiotherapy at Russia Referral Hospital to allow the flow of blood. Cancer is the third leading cause of death and second among non- communicable diseases in Kenya accounting for 7 per cent of overall mortality rate. The annual incidences are estimated to be 37,000 new cases with an annual mortality rate of 28,000 according to a report in 2013. Few facilities in Kenya offer cancer treatment, the main one isKNH in the public sector. Edited by R.Wamochie