One of life’s greatest gifts is uniqueness. You are different. You are peculiar. It is scientifically proven that there is no one like you on the planet. You are rare. You are one in over seven billion people – and that’s a game-changer. It means that somehow, you have a monopoly advantage. Sadly, few people tap into their uniqueness to succeed in business and its no surprise those who do succeed – sometimes, massively. Uniqueness is an important business tool that should be explored by entrepreneurs. Your difference is a huge advantage. This is one reason why trying to be like your competitors is largely unhealthy. Yes, know what your competitors are doing, but working hard to become your competitor is a mistake. Eventually, you lose focus as a business. You are a major factor in your business. Your uniqueness ought to play a key role. How far you explore your uniqueness determines how far your business goes; the degree to which you cultivate your uniqueness is the degree to which you succeed. You are authentic when your business is aligned with your uniqueness; in your business practices, you are aligned with purpose. To you, business is beyond chasing money. It’s about excellently serving people with your gift. You are in business to truly help people from the place of authenticity. When you truly connect with your uniqueness, you develop a heart of service. You are poised to excellently serve people with your gift and this gives you an edge in the marketplace. Generally, people do not connect their uniqueness to the quality of customer service. But the connection is strong. Those who are authentic find it easier to offer great customer service. And here is why. Authenticity means that you appreciate and highly value who you are – and you are invested in your growth. Your high sense of personal value makes you value others. Therefore, you invest in their growth and progress. Authenticity empowers you to give to others what you give yourself. In my perspective, authenticity in business is one of the finest principles that deserve more emphasis. Normally, people are caught up in the hustle of commerce and forget that their uniqueness is a huge advantage. To succeed in the twenty-first century, I believe that entrepreneurs will have to build businesses that align with their core or uniqueness. No one can compete with you at being you. Now, if that is not a strong competitive advantage, I don’t know what is. Email: smpamugo@gmail.com