Sports Cabinet Secretary Mohamed has said the government is looking beyond the athletes as they seek to tame the doping menace in the country. Amina said they intend to adopt a holistic approach in dealing with doping and this will involve casting the net beyond athletes and targeting all other actors in the sports industry. “The era of holding only athletes responsible for doping is drawing to an end. Trainers, managers and agents must also take their responsibilities seriously,"  she said "Athletes do not live and train in isolation. They are part of the entourage and must be treated as such. Accomplices must also be held accountable,” Amina noted. To this end, the CS said the ministry will propose new legislation that will enable the prosecution of doping accomplices in addition to the athletes. If passed into law, coaches, managers, sports agents and other connected persons will be barred from practising in Kenya and potentially jailed for taking part in any form of doping. “Our view of doping as a country resonates with the position of the IOC that any successful anti-doping regime must clean up the entire sports ecosystem to guarantee fair play and clean sport,” observed Mohammed. To further strengthen anti-doping war, Amina said NADOs and Public Authorities should put in place structures and mechanisms to protect whistleblowers who come forward to provide information on doping. “It is important for key stakeholders to forge partnerships for effective implementation of whistleblower protection mechanisms,” she quipped. The Cabinet Secretary said this while speaking during the official opening of the  World Doping Conference in Katowice, Poland. The conference brings together representatives from the sports movement, public authorities and anti-doping organizations, athletes and other anti-doping experts to review the evolution of the clean sport and engage in high-level discussions on the world anti-doping program. Key on the agenda of the Conference is a debate on the 2021 World Anti-Doping Code (Code) and its related International Standards. The Code and the Standards have undergone a two-year review process and will be presented for discussion by stakeholders during the conference. The Code will subsequently be presented for approval by WADA’s Foundation Board while the Standards will be presented for endorsement by WADA’s Executive Committee. During the conference, the Foundation Board will also elect a new President and Vice-President to replace Briton Sir Craig Reedie & Linda Helleland of Norway. The opening session was graced by Andrzej Duda, President of the Republic of Poland. Key speakers during the opening session included WADA’s President Sir Craig Reedie, IOC President Thomas Bach and Witold Banka, Poland’s Minister of Sport and Tourism.