President Uhuru Kenyatta has arrived for Mt Kenya region leaders meeting whose agenda remains a guarded secret. Mobile phones, wristwatches, rings, earrings, bangles and any other electronic gadgets were not allowed inside. The media was also not allowed inside. The President is expected to address residents shortly after the meeting. The leaders attending the meeting are drawn from Gema communities both from the region and those from the diaspora such as Lamu, Nakuru, Nairobi and Kajiado among others. The leaders started streaming in at around 6 am. The President arrived at the lodge aboard a Kenya Airforce chopper and landed at the Sagana state lodge landing base at exactly 12.11 pm. He was received by Nyeri governor Mutahi Kahiga, MPs Rigathi Gachagua (Mathira) and Kanini Kega (Kieni). Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu was also present and was cheered on arrival. Governor Kahiga said he was not aware of the meeting's agenda but said they expect the president to dwell on development issues and also to address coffee, tea and milk issues. A source said the leaders who met the president were handpicked while the rest remained inside state lodge premises. Several leaders have been lined up to address the meeting. According to the official programme, former Nyeri Senator Mutahi Kagwe will be the master of the ceremony. Immediate past Equity Bank Group chair Peter Munga will be the other notable speaker, representing the business community from the region. Polycarp Igathe, who is the Executive Vice President in charge of Vivo Energy's sales across the oil marketing company's operations in Africa will represent the professionals at the meeting. Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu will talk on behalf of Mt Kenya MPs. Embu Senator Njeru Ndwiga will represent the senators from the region and address the high profile meeting. Nyeri Governor Mutahi Kahiga and his counterpart Anne Waiguru from Kirinyaga will speak on behalf of governors. The event will also be addressed by CSs Joe Mucheru (ICT), James Macharia (Transport), Sicily Kariuki (Health), Margaret Kobia (Public Service) and PSs Karanja Kibicho (Interior) and Kirimi Kaberia (Sports). Security officials were conducting thorough screening before allowing the leaders inside. The leaders were invited using an SMS before a list was compiled with names of the invited. "From the grassroots, they have invited Nyumba Kumi officials and other opinion leaders from the village level," he said.