Good morning, Deputy President William Ruto has sent the clearest signal yet that he might oppose the Building Bridges report, exposing his dilemma over an initiative spearheaded by his boss. The DP's opposition to the report is likely to put him on a collision course with President Uhuru Kenyatta, the architect of the initiative, setting the stage for a nasty political divorce. Here are the other stories making headlines in the Star this morning. Senators have vowed to explore ‘everything possible’ including legislative intervention to safeguard the courts after the National Treasury's attempt to slash the Judiciary’s budget. Senate's Justice and Legal Affairs Committee faulted the Treasury for attempting to frustrate, incapacitate and undermine the independence of the Judiciary. DCI boss George Kinoti on Monday was on the spot for the delayed investigation into a sex tape linked to Wajir Woman Representative Fatuma Gedi. She dismissed as fake the tape that went viral in December last year. Since Gedi made a formal complaint with the DCI in February this year, the file has been gathering dust. Taxpayers will part with Sh420 million annually as pension for lawmakers who served between 1984 and 2001 if MPs approve a bill by Minority Leader John Mbadi at the plenary. Should the bill become law, each of the 375 former members will get Sh100,000 a month as pension. Members of the Finance committee have already voted to support the bill. Scenario one: Defiled by a relative at the age of eight, discovering she was HIV positive at the prime of her life at 18, engaging in prostitution, getting pregnant and later becoming a club dancer. Scenario two: Dropping out of school at Form Two after getting pregnant, chased away from home and ending up in an abusive marriage and a husband doing drugs, engaging in prostitution, being forced at gunpoint to wash a corpse by a ‘client’, and later pushed off a moving vehicle. Kenya Airways is citing a fall-out in the Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA) talks and its adoption of contract hiring as the reason for the latest clash with its pilots. The management has said because of this,  the Kenya Airline Pilots Association (KALPA), is out to sabotage the carriers’ operations.