After successfully guidingStrathmore University Gladiators to safety Kenya Hockey union Premier League, captain Festus Onyango has now shifted his focus on winning the top-scorers gong for a second time. The prolific forward is level on 11 goals with Greensharks' talisman Chris Wokila while Johnstone Mulindi of Sailors chases the pair with nine. The trio of  George Mutira, Amos Barkibir (Butali) and Robinson Omutekete have eight goals each as the league comes to an end this weekend. Onyango, a remnant of the 2016 title-winning team alongside Paul Omariba, Edgar Juma, Mathew Kipchirchir and Brown Wekesa has been an integral member of the team since 2015 when he first joined the institution as a law student. His goals helped Gladiators win their third national league title. In 2017, he was crowned top scorer with 20 goals one more than runners up George Mutira 19 as Police bagged the league title. The former Maseno school player scored the same number of goals last season to emerge second behind red hot Mutira with 23. The 23-year old was instrumental for the national team scoring four goals in the Olympic qualifiers August in Egypt before suffering a broken finger injury that kept him out of club assignments for two months.  A rejuvenated talisman scored four over the weekend and is banking on current form to pip out the chasing pack. The two-time Most Valuable Player award winner for Strathmore university is targeting a hat trick against Parklands. He said playing on Saturday gives him hope of accomplishing his mission against a relegated side. He said: "I want to finish the season on a high. Though I haven't achieved my target of at least a goal each game, I have what it takes to win the award. I really wanted to do it at the qualifiers but I came third behind South African 10 and Egyptian 6 but I feel it is time to make amends," Onyango remarked before adding. "The poor season is behind us. I have missed a couple of games and it took a while to get back to fully playing. Scoring a brace against Sikh Union and USIU in the last two matches motivates me. I intend to put three past Parklands and wait what happens on Sunday when my rivals take to the field."  