Kenyan engineers are expected to convene a meeting to discuss the JKIA-Westlands expressway. The engineers under the umbrella of The Institution of Engineers of Kenya drawn from across the country will be gathering at the Kenyatta International Convention Centre on Friday to demystify the Sh60 billion project. Participants are also expected to discuss business opportunities the project will have for suppliers as well as opportunities for professionals, including engineers. Insiders say the initial plan to hive off part of Uhuru Park, which had been a major concern, will form part of the discussion. The government later shelved the plan to cut off part of the park. Discussions on the hiving off plan will take place during a dinner event organised by the Institute of Engineers of Kenya, IEK. The Nairobi expressway was launched by President Uhuru Kenyatta in October 2019. The 18.6 kilometre Nairobi expressway stretches from Jomo Kenyatta International Airport all through to James Gichuru road, along Waiyaki Way in Westlands. Its construction will be done by China Road and Bridge Corporation, and overseen by the Kenya National Highways Authority (Kenha) through a public-private partnership model. While launching the project last month, Uhuru said the project is intended to ease traffic along Mombasa Road to save commuters time. Uhuru said  the project will be implemented under a public-private partnership as a toll road. According to its scope of works, the expressway consists of a four-lane ground level highway from Mlolongo to the Eastern Bypass interchange (10km), a six-lane ground level highway from the Eastern Bypass interchange to the Southern Bypass interchange (5km) and  a four-lane elevated highway from the Southern Bypass near Capital Centre through the City Centre along Uhuru Highway up to James Gichuru  Junction (11.2 km). The expressway will have 10 exit and entry roads and 10 toll plazas. Kenha director general Peter Mundinia on Thursday said  despite the challenges already highlighted, the  expressway will be an important economic resource for the country as it targets benefit all and sundry. “The expressway is meant for everybody, because the moment you reduce the congestion by lifting out some of the vehicles, then you allow the remaining ones to move efficiently,” he said. According to Mundinia, upon completion the multibillion-shilling project will drastically reduce the cost of public transport to Nairobi residents. “We expect that after this is done, even the fares for the rest of the public transport will come down because what matters most is how many trips matatus can make,” he said. He added, “If the road is efficient, the matatus will make more trips.” The DG said the meeting thus will create the best platform for engagement and suggestions about the expressway, and the engineering aspect of the project. “We have been invited to explain how this project is going to impact the traffic in Nairobi and the environment – so it is an event for engineers,” Mundinia said. On his part, Nathaniel Matalanga, honorary secretary of IEK said the meeting  will provide an opportunity for engineers to deliberate on the most concerning issues around the expressway, and its potential benefits. “The Nairobi expressway as it has been shown to us is seen to be starting from Mlolongo to Kikuyu, many people have not appreciated what type of users are going to be this going to start their journey in Mlolongo and end up in Kikuyu,” he said. Government spokesperson  Cyrus Oguna earlier on dismissed claims that the Expressway will occupy part of the iconic recreation facility that is Uhuru Park. Oguna project will not occupy more space of Uhuru Park apart from the 23 metres that had already been earmarked by the Kenya Highways Authority for Uhuru Highway.