The government has announced a crackdown on millers still selling the five brands of maize flour that were found to be unfit for consumption. Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri put on notice millers of the five products that failed aflatoxin tests insisting the affected flour must be recalled. He said the ministry is aware that some millers of the listed brands have resorted to lowering prices to clear their stocks. Appearing before the National Assembly Agriculture committee, Kiunjuri said the government will take stern action against any of the millers who are yet to comply with the directive of Kenya Bureau of Standards to recall the contaminated brands. He said the ministry is currently doing random checks to ensure no brand listed by Kebs is sold to Kenyans. The CS also called for surveillance of the country’s borders to ensure that no contaminated maize is imported. At the same time, the CS confirmed that his docket, jointly with Health ministry and Kebs, is investigating how the contaminated maize ended up on the shelves and promised to make their findings public. “We must realise that the government only supplies a fraction of the maize bought by the millers. Some millers buy maize directly from farmers and that is why everyone must play their part in ensuring any maize bought is of the right moisture content,” Kiunjuri said. He was responding to questions by committee chairman Adan Haji on the steps the ministry is taking to contain the cases of aflatoxin in flour which he noted has caused panic. Last week, Kebs suspended five maize flour brands after they were found to contain high levels of aflatoxin. The five include Dola by Kitui Four Mills, Kifaru (Alpha Grain Limited), Starehe (Pan African Grain Millers), 210 by Kenblest Limited and Jembe by Kensal Rise Limited. Kebs also suspended the permits of the five companies. They were directed to recall their products from Kenyan shelves. Supermarkets and other retail outlets were also instructed to withdraw the listed products. Edited by R.Wamochie