Youth, a time when everything you do does not affect you much. You are unrepentant and you live for the moment. However, youth, as with all other phases of life, comes and goes. That is when the things we did in our heyday start to haunt us. Some of the most common things some have lived to regret include: Tattooing Women tend to choose floral designs on the hip, while men go for tribal designs on the biceps. At this age you have a beautiful, well-toned body and well-hydrated skin. Some women prefer to get a tatoo on the stomach forgetting that that part of the body does not look the same after pregnancy. Smoking It looks cool when you’re young. Some of the more rebellious types choose to smoke “to express themselves”. It also feels naughty when we do it behind our parents’ backs. Smoking, however, takes a toll on the body as the years go by. It is very addictive so you are probably stuck with the habit for life. As the tar blackens your lungs with the years, you will find yourself coughing more often; you will lose your energy and your skin will lose its shine; your sense of smell and taste will also change. Dropping out of school Most of us have watched our parents come home from work stressed and worn out and wondered if this is what’s awaiting us. Some of us choose to study and pursue a career, others choose to drop out of school. Don’t, lest it be the last thing you do in life. Becoming obsessed with love They say you never forget your first love. But some of us hang on to bad relationships, wasting our youth and becoming damaged emotionally in the process. Life is short and we all deserve to be happy. Don’t hang on to someone who does not want you in their life. On the reverse, don’t force someone to be with you who does not love you back. Sending/posting nudes This has become rampant, what with smartphones and the Internet. But sending nudes to your friends or lover will not only cost you your reputation in future but it might also lead to your being disqualified from a job.