A freedom fighter's family has protested against eviction threats by the Nairobi county government. The late Mwanaisha Bilali’s family accuses City Hall of threatening to demolish their house in KICC village in Kariobangi South, Embakasi East subcounty. The fallen hero, Mwanaisha Bilali, was popularly known as ‘Mama Uhuru’. The family says officials from Governor Mike Sonko’s administration have been visiting their residence and threatening to demolish it. Family spokesperson Mariam Bilali said they were living in fear since their two-storey building is the only possession in the freedom fighter’s name. Mariam said her grandmother died while pursuing justice on the land she was given by President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2002 when he served as the Minister for Local Government in retired President Mwai Kibaki’s administration. “The hero died while she was 108 years old. My own mother Saada Bilali succumbed to blood pressure while pursuing title deeds for the same plots in 2019. I won’t allow myself to die pursuing the same for the entire extended family,” Mariam said She said the family had lived on the 7.5 hectares since 2005 when they constructed the structure. They also host more than 300 tenants but some have moved out due to the threats. “President Uhuru Kenyatta gave our grandmother, the late Mwaisha Bilali, this land since she needed a place to call home. We have all our investment here even though she died pursuing its title deed,” Mariam said. The family said the situation worsened after the Nairobi City covernment constructed a new market adjacent to the property. They protested that the project contractor erected a perimeter wall around the market thereby locking them within. “The threats are now rife. Our children are traumatized for fear that those issuing them would make good their threats. We will not accept to be evicted. Where is justice?” Mariam. The family also claims ownership of plots numbers 126, C35 and C26 all in Kariobangi. Documents seen by the Star show that Bilali had been remitting rates for the plots to Nairobi City Council since 2002. The family says there are cartels working to evict them so as to grab their parcels. They are calling on President Kenyatta to come to their rescue so that they retain the property. "Our grandmother lived here until she died. Her remains were buried at a city cemetery. Where do they expect us to go if evicted?" Mariam posed.