Shuttle-hailing tech platform SWVL has confirmed it will be fully operational by the end of this month, ending speculation over the future of the company. The firm is currently engaging the National Transport and Safety Authority (NTSA) for clearance to operate on the Kenyan roads. “Following the continuing discussions with the National Transport and Safety Authority (NTSA), the firm is nearing full compliance and will be entirely covered under the requisite laws by the end of the month,” management said in a statement on Thursday. SWVL Kenya General Manager, Shivachi Muleji said:“In our goal to provide commuters with a safe, convenient and efficient mass transport option, we have had our challenges. We’re still in engagement with NTSA and we remain committed to finding a way forward.” “We believe our solution is transformational and we are happy that the NTSA is willing to engage us and find a way forward” he added,” Muleji added. SWVL had earlier this week informed their customers that until they are fully compliant, some rides may be affected and even suffer cancellations. The most affected areas are Kasarani, Wangige, Jogoo Road, Westlands and Kiambu. They have however begun to resume full operations on some routes with Utawala, Mlolongo and all Eastlands routes having returned to normalcy. The company has been growing steadily with huge support from commuters. The firm has announced new routes on Thika-Westlands; Ngong-Westlands and Kahawa-Kilimani. "We have always highlighted our commitment to observing the law and building a compliant service that will offer commuters a safe, convenient and comfortable transport service. We will continue this drive and do everything required of the business to achieve our goal,” said Mostafa Kandil, SWVL Co-founder and CEO. SWVL is a Cairo-based transportation start-up allowing riders to hail shuttles operating on fixed routes and timings from their mobile phones. They currently operate in Egypt (Cairo and Alexandria), Kenya (Nairobi) and Pakistan (Lahore and Karachi).