A Bungoma AP officer was arraigned on Monday in connection with the rape of his girlfriend, whose arm was also severed, wrapped in her bra and tossed onto a rooftop. Constable Eric Mutama, attached to the Tuuti Administration Police camp in Kanduyi constituency, did not take a plea. The prosecution requested seven days to investigate, saying the victim was still hospitalised in Eldoret and had not recorded a statement. Investigating officer Nicholas Oluoch asked the court to allow them to carry out DNA testing before the case proceeds. Resident magistrate Wamboi Githongori directed that Muthama be remanded for seven days, despite Muthama's plea for less time. Muthama, who was arrested by detectives from the Bungoma Directorate of Criminal Investigations, is accused of causing grievous harm to the student and raping her. Bungoma police commander Mutungi Musyoki said that the student was headed home with friends when they were ambushed, she was raped by three men and her left arm was cut off. Her own account to a source was hazy and she spoke of one rapist. The Bachelor of Science student rushed to Bungoma West Hospital by neighbours. On Saturday she was moved to St Luke's Hospital in Eldoret. Commander Musyoki said that the policeman and his girlfriend, along with other friends, had gone out to a club and the DJ had flirted with the girlfriend. Muthama had wanted to escort her home as it was late and raining but she wanted to stay on with her girlfriends and a couple of young men, the Star was told. The policeman left on his own. The assault occurred about 200 meters from the woman's rented house in Kibabii. All her friends escaped but she stumbled and fell. A source from Kibabi told the Star that the student had said that she had heard the voice of a man who raped her, but it wasn't her policeman boyfriend. She said he carried a whip, stripped her, tied her to a tree and kept telling her not to look at him, the source said. Neighbour Zaituni Shaban found the severed arm at 6am. It was wrapped in a bra and had been tossed on the roof of a house. She told her husband who reported to police. They retrieved the arm. “At 5am, we heard a woman screaming for help, but my husband and I feared to go out. At 6am, I went and saw something that resembled a human being’s arm wrapped in a bra on a neighbour's roof.  We later learnt the limb was that of a neighbour, a third-year student at Kibabii University,” she said. The source said the young woman proceeded to her hostel with other friends before they were ambushed in heavy rain. The others fled. The policeman joined the National Police Service in 2017 and had been dating the student for some time. (Edited by V. Graham)