Leaders to spearhead the Building Bridges Initiative have been selected following a meeting of Gema community leaders and President Uhuru Kenyatta. The list of 11 is led by nominated MP Maina Kamanda who will be the chairperson of the team. He will be deputised by Gathoni wa Muchomba (Kiambu woman representative). Other leaders in the committee include; Uhuru is meeting face-to-face with rebel leaders allied to his deputy William Ruto in the Mt Kenya only meeting as he fights to rally the region behind the handshake. The leaders started streaming in at around 6 am. The President arrived at the lodge aboard a Kenya Airforce chopper and landed at the Sagana state lodge landing base at exactly 12.11 pm. He was received by Nyeri governor Mutahi Kahiga, MPs Rigathi Gachagua (Mathira) and Kanini Kega (Kieni). Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu was also present and was cheered on arrival. Uhuru’s Jubilee Party is in turmoil and the President has been unable to make public the Building Bridges Initiative report three weeks after it was completed. Worse, Ruto and his allies are threatening to shoot it down unless ODM leader Raila Odinga “renounces and apologises” over the violence that marred the Kibra parliamentary by-election. A section of Mt Kenya leaders have also vowed to reject a parliamentary system of government should it be proposed by the BBI task force, putting the President in a tight spot. Several leaders have been lined up to address the meeting. According to the official programme, former Nyeri Senator Mutahi Kagwe will be the master of the ceremony. Immediate past Equity Bank Group chair Peter Munga will be the other notable speaker, representing the business community from the region. Polycarp Igathe, who is the Executive Vice President in charge of Vivo Energy's sales across the oil marketing company's operations in Africa will represent the professionals at the meeting. Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu will talk on behalf of Mt Kenya MPs. Embu Senator Njeru Ndwiga will represent the senators from the region and address the high profile meeting. Nyeri Governor Mutahi Kahiga and his counterpart Anne Waiguru from Kirinyaga will speak on behalf of governors. The event will also be addressed by CSs Joe Mucheru (ICT), James Macharia (Transport), Sicily Kariuki (Health), Margaret Kobia (Public Service) and PSs Karanja Kibicho (Interior) and Kirimi Kaberia (Sports).