Increasing cases of corruption and youth unemployment remain a major worry for the majority of Kenyans. In the latest Corruption Survey released by EACCC on Tuesday,  49.4 percent of Kenyans said corruption remains a major challenge for them. This is despite President Uhuru Kenyatta's renewed efforts to fight the vice. The survey was conducted between November 16 and December 19, 2018. Interviews were conducted in 5, 942 households sampled from the 47 counties. The report indicated that massive unemployment remains a key concern with 36.8 percent of the sample size saying it is a major challenge. Poverty and famine comes third, with 27.2 per cent followed by high cost of living at 16 per cent. While 13.40 per cent of Kenyans say dad infrastructure  is a challenge, 11 per cent said unfavorable economic conditions is their main challenge compared to 10.20 per cent who raised concerns over insecurity. In its recommendations, the graft agency said there is need for investigation of corrupt offenders as a key measure to reduce prevalence of corruption. "The national and county governments must put in place preventive measures in MDAs most prone to corruption, intensify investigation, prosecution, and asset recovery," read part of the report. According to the report,  27.7 per cent of Kenyans think serious investigations would play a key role in prevention of the vice. While 13.2 per cent said public education and awareness would be key, 11.7 per cent feel serious prosecution would be the best way to end the vice. Another 7.7 per cent of Kenyans feel creating more employment will play a key role in taming corruption compared to 7.2 per cent who said stringent anti-corruption laws would play a major role. While 4.9 per cent said change of attitude was best option towards graft fight, some 3.6 per cent said decentralising EACC was the best option. "Accounting officers must enforce anti-corruption and leadership and integrity interventions and corruption prevention recommendations, develop a national strategy to inculcate anti-corruption, ethics and values for behaviour and attitude change of the populace," the report read. EACC further recommended a serious review and analysis of  governmental structures, systems and processes at national and county levels on oversight and accountability systems. The report further recommended a review and strengthening of  anti-corruption and ethics laws, development  and implementation of  a national strategy of citizen participation and engagement in decision making and strengthening of  the Judiciary to remove systemic weaknesses, abuse and corruption. From the survey, 35 percent of Kenyans would pay a bribe to get quick services.