The fight against waterborne infections got impetus in Homa Bay after the state launched water projects in three constituencies. The national government constructed water projects at Sh202 million in Suba North and South and Rangwe constituencies. The projects in Suba North include Oseno Dam Project that is already complete in Mbita. Others are Min Arot Borehole Water Project, Tweta Water Pan and Ondiegi Water Pan. In Suba North, the projects cost the government more than Sh120 million. The projects are expected to serve more than 80,000 residents. In Suba South, the government launched the Sindo Water Supply Project while it launched Got Kabok Primary School Water Supply Project in Rangwe constituency. Sindo project cost Sh70.8 million and has a capacity of producing 1,800 cubic metres of clean water per day. It serves 12,000 people living in Sindo Town and its environs including health facilities, market centres and learning institutions. Got Kabok project in Kochia ward cost Sh10 million and will serve the school and the surrounding community. The projects are undertaken by the Ministry of Water through the Lake Victoria South Water Works Development Agency. Speaking when he commissioned the projects, Water PS Joseph Irungu said the national government is committed to ensuring water problems such as the spread of diseases in Homa Bay is solved. He said the projects will improve the livelihood of residents and support operations at local institutions. Irungu said the government has allocated Sh3.2 billion to end water shortage in Homa Bay. “We want to eradicate water problems by enabling everyone to have access to clean and safe water. Apart from the projects being commissioned, there are others going on,” Irungu said. The state is also undertaking Kendu Bay Water Project in Karachuonyo constituency and Oyugis Water Project and several boreholes in Kasipul constituency. The PS has accompanied by Homa Bay Woman Representative Gladys Wanga and Rangwe MP Lillian Gogo. He said the projects are also aimed at empowering residents to undertake agricultural activities without relying on rainfall alone. Irungu cited Oseno in which a 10-metre trough has been constructed to allow livestock to drink water. “The water can also be used by residents for agriculture to transform their lives. We expect positive changes in livelihoods." The Principal Secretary told contractors undertaking the projects to complete them on time. Gogo said some residents in her constituency used to walk more than 10 kilometres to look for clean water. She said the project at Got Kabok will ease this burden on residents. “Women will no longer wake up very early in the morning to go to Lake Victoria as they did before,” Gogo said. The legislator said the project had resulted from the peace prevailing in the country due to last year's March 9 handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga. Wanga said water shortage was a setback to economic and social activities development. She said most people were spending time looking for water instead of engaging in other activities. “Most families would involve everyone including schoolchildren in search of water. This is dangerous to the academic development of learners because most of them used to spend the time they are supposed to read looking for the commodity,” she said. Wanga appealed to the Ministry of Water to extend offering its services to all areas of the county. Hundreds of residents led by Margaret Akinyi expressed optimism that the projects would bring relief from perennial water shortage that had afflicted them. Thousands of residents from the constituencies had previously struggled to find water for domestic use. Edited by R.Wamochie