Two years after turning professional, Jeff Kubwa will be chasing his maiden win at the Lake Serena Open, the 5th leg of Safari Tour Golf Series starting today. Kubwa hails from a  golfing family and plays alongside siblings Reuben Kubwa (the only Kenyan deaf golfer), Isaac Makokha (Vet Lab) and Charles Odhiambo (Eldoret). The Muthaiga golfer turned professional in late 2017 and he has not had good results in a game that has been dominated by the big boys including veteran Dismas Indiza, Greg Snow and Kopan Timbe among others. In an interview, he said he is seeking to play better golf this time around after missing to make a cut in last weekend’s Entebbe Open that was won by Great Rift’s Justus Madoya. “I am looking forward to a positive golfing week despite missing the cut at Entebbe Open. For now, I am mentally focused to play my heart out as I want to make the cut and finish on the podium,” said Kubwa at Serena Golf Club in Uganda. Kubwa was placed fourth at the Royal Nairobi meeting. “It was bad to miss the cut at Entebbe Open. This was the first time for me to miss the cut but that is now behind me as I focus on the remaining meetings,” he noted. Vet Lab’s Mike Kisia, who has applied to turn professional, will be the other golfer to watch though featuring as an amateur. Kisia said he had wanted to travel to Entebbe as a pro having submitted his papers for consideration but golf leadership was in Entebbe last weekend. He has, however, vowed to showcase his class during Serena Open despite missing the opportunity. “I want to play the best golf to prove that I have the potential to be a professional,” said Kisia. Meanwhile,  Kisia is still basking in his Hole in One glory during last weekend'sManchester Salver golf tournament in Eldoret. Moses said it was his second time to win such a big encounter on the same hole at the same venue. He won the Hole in One on 16 par 3 in his second round of the tournament. “I felt good just like any golfer despite missing out on the main prize,” said Moses.