Digital secretary in the presidency Dennis Itumbi forwarded the fake letter about an assassination plot against Deputy President William Ruto to a Tangatanga WhatsApp group, a court heard on Wednesday. Noah Keino, a clerk at the Kenya Industrial Research and Development Institute (Kirdi) and administrator in the WhatsApp group testified about Itumbi and the letter in a Milimani law court. "I confirm that on June 20 at 12.17 am, a letter was forwarded to the Tangatanga WhatsApp group, which I later came to know was sent by Dennis Itumbi," Keino testified. Appearing before chief magistrate Martha Mutuku, Keino said, however, that he could not confirm that Itumbi authored the letter since he saw it in three other WhatsApp groups and twice on Facebook at around the same date. "I cannot confirm whether Itumbi also posted the letter on the two posts I saw on Facebook. I, however, knew that Itumbi had sent the letter on WhatApp through social media when he was arrested," Keino testified. Itumbi has pleaded not guilty to charges of publishing a false statement. Keino told he court that after seeing the letter, he typed that the letter was scary and later in the morning commented that as a group they should protect the source of the letter. "Later after seeing the letter, one of the group members said that in his speculation, the author of the letter was a Mrs Kobia. That is where my comment was directed towards," the clerk said. Questioned whether the governors, senators and legislators in the group were interviewed about the letter, the clerk said he had no idea but stated that members started leaving the group after the DCI sought to interview the group members. Keino also said he had neither seen Samuel Gateri, Itumbi's co-accused in the fake letter matter, nor spoken to him before. He also pleaded not guilty. As an administrator of a Tangatanga group, Keino told the court creation of the group was necessitated by the feeling that Ruto was not getting enough publicity ahead of the 2022 General Election. Digital strategist Itumbi appeared before Milimani court magistrate Zainab Abdul in July when the prosecution sought to detain him for 14 days to allow time for investigations. The investigations included looking into a WhatsApp group called Tangatanga movement group with .256 members. Itumbi was arrested in Nairobi's CBD over the fake assassination letter against Ruto. He was taken to DCI headquarters, then he spent the night at Muthaiga police station. The defence argued the arrest of Itumbi was just for drama as the WhatsApp group has a total of 256 members who were not all arrested. "The WhatsApp group includes governors, senators and MPs who are influential, yet he [Itumbi] is a mere public servant, Itumbi is not in a position to interfere with or influence these influential members," the defence said. Itumbi and his co-accused Gateri were both charged at a Milimani court and released on a Sh100,000 cash bail each. (Edited by V. Graham)