Over 200 players are expected to grace the next round of the Johnny Walker Golf Series at the Windsor Golf Hotel and Country Club course this weekend. Windsor resident professional Riz Charania predicts some super golf with ongoing torrential rains currently pounding the country. Charania, one of the top five best male pro golfers in the country, promised thrills and spills adding that the course is in pristine condition 'as our drainage is very good at Windsor'. “I would candidly say holes 2, 11, 14 and 16 probably playing longer than usual due to the current rainy season," said Charania. Some of the home players anticipated to shine on the occasion include Santi Villamizar playing off handicap 2, Avnish Bhandari playing off handicap 3 and scratch player Akshay Chandaria. The event will offer players several category prizes including the lady winner, junior winner, guest winner, nearest to the pin and longest drive among others. Kenya Breweries Limited Managing Director Jane Karuku reiterated the company’s commitment to supporting sports in the country while noting the importance of the Johnnie Walker Golf series “We are proud as Kenya Breweries limited to be associated with golf as a premier sports activity. I believe the 2019 Johnnie walker golf series will present a good opportunity for golfers to interact with our brand even as we seek to promote golf tourism through this circuit to ensure we steer it to the next level,” said Mrs. Karuku. KBL Head of Premium Spirits, Grace Nshemeire-Gwaku said that KBL is excited to sponsor the series under its Johnnie Walker Brand. "Johnny Walker prides itself as a leading sports sponsor both in Kenya and overseas. Our Karting Championship in Kenya and golf series positions the brand as a key stakeholder in the sports industry" observed Grace. "Being the official Formula One whiskey brand reaffirms our commitment towards sports sponsorship for donkey's years. Our association with sports and indeed the Series speaks volumes about our commitment towards the promotion of golf in the country.” This season's Johnny Walker Golf series teed off at Royal Nairobi Golf Club on November 2 and headed to Karen Country Club on the weekend of November 9 and 10 of November and now at Windsor this weekend. In December, the Series will stop at Thika Sports Club and head to Muthaiga on January 18. In February, the Series will traverse Sigona, Limuru and Nakuru well in time for the Grand Finale at Vet Lab Sports Club in March.