An ownership row over a private school in Mombasa has threatened to derail learning next year. On Saturday, headmaster of the Al Khair Muslim School, who is also a co-founder, found himself in trouble with a section of parents allied to co-founder Fardhosa Woche, popularly known as  Hawa. Parents are now in limbo, fearful they might have to look for another school for their children next year. “We don’t know how this will end. I have started looking for another school, just in case,” parent Disi Jefwa said. Headteacher Caleb Ombuto Ombati on Saturday has whisked away from angry parents. They accused him of scheming to out elbow co-founder Hawa from the proprietorship of the school. Ombati, who was presiding over a parents’ meeting at the school, had to flee after the group of parents at the meeting suddenly turned violent, spewing insults at him. He sought shelter elsewhere in the same building before a group of parents allied to him rushed him to safety. The uproar took place less than 100 metres from Makupa police station. The meeting resumed at another venue. Al Khair Muslim School was founded in 2018 by Hawa and Ombati, who has a 16 per cent-shareholding stake. He earns a Sh60,000 monthly salary. Hawa accuses Ombati of going behind her back to try and change the name of the school and opening another bank account without her consent or knowledge. She sued Ombati, the court ruled in her favour. The Mombasa High Court ordered Ombati to vacate the school premises in line with a resolution passed at a management meeting. Justice P. J. Otieno ordered both parties to meet on November 29 at 3pm for a handing over ceremony. Otieno said it must be attended by the school owner's brother, the school's deputy headmaster and the school bursar with their counsel. Ombati is also out of court on bond after he was charged with conspiring to cause injury to the school director, Hawa. He had been jointly charged alongside Eluid Kidake, Wadra Rabill and Olpha Mwebi. They denied the charges and were all released on bond. There are two signboards at the school’s gate with two versions of the name and two different mottos. One signboard reads Al-Khier Muslim School — Knowledge is Power; another reads  Al Khair Muslim School— Excellence Together.  (Edited by V. Graham) 