Senate Majority Leader Kipchumba Murkomen brought proceedings of the BBI launch to a standstill after he complained about the official programme of the event at Bomas. When invited to speak, Murkomen said the BBI launch programme was biased and some leaders were hushed from airing their views. "We must have an honest opinion, even the way Junet is running the program is unfair. This program was to hear about other leaders opinion, "Murkommen said. "To build an honest Kenya we must be able to put other leaders ideas on the table. There is no way I'll be told to sanitise this situation. I demand to be heard." Suna East MP Junet Mohammed who was the MC of the ceremony tried to moderate the occassion but the Elgeyo Marakwet Senator did not step back. "Hold on, Relax . I demand to be heard," he said. The delegates at this point heckled but the vocal legislator spoke beyond the boos. "Who mobilised the people to come to this podium? I slept at 4 am reading this BBI report and I must be heard," Murkomen went on. BBI Taskforce Chairman Yusuf Haji was forced to interceded for him and pleaded with the crowd to listen to him. "Mpeeni uyu time aseme yake(Give him time),"Yusuf Haji said. A bitter Murkomen further said he appreciated the taskforce for a good job with coming up with a conclusive document that will forge discussion. "I dare say if it was not for your leadership your excellency I would not be the Majority Leader.We want the same opportunities for even the minority groups not opportunities clustered for the big boys." "God bless Kenya. Kwendeni huko," the senator added. Kenya will see the return of the position of Prime Minister if the Building Bridges Initiative Taskforce proposals are to be implemented in full. The BBI team appeared to make proposals that would lead Kenyans to a referendum with all proposal made likely to come through Bills or policy changes. The report proposes that Kenyans continue to elect their President who remains the Head of State and Government. The report also says that the Deputy President should remain the principal assistant to the President and will be the running mate. The President will then appoint an MP from the largest party or coalition in Parliament as Prime Minister who will take up the position after being approved by Parliament. The report adds that the Prime Minister shall have supervision and execution of the day-to-day functions and affairs of the Government.