I welcome the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) report that was unveiled to the public by President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga. It is not a final document, but one which is now on the table for Kenyans to debate, enrich with ideas, and say what they support in the document or not; and what they would want to be added. For us who were in the Committee of Experts that delivered the Constitution, this document captures the spirit of the Harmonized Draft which had the post of Prime Minister, two deputy prime ministers, Leader of Official Opposition, and also had ministers from both Houses of Parliament. So, for me, we are correcting the mistakes of Naivasha which saw a number of these provisions removed from the draft Constitution. But the other thing that needs to be addressed apart from the expanded Executive is the composition of the Judicial Service Commission (JSC). As lawyers, we think the commission should be restructured. If you recall, we have a judge from the Supreme Court, Court of Appeal, High Court, and a magistrate. In addition, we have the Chief Justice and the Deputy Chief Justice. We think those numbers have been used to favour the Judiciary, particularly in the recruitment and promotion of judges. There is a misuse of the majority. It is also supposed to be restructured so that we don’t have complaints being brought against judges yet they are the ones who sit. During a recent debate at our annual conference, we were thinking of the Ugandan model where retired judges and senior lawyers who are not in active practice sit in the commission. This will enrich the BBI document and deal with the perception that judges are pushing their own cause. Another issue we should include is the swearing-in of judges. Sometimes the President refuses to appoint them. There are some areas where the President needs to appoint so that people are sworn in. Since it has not been addressed in the BBI report, let us think of it as this conversation goes on. The matter of creating a Health Service Commission had been proposed to us but the Naivasha meeting resolved it could be fixed through legislation, which I believe is still possible with the latest recommendations. Generally, this is a document that can start a conversation about how to improve the way we conduct our business as a country. The constitutional lawyer spoke to The Star