Kenya Premier League title dark horses Mathare United and Kakamega Homeboyz collide at the Kenyatta Stadium in Machakos in a lunchtime kickoff as the action continues across the country this weekend. Sitting in fourth and sixth respectively with similar 17 points, the two sides have emerged as unlikely challengers to Gor Mahia's dominance in the top-flight league. Homeboyz, though, found out the hard way that it will not be a walk in the park to dethrone the record league winners. Nicholas Muyoti's charges were thrashed 3-0 by K'Ogalo last time out and they will be out to redeem themselves against the Slum Boys whose own unbeaten run was ended a couple of weeks ago. Mathare on the contrary, are the only team to inflict defeat on the league leaders and coach Salim Ali was pleased that they bounced back quickly from the setback of a first league defeat at the hands of Sofapaka. Ali's boys thrashed basement side Chemelil Sugar 4-1 to stay seven points adrift of the top spot. "We could not afford to drop more points and had to win against Chemelil,” Salim said on the club's portal after the game played at the Muhoroni grounds. “The boys responded in the right fashion and as a coach, I can only thank them for getting the job done and ending a tough week for us in a positive way," he remarked Goals from Daniel Otieno, Chris Oduor, Clifford Alwanga and James Kinyanjui secured the points that granted Mathare a fourth win and third away from home. Salim noted that the team’s performances on the road are due to the players playing with reduced pressure than when at home. “At the moment, we are playing with more confidence when we are away. It is why we have won four games away from home if you count the Sony win. Even our most attacking displays have come on the road.  If we can play with the same confidence when we host matches then we will be closer to seeing what this team is capable of,” he added ahead of today's game. Otieno who is emerging as the next big thing at Mathare and will in the long term fill the goal-scoring boots of Alwanga. Homeboyz will be hoping to rediscover their winning ways after the humbling defeat against K'Ogalo.