Kenyans on Twitter on Sunday went after Garissa Woman Rep Anab Subow for calling opposition leader Raila Odinga 'uncircumcised'. In a video that has gone viral, Subow is heard referring to Raila as a 'devil who is not circumcised'. "Shetani ashindwee........na huyu mzee anaitwa baba, sijui ni baba ya nani. Huyu mzee ni mkubwa hata hajatahirishwa. Yeye ni baba lakini aende Bondo akatahirishwe kwanza. Kwani yeye ni nani, mbona hazeeki,"Subow said. This loosely means, "Rebuke the devil..... this mzee called Baba and I don't know whose baba he is. He is old but he is not circumcised. He might be baba but let him go to Bondo and be circumcised first. Whom does he think he is, why is he not getting old". Subow went on to say, "Anasema Kibra ni yake, but sisi tunajua Kibra ni ya wakenya.....sio bedroom yake. Tutampeleka Bondo aende azeeke akufie huko". (He is saying Kibra belongs to him, but we know Kibra belongs to all Kenyans and not his bedroom. We shall take him to Bondo where he shall age gracefully and die). Subows remarks came just a day after in a series of attacks against Raila, Deputy president accused him of having deployed militia to disrupt and cause chaos in the Kibra by election. "The only strategy and structure Tinga's party had which largely succeeded was,violence, chaos,mayhem & terror meted out by organized baba's militia the same instruments used by terrorists organizations including outlawed groups," Ruto wrote on his twitter page. Subow was in a group of Jubilee politicians who were roughed up by youth. In the video widely shared, Subow is captured talking to Dagoreti North MP Simba Arati as youth tried to rough up Kimilili MP Didmus Barasa but were calmed. But KOT and Kenyans across the board condemned Subows  words, saying that it is disrespectful to Raila. While some said such utterances are not to be uttered by a Muslim woman, others said that Subow should swallow her pride and apologise. Mbita MP Millie Odhiambo in her response said it was uncivilised for Subow to utter such words yet she has never uttered any word in parliament. There is a woman who has abused Hon Raila Odinga calling him "shetani" and asking him to go and get circumcised. I thought she was an MCA but was shocked to learn she is the Women Rep of Garrisa County. I have never heard her represent the great people of Garrisa in parliament," she said.