A group of politicians affiliated to the opposition have hit back at former Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale for fighting with youth in Kibra. The legislators led by Suba North Member of Parliament Millie Odhiambo said Khalwale has lowered himself to a level that he cannot be redeemed. This comes after Khalwle was filmed hurling stones and engaging in running battles with sections of youth during the Kibra by election. The former vocal legislator also known as the 'bull fighter' was captured with stones in his hands as he traversed various polling stations in the mini poll. Khalwale was the chief campaigner of the Jubilee Party candidate McDonald Mariga who came second with about 11,000 votes compared to ODM's Imran Okoth who won with a landslide of over 24,000 votes. But the opposition MPs said after Khalwale lost in the last general election where he wanted to ouster governor Wycliffe Oparanya, life had become difficult for him. Other MPs were Eve Obara (Kabondo Kasipul), Gideon Ochanda (Bondo) and Patrick Musimba (Kibwezi West). With such acts, the MPs said Khalwale demonstrated his love for divisive politics during polls. The MPs were speaking during a fundraiser to support Rachuonyo East Entrepreneurs Savings and Credit Co-operative society in Kabondo Kasipul constituency. Millie Odhiambi said whether ex or current, politicians should always strive to serve as role models as they are ranked higher in the society. “We condemn the former Senator for demonstrating the act of thuggery that was witnessed in Kibra led by Khalwale. Let him learn to be a role model in peace building in Kenya,”  she said. She said  Khalwale and his brigade had planned to cause chaos and later blamed it on ODM supporters. “A number of ODM leaders who were stationed at different voting places including me were harassed. I was attacked by our rivals in the election,” she said. Obara and Ochanda argued that election was marred with bribery to influence voters’ choices. Obara asked IEBC to investigate the perpetrators of voter bribery. “A lot of money was being issued to voters to influence their decision. It’s was a waste of public resources and electoral agency should investigate it,” Obara said. The MP said voter bribery sets a bad precedence during polls. “Let voters make their decisions independently but not because of money,” she said.