Kenya Hockey Union might face sanctions from Africa Hockey Federation following the late withdrawal of Blazers from the Cup of Club Championship scheduled for Ismailia, Egypt from December 1-10. Defending champions Blazers (formerly Telkom) have revealed they won't fly to North Africa due to financial constraints with their decision comes barely five days before the tournament starts. There are normally regulations and timelines to be followed when a team decides to pull out with late withdrawals carrying significant sanctions. Blazers had banked on landing some support to boost what they had in their kitty but none came their way opting to pull out. They become the third Kenyan team not to honour this year's showpiece after the men's sides, former national champions Kenya Police and reigning champions Butali Warriors opted out. Despite the looming punitive action, KHU chairman Nashon Randiek remained optimistic that the continental governing body, which was established in 1964  will not penalise KHU. He said: "It is a sad situation so to speak. It's less than a week to the commencement of the tournament and Blazers cannot make it due to their on-going financial struggles.  It's a decision we cannot comment on at the moment because we are in talks with the AHF due to the sanctions involved." "Africa Hockey has to tell us how they view the situation. We hope Kenya Hockey Union will not be penalised," remarked the retired Lieutenant. "Anything slapped to Blazers comes to KHU because it is the country's governing body. The  team had the intention to honour the tournament but maybe somebody along the line did not keep their pledge." Blazers have faced financial inadequacies since their 30-year sponsorship deal with the telecommunication company came to an end in June this year. The company said it had reached the decision after 'reviewing it's brand assets strategy' with a view to aligning it with its ongoing business development. Blazers sealed their record 22nd title on Saturday with 4-0 drubbing of United States International University. Coach Jos Openda said there was no point of pushing the club above its means. He said their focus is to begin afresh as a team as they target four new signings for the 2020 season. He said: "Financial implications are too high and there's no point of pushing us to the wall. The tournament has got a trophy only no prize money. We want to begin the process of registration of Blazers and opening an account. The team needs two deadly strikers, one strong midfielder and a reliable defender."