Chemelil Sugar assistant coach Charles Odera feels he is best suited to succeed his boss Francis Baraza who is reported to have parted ways with the club. Baraza has mysteriously been missing from the dugout in their last three league matches against Posta Rangers, Kisumu All Stars and Kakamega Homeboyz, raising eyebrows over his future at the club. The former Kenyan international was earlier linked with a move to debutants Kisumu All-Stars but yesterday, it emerged that he had inked a deal with Tanzania-based Biashara United. However, Odera denied the move, saying Baraza is yet to formally tender his resignation. He, however, acknowledged being privy to the latter's job offers from a number of interested clubs. Efforts to reach Baraza were futile. Odera, a former Oserian FC defender who took charge in the last three duels, has reiterated his readiness to unhook the club from the jaws of relegation should he be given the head coach roles. The financially struggling outfit who have narrowly cheated the drop in the past three seasons remain the sole team in the Kenyan Premier League without a win this season from eight rounds. The Awasi-based club have a point from a possible 24. “I am ready for the head coach job should Baraza leave. He excused himself from the team to attend to a personal matter but I can confirm that he is yet to hand in his resignation letter. I have been handling the team in his absentia and I am ready to fit in his shoes should he exit." He added: "We have been in constant communication with him and at some point, he had hinted that he had been approached by a number of clubs.” Meanwhile, Odera has attributed their poor run to lack of money and the massive exodus of senior players in the last transfer period. The club recently dished out a walkover to Bandari after failing to travel to Mombasa and were part of the six sides who were petitioning for the suspension of the league till a new title sponsor is brought on board. “Truth be told we have struggled due to lack of money. We also lost a handful of players but there is light at the end of the tunnel.”