The Kitui county assembly this week is expected to break the long-standing budget stalemate to make room for the financing of county operations and projects. Majority chief whip Stephen Musili says they are now ready to settle the issue. MCAs and the county executive have been at loggerheads over the Sh11.5 billion estimates and their feuding has derailed the county's development agenda. On June 28, the assembly passed the budget, but Governor Charity Ngilu rejected it on grounds that the MCAs had made alterations that exceeded the one per cent allowed in law. The MCAs felt short-changed because Ngilu’s executive had failed to capture the Sh40 million development money for each of the 40 wards. They said they had agreed with the county chief to have the cash catered for in the estimates. While debating, therefore, they varied the budget to include the money, much to Ngilu's disappointment. As the battle raged, the county government opted to spend funds on a vote on account — only on recurrent expenditure, while development funds remained untouched. On Saturday, Majority chief whip Musili said they are now ready to settle the issue. "As MCAs, we have toned down our hardline stance and decided to pass the budget after Governor Ngilu agreed to our demands. We will pass the budget in order to unlock development funds," he said. Musili said MCAs had softened their stance to allow residents to realise development in their wards. "Soon you will see development projects being carried out in your villages because with have reached an accord with the governor. But if things are done against expectations or irregularly, then we will not watch passively," he said. The Kyuso MCA spoke during a fundraiser at Kandwia Primary School in his ward,  Mwingi North. "By this Thursday, we will have debated and passed the budget," he told the gathering. On Monday, Minority leader Alex Nganga, who was elected on Ngilu’s Narc party ticket, expressed optimism that the long-awaited budget will be approved. "We have consulted,  negotiated and embraced dialogue to unlock the budget stalemate, thus we expect the budget to be passed this week," the Miambani MCA said. (Edited by F'Orieny)