Teachers in Vihiga have appealed to the Teachers Service Commission to rescind its decision to cut links with Kenya National Union of Teachers. County Knut executive secretary Maurice Chalenga made the appeal when he addressed the press at his Mbale town office on Tuesday evening. Chalenga, who spoke on behalf of teachers in the county who are affiliated to Knut, attributed the hardline stance by TSC chief executive officer Nancy Macharia for the escalating rift between the union and the teachers’ employer. Chalenga said primary school teachers have expressed shock over unfolding events, in particular, TSC’s latest move to sever almost half a century's recognition link with their union. “Primary school teachers are appealing to TSC to urgently review and withdraw the notice of intent to terminate Knut's recognition agreement,” he said in a press statement, adding the move would adversely affect the profession. Calling for a truce between the two agencies, Chalenga urged TSC to reconsider and restore what he described as past cordial working relationships between teachers and their employer. He asked Macharia to emulate her predecessors, including Benjamin Sogomo, Kisii Governor James Ongwae and Gabriel Lengoiboni whom he hailed for fostering an amicable relationship with the tutors' union. He further praised former Knut secretaries including the late Ambrose Adeya Adongo, Francis Ng’ang’a, Lawrence Majali and the late David Okuta Osiany for maintaining corporation with the employer amidst numerous battles between the union and TSC. Last week, TSC issued the teachers’ umbrella body a two-month notice to terminate its recognition agreement after its membership numbers fell below 50 per cent of the required threshold. If effected, the decision means Knut would exist as a shell unlike in its heydays when it represented and fought for rights of teachers in the country. Knut would no longer participate in Collective Bargaining Agreements while the teachers' agency fees would go to its competitor, the Kenya Union of Post-Primary Education Teachers which now stands as the recognised labour union. Edited by R.Wamochie