President Uhuru Kenyatta's daughter Ngina Kenyatta has come under sharp criticism after her youth empowerment speech. Ngina on Saturday spoke during the African Philanthropy Forum whose theme was “Accelerating Youth Employment in Africa.” She challenged youths not only in Kenya but in Africa to study specific courses that address specific needs in their location. "It is a pleasure for me to be part of a forum discussing such an important issue that affects us throughout the continent. There’s a saying, give a man a fish and feed him for one day, show him how to fish and feed him for a lifetime," Ngina said. Gracing the Forum as the Director of Kenyatta Trust Foundation, Ngina urged the youth to seek education and skills that can address their development and economic needs. "We come from a continent of immense greatness and it is now our time as the youth to address and find solutions to the issue of unemployment by going into new and innovative fields," she added. Kenyans on Twitter, however, seemed angered by her sentiments saying that she cannot relate to challenges of a common youth. "What does Ngina Kenyatta know about the problems facing youths in this country? Problems that her papa is downplaying.  No matter what you say, your father's wrong decisions have affected Kenyan youths in adverse ways your words can never change, "Abraham tweeted. " I look forward to that day when those who talk about unemployment will be people who actually understand what unemployment is, "Ben Kairo said. Ben Ogola said, "There's not a single thing Ngina Kenyatta knows about growing up as a youth in Kenya." ''How can a born in wealthy family advice ordinary Kenyan youths? She doesn't know what poverty means.," Jane Kimani said. "Ngina Kenyatta speaks impeccable English but she doesn't understand the suffering of Wanjiku nor the bad economy caused by her moribund and inept father," Mohammed Onyango said. A faction of  Kenyans, however, concurred with the head of state’s eldest daughter on the issue others opined that it was not in her position to address the matter. "You are pouring poverty anger to Ngina like she had a choice from which womb to be born! Direct your anger to the right person not an innocent girl, "Dennuh K said. "Give credit to the young lady. articulate and loads of sensible ideas, "Ahmed Nasiir tweeted. Ngina as she concluded her speech cited an example of a young man by the name Moses Etot from Turkana County, who is taking a course in petroleum engineering under the sponsorship of the trust in one of the top universities in China.