ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna has launched a scathing attack on ANC Leader Musalia  Mudavadi describing his recent comments as baseless. In a tweet shared by the ODM party on Wednesday, Mudavadi has been urged by the SG to desist from unnecessary tirades against their leader Raila Odinga. "The former VP’s remarks on the PL on Monday were baseless and unwarranted, only aimed at attracting cheap political mileage which doesn’t come so easily, Mudavadi has been urged by the SG to desist from unnecessary tirades against their leader Raila Odinga."read part of the tweet. This outburst was fuelled by Mudavadi's remarks during his last rally to drum up support for Kibra ANC candidate Eliud Owalo. The former Finance Minister accused Raila of shielding corrupt governors. He said some were already being investigated by the Directorate of Criminal Investigations and Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC). The governors the former VP was referring to were Makueni's Kivutha Kibwana, Kitui's Charity Ngilu and Kirinyaga's Anne Waiguri who campaigned On Sunday for ODM's Imran Okoth. While none of the three has been charged in court, all of them have previously been questioned by the ethics agency. “I saw many governors here. Most of those governors have misappropriated county government resources and have their files at the DCI and EACC. They are seeking protection from him (Raila) against the ongoing investigations against them,” Mudavadi said. The former deputy premier further described Raila Odinga as the “biggest political burden to the people of Kenya." Mudavadi said Raila was not grateful for the support ANC and other parties had given him over the years and "should now look elsewhere for beasts of burden, as he seems to be doing". "It is ironic that a person who is totally incapable of travelling even the shortest distance on his own political fuel in Kibra should accuse anybody else of being "a political burden," Mudavadi said through the ANC secretary-general Barrack Muluka. Mudavadi said Raila's political mask has fallen off. "His time is up. The whole country knows that Raila has ridden on the backs of others in 2013, and 2017. He is trying to do the same in Kibra," Mudavadi said. The ANC leader also said it was wrong for Raila to campaign for the Building Bridges Initiative report before it was released. "Are we supposed to surrender our faculties to some demi-god and support things that we have not seen?" he posed. On Thursday, 118,658 registered voters are expected to vote from a field of 24 candidates to be the next Kibra MP. The by-election was occasioned by the death of Ken Okoth, who succumbed to cancer in July. Among the candidates seeking to replace him are; Jubilee's  McDonald Mariga, ODM's Bernard Imran Okoth, ANC's Eliud Owalo among others. Raila is fighting to retain the Kibra parliamentary seat while Mudavadi and Deputy President William Ruto have pledged to end ODM's hold of the constituency. Ruto is backing McDonald Mariga while Mudavadi is fronting Eliud Owalo against Raila's Okoth.