Some issues touching on devolution have not been addressed in the Building Bridges Initiative BBI report, Council of Governors Chairman Wycliffe Oparanya has said. The Kakamega Governor said even though the BBI has touched on the problems facing devolution, most of the issues have not been talked about. Speaking on Wednesday during the BBI launch at Bomas, Oparanya expressed concern on which framework has been put in place in case of a BBI opposition. "Tukiwa na maoni tofauti tutapeleka wapi?," he said. The Council of Governors had come up with their Ugatuzi Initiative, advocating for more resources to the counties and seeking to strengthen counties. The governors' Ugatuzi Initiative proposed an expanded Executive with the President as the Head of State under the BBI. They had proposed an Executive comprising of a Deputy President, a Prime Minister and two deputy Prime Ministers. Oparanya, however, applauded the Uhuru-Raila handshake saying it has brought peace to the country. "Your coming together has brought peace to the country. Thank you for putting the interest of Kenyans before yours by choosing the path of peace and dialogue," he said. "The unveiling of this report to the public is a manifestation of the resourcefulness of our two leaders. It is only through dialogue that democracy is guaranteed and people's will demonstrated." Oparanya has urged Kenyans to read the report and give their honest recommendations. Kenya will see the return of the position of Prime Minister if the Building Bridges Initiative Taskforce proposals are to be implemented in full. The BBI team appeared to make proposals that would lead Kenyans to a referendum with all proposal made likely to come through Bills or policy changes. The report proposes that Kenyans continue to elect their President who remains the Head of State and Government. The report also says that the Deputy President should remain the principal assistant to the President and will be the running mate. The report was officially handed over to President Uhuru Kenyatta and opposition leader Raila Odinga on Tuesday.