 Twenty-six 26 MCAs from the Rachuonyo clan in Homa Bay have formed a caucus to push for development and seek a political path ahead of 2022. The Rachuonyo Members of Homa Bay County Assembly Forum was formed on Sunday during a meeting in Oyugis. Members include MCAs from Karachuonyo, Kasipul and Kabondo Kasipul constituencies that form the greater Rachuonyo. Kabondo East MCA James Ochieng’ was elected chairman. The forum falls under the umbrella of Rachuonyo Unity, a larger organisation consisting of professionals, traders and farmers. Lake Basin Development Authority chairman Odoyo Owidi was unanimously endorsed as spokesman of the Rachuonyo Unity organisation. MCAs Julius Gaya (Central Karachuonyo), Dan Were (Kakelo Kokwanyo), Kevin Onyango (nominated), Geoffrey Anyango (Kabondo West), Mola Ochola (West Kasipul), Peter Kaula (Wang’chieng’), Joan Ogada (Kojwach) and Jane Kiche (nominated) attended the meeting. Geoffrey Opiyo was elected secretary-general, Edwin Kakach (co-ordinator) and Ruth Ombura (treasurer). Ochieng’ said the forum will help solve problems facing residents. “It’s true that you cannot achieve any development agenda if people are not united. This forum is our symbol of unity and we’ll share our opinions through this platform,” Ochieng’ said. Owidi said the MCAs’ forum and Rachuonyo Unity will enable residents to speak in one voice. He said unity would make it easy for Rachuonyo people to champion their development and political agenda. “Rachuonyo clan forms the majority of voters in Homa Bay but since they lacked unity among leaders they could not achieve their development objectives,” Owidi said. “I feel happy because we now have a platform through which residents can prepare their memoranda to lobby for various development activities.” Nominated MCA Kevin Onyango said they tasked Owidi to speak to Governor Cyprian Awiti who hails from the region and three MPs Ong’ondo Were (Kasipul), Adipo Okuome (Karachuonyo) and Eve Obara (Kabondo Kasipul) to join the forum. “We’re sending Owidi as the spokesman to talk to the four leaders so that they also come on board for the sake of the unity of our people,” Onyango said. The unity forum is seen as a way through which the Rachuonyo region will front one of their own to succeed Awiti whose two terms end in 2022. Awiti comes from Karachuonyo. A host of leaders have expressed interest in becoming the next governor of Homa Bay. They include Woman Representative Gladys Wanga, Deputy Governor Hamilton Orata, County Secretary Isaiah Ogwe (all from Rangwe region) and MP John Mbadi and businessman Sammy Wakiaga (both from Suba region). Former Kasipul MP Oyugi Magwanga and Kuppet secretary-general Akello Misori also want the seat. They both hail from the greater Rachuonyo region.  Edited by Peter Obuya