The ownership tussle over the new Kenyatta University Hospital could be far more vicious than thought after claims emerged that former KU vice chancellor Olive Muganda refused to handover formally. A petition by UASU Kenyatta University chapter filed with the National Assembly's select committee on implementation of House rules lays bare how competing private interests could be at the centre of the battle for the ownership of the Sh8.7 billion hospital funded by a Chinese loan. Documents paint a picture of underneath battles pitting the Mugenda-led hospital board against the university management for the control of the new facility. President Uhuru Kenyatta gazetted the hospital as a parastatal under the Ministry of Health on January 25, effectively severing the relationship between it and the university. The lecturers' union claims that efforts to delink the hospital from the university for suspect reasons started as early as 2016 when the KU council under the chairmanship of Ratemo Michieka attempted to change the name of the hospital to Kenyatta University Health Care Systems Limited. Letters adduced show the council appointed Mugenda as the chief executive of the new entity. Under the supervision of the university council, her terms of service as CEO were to be the same as the ones she enjoyed as the university's VC. This, however, never happened as activist Okiya Omtatah successfully challenged the change of name and Mugenda's appointment. But the Public Service Commission seconded Mugenda to chair the board of the hospital with effect from April 1, 2019 after it was declared a parastatal. The management dispute turned explosive when the the hospital's acting chief executive Andrew Toro wrote to the current vice chancellor Paul Wainaina under the authority of the Mugenda-led board demanding that the university releases all the documents and materials in its possession relating to the hospital. The documents demanded by June 14 included the title deed, initial proposal about the hospital, all contract documents, feasibility studies, economic analysess as well as architectural designs. Other documents were the government concessional loan agreement signed in 2011 and minutes of important meetings that discussed issues relating to the hospital. The hospital management also asked for all the photos and videos connected to the hospital, including site visits by China Exim Bank officials, China and Kenyan government officials, stages of construction as well as foreign visits by local officials to university-owned hospitals in South Africa, Holland, China, US and Turkey. But university council chairman Shem Migot-Adhola on July 17  wrote to Mugenda, saying she had not handed over to her successor when she vacated office and that financial audit of her tenure in office was not yet done. The chairman's letter was a result of ceaseless agitation by UASU demanding a report on the state of handover by the former vice chancellor. Current vice chancellor Wainaina had written to the council chair on May 16 last year declaring that "...there was no official handover when I took over the office of the vice chancellor in an acting capacity on March 21, 2016." In the letter, Wainaina expressed the need for audit of the finances of the university for "the immediate period before the informal handing over" of the office in 2016. In the alternative, he requested a formal handing over be organised "to seal the gap and establish the financial status of the university at the time I took over as vice chancellor." But in a response on July 30, Mugenda dismissed the claims that she refused to hand over, explaining that since Wainaina was succeeding her on acting basis, she provided handing over notes specifying the status of the institution with other relevant information. "The handing over notes were personally given to the Ag. vice chancellor when my term came to an end in March 2016," she wrote. Since Wainaina's confirmation two years later in 2018, she wrote, the new VC had never sought any other information from her on handing over "nor did he identify gaps that needed my input." She said she left all the relevant documents, including title deeds of various properties belonging to the university, with her personal secretary who was the custodian of the document safes. The secretary also left the university in March 2017, leaving all the documents behind, she said in the letter. "For the last three years and four months, neither the university management nor council has ever reached out to me for any clarification or sought any extra hand over details yet the university has been running smoothly," she added, terming the new claims outlandish. The former VC said she had noted attempts to tie the repeat handover of the office of the vice chancellor to the request by the hospital management for the documents, which she said, the "council chairman committed to provide during the handover ceremony." "With respect, I do not see the linkage and we would implore you not to mix up unrelated issues," she wrote to the current chairman Migot Adhola. Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua had directed that the hand over of the hospital by the university to the new board be effected by May 24. Besides being the new hospital's board chair and Judicial Service Commission member, Mugenda is draws a salary as a lecturer at the university. UASU, in its petition, demands that a fresh handover be done and the financial position of the university during the tenure of Mugenda be established. The union claims the Mugenda administration could have mortgaged the university through hefty borrowing to fund unending, huge infrastructural projects and then failing to remit the workers' statutory cuts to pay the loans.