Nyeri town Member of Parliament Ngunjiri Wambugu found himself in a twitter spat with Narok Senator Ledama Olekina. The two exchanged bitter words following recent government appointments in various parastatals. Senator Olekina had hit back at Petroleum and Mining CS John Munyes for appointing Macharia Irungu as Kenya Pipeline Company's new Managing Director. Hudson Andambi had been the acting MD since December 2018 after the arrest of former MD Joe Sang and other top managers on allegations of corruption. In a statement, the CS said that the KPC Board of Directors settled on Irungu after a vigorous recruitment process. The board received 88 applicants seeking to fill the position out of which nine were shortlisted. The CS said Irungu scored the highest points from a final list of three names and brings a 28-year experience in the field to the company. Up to his appointment, Irungu has been working as the MD of the Gulf Africa Petroleum Corporation which is a member of the Total Group. But Olekina said he will move to court to challenge the appointment. “Even before a sheep empty it’s urine tribalism continues in Kenya!! This is the worst form of Government in the history of Kenya. We will proceed to court to challenge this tribalism! Kwani sisi ni Guest in this country? Nonsense!!!!!,” he wrote on his twitter. According to the senator, CS Munyes is only a minister by name whom PS Kamau controls and disregard his decisions. He said for the longest time Munyes drove an old Vehicle while his PS drove a new SUV until he had to be given a ‘better’ second hand Prado by the head of public service. “This hypocrisy of inclusivity in Kenya must end! Kenyans wake up! How do you justify filling all positions with one tribe ? Kenya Power new MD is Kikuyu, KenGen MD is kikuyu , NTSA is kikuyu, REA is kikuyu the board of KPC has 4 Kikuyus out of 9 members! And you talk of BBI?,” he said. But this did not go well with Wambugu who they would not allow Olekina to build a profile as a Masai kingpin by selling Kikuyu-hate. “Senator, Wacha upuz. Kwani this country has only 6 parastatals. We will not allow you to build a profile as a Masai kingpin by selling Kikuyu-hate. No way my friend.  Hiyo hatutambui,” he said. However Olekina hit back saying, “Upuzi ni wewe! Don’t think we are stupid ... every policy in kenya today is skewed towards benefiting your region. Mjinga Ameherefuka! We will not allow you to fool us! You want to tell me the energy sector which is the most lucrative can only be managed by your tribe! Nonsense!”.