Tech leaders have unveiled steps Kenya can follow to create jobs for its growing population, which is likely to hit 66 million in the next 15 years. Currently, Kenya’s total labour force is about 19 million people, according to the World Bank, and will grow rapidly towards 2030. The leaders said without proper planning, the ICT revolution could lead to job losses and drive more people into poverty. They called for a national alliance of government, civil society and business to ensure African countries tap into the ongoing digital explosion to create jobs at home. The proposals were launched yesterday by Econet founder Strive Masiyiwa and Melinda Gates, the co-chair of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. Masiyiwa said the next digital explosion will ride on Artificial Intelligence and will be bigger than the wave that created internet giants such as Google and Facebook. “This will affect everyone but there will be winners and losers. Now is the time to position ourselves as winners,” he said. The launch took place in Nairobi on the sidelines of the ongoing International Conference on Population and Development. The proposal, called ‘Digital Manifesto’, was compiled by Pathways for Prosperity Commission, a think-tank co-chaired by Masiyiwa and Melinda. It can be adapted by all developing countries. It says failure to prepare economies for the digital age risks widening the gap between the rich and poor countries as inequalities within them. “Today, huge gender gaps in digital access are the norm in developing countries. If we invest in closing those gaps, women, and girls can start to meet their untapped potential, building economies that are not only more equal but also more dynamic and ultimately more prosperous,” Melinda said. One of the commission’s key recommendations is that countries craft a national digital compact. This involves bringing together representatives from government, civil society and the private sector to craft the country’s digital roadmap. The commission was launched in Nairobi in 2016. Ruth Kagia, a senior economic advisor to President Uhuru, said this could be the best or worst of times for Kenya. “In times of digital technology for Kenya this is the best of times and its the worst of times if we don’t plan for digital acceleration,” she said. Kagia said the government would only create an enabling environment for innovators. “When it comes to tech, the government follows innovation, to create the policy framework to allow innovation to thrive,” she said. However, Ory Okolloh, the head of Luminate, a civil society financier, said some of the laws being made could kill innovation in Kenya. “We’ve allowed a ban on drones. Swvl and other taxi-hailing companies are facing attacks. We’re talking of innovation, but innovation for who?” she said. Tala founder Shivani Siroya said Kenya was ahead of most African countries in innovation. (Edited by F'Orieny)