 Pumwani Maternity Hospital will from Wednesday start offering outpatient services for the first time in nearly a century. The outpatient unit has already been installed and equipment fitted at a cost of Sh10 million. Drugs worth Sh2 million have also been purchased. Pumwani which has been known for maternal services since it was started 93 years ago, will start offering other healthcare services. City Hall says outpatient services will increase access to affordable healthcare. Health chief officer Mohammed Sahal on Sunday said the increasing basic health needs will be met without unnecessary referrals. “Our aim is to make health services affordable to everyone. The outpatient unit will handle minor ailments such as malaria, typhoid and emergency injuries," he said.  The Pumwani Hospital has undergone major transformation since September last year when 12 bodies of infants were found stored in polythene bags. In April, a breast milk bank was opened at the largest maternal hospital in the country. In the current financial year, City Hall has allocated Sh7.4 billion for health, translating into 21 per cent of the county's Sh35 billion budget. A huge proportion of the funds will be spent on upgrading hospitals and providing medicine and other supplies. In September, the county launched digital payment across health facilities at the Mama Lucy Hospital. The move is aimed at protecting patients from irregular charges and enhance transparency. A fully equipped cold room, a new oxygen plant, a modern surgical unit for deliveries and extra delivery wards have been installed. Laboratory, physiotherapy and screening services will be made available at the Pumwani outpatient unit. Sahal said mothers will be able to access comprehensive healthcare (pre-natal and post-natal) at affordable rates. A medical officer will be in charge of the unit and there is a consultant in place who will handle special cases. Special nurses and clinical officers will also be deployed at the unit. Sahal said the opening the outpatient unit will improve public perception. Medical Superintendent Farhia Abdirahman Affi said they are determined to offer the best services. “We are going far on matters health and I'm very happy with the county government and how it has prioritised health matters. We will do whatever it takes to make sure residents get quality health services," Affi said. He said staff from the maternity facility and students from neighbouring schools will benefit from the outpatient services. "The basic health needs of staff will also be met at one point to facilitate retention of their services," Affi said.  edited by peter obuya