Sharp shooting Linda Alando is ready to fit into the injured Betty Kananu’s shoes during the playoffs starting this weekend. Equity Bank coach David Maina revealed he will utilise Alando in Kananu’s position as they start their title defence. Speaking after the bankers’ 61-51 win over Strathmore University Swords in their final fixture, the tactician said he was banking on Alando. Kananu, Equity and national team stand out, was injured during last month’s Zone Five show in Dar-es-Salaam and will be out until next season. Maina said: “Kananu injury came at a wrong time for us. But in her last game, Alando has proved she is up to the task.” “Her contributions in the Dar championships and the league leaves no doubt that she is ready. I am sure she will deliver,” he confided. Equity Bank took the top spot in the league ahead of their quarter-finals play-off fixture against Tangit Sparks starting this weekend. In an interview, Alando accepted the responsibility bestowed on her, saying she is ready to fill the gap left by Kananu. “I am very ready to show what I can do and take it a notch higher. I am raring to go and will do my best given the chance,” said Alando. The lanky Alando is already brimming with confidence and shot six of ten three-pointers in their win over Strathmore hence remains upbeat. “I take a lot of shots these days. I have the confidence and it is building up daily. I believe I will deliver,” she noted. The other Premier League women quarterfinals set for this weekend will see number two Kenya Ports Authority (KPA) play Swords. In the men’s quarter-finals, Basketball Africa League (BAL) qualifiers KPA will take on Strathmore University Blades. Equity Bank is 1-0 up against Emyba while Ulinzi Warriors and Thunder have already qualified for the semi-finals. Ulinzi dismissed Lakeside from Kisumu 2-0 as Thunder also shut out Eldonets from Eldoret 2-1 in the other game. In the lower division, Mombasa teams Baobab and Coastal Kings, as well as Zetech University, made it to the semis.