Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has criticised the BBI proposal on the position of Prime Minister, saying it is denied constitutional powers to serve effectively. The former vice president said the Building Bridges Initiative report should have also spelt out mechanisms to kick out party rebels as well as push for equal gender representation in government. “Where we stand now it is hard to kick out a rebel member in the party unless he writes to the Speaker to resign. This makes it hard for a party to push a common agenda,” Kalonzo said. The Wiper leader was responding to Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana’s working with ODM leaders against the party wishes in the recent Kibra polls. Kalonzo spoke at the Wiper headquarters in Nairobi after meeting the national delegates’ council to plan for party polls early next year. “They were mean to the PM post and it remains a weak position where he has no finance and privileges to keep the President on track as well as serve Kenyans effectively. They should have come up with a mechanism where the PM can share power with the President,” Kalonzo said. The former VP said the proposed Nasa Chief Minister in the 2017 manifesto was stronger than what the BBI recommended in the report handed to President Uhuru Kenyatta and AU envoy Raila Odinga on Tuesday at State House. “It would have made the Chief Minister or PM powerful and strong enough to ensure the government delivers,” Kalonzo said. Wiper chairman Chirau Ali Mwakwere said the party will hand over a final view on the report after reviewing it fully. “The report had met its expectations but we need more time to evaluate it since it was just released.” Kalonzo and Mwakwere said they were happy since their views were effectively absorbed in the report and the party was well represented. He said the report should not be subjected to another public participation to save taxpayers' funds. He commended the BBI report as having been timely to sort out disunity in the country. Edited by R.Wamochie