President Uhuru Kenyatta on Sunday failed to show up at a thanksgiving ceremony at ACK Kenol Cathedral in Murang'a. The President was expected to grace the occasion but instead sent Interior CS Fred Matingi and his Transport counterpart James Macharia. Attendants had arrived and seated in the church located along Kenol Makuyu highway by 10 am after thorough frisking by the presidential security teams. After waiting, the presidential aides were seen leaving the venue after unmounting  the frisking machines. It is from here the news of the president's not coming were announced. The President was invited to the church service in March this year when area Bishop Julius Karanu visited the state house in the company of senator Irungu Kang'ata. But sources within the presidency said, the head of state was unable to attend the function due to other pressing state issues. Earlier on it had been reported Uhuru and Deputy President would be in Murangá but attending different functions. While Uhuru would be at the Church, Ruto was expected at Kandara for another fundraiser. But sources close to the DP said since this would likely cause a commotion between the president and his deputy, Ruto opted not to travel to Murang'a but instead traveled to Narok. It had been anticipated that Uhuru and Ruto would use the opportunity quail rising temperatures over the BBI project and the census report. Murang’a Governor Mwangi Iria, Area MP Mary WAithera, Senator Irungu and MP Ndindi Nyoro were present. Others were Wangari Mwaniki (Kigumi), Peter Kimari (Mathioya), Mary Waithera (Maragua), Muturi Kigano (Kangema), Joseph Nduati (Gatanga, Isaac Mwaura (Nominated, Peter Weru (Mathira) and Water PS Joseph Irungu among others. There has been a quiet discontent among many Central region leaders who have accused Uhuru of letting them down. As a result, there has been numerous divisions within the Mt. Kenya brigade with one supporting Uhuru's BBI while the other referred to pro-Ruto accusing the president of sideling the region. Four governors from Mt Kenya region Kiraitu Murungi (Meru), Francis Kimemia (Nyandarua), Martin Wambora (Embu) and Laikipia's Nderitu Mureithi appealed to Uhuru to publish the BBI report to salvage the country from divisive speculations. The sharp reactions from Mt Kenya over the BBI contents signal unease in the President's backyard and the possible showdown over the report's far-reaching proposals. It is widely reported to recommend a parliamentary system of governance. The four warned that the ensuing public debate over the Building Bridges Initiative proposals could trigger animosity. With regards to the recently released report on census, several counties from the region rejected the report saying numbers were doctored. Kandara MP Alice Wahome said some people had  played around with figures in the Mt Kenya region in the hopes of changing the course of the 2022 General Election. “I have also looked at Kirinyaga and Nyeri results and I am wondering why the region is the only one that has its population decreasing,” Wahome said.