Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria on Saturday hit back at the Building Bridges Initiative after violence erupted in the just concluded Kibra by-election. Kuria said the famous handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga that birthed the BBI was meant to resolve issues such as electoral violence. The legislator said for the fact that the violence that happened in the 'handshake bedroom' speaks volumes about the entire BBI project. Kuria's remarks on the much anticipated BBI report come as the BBI taskforce awaits to hand it over to Uhuru. The team concluded its findings and said it's only waiting to be invited by the President to hand it to him after collecting the views from Kenyans countrywide. On Thursday, former Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale and Kimilili MP Didmus Barasa had a rough time after they were stoned and kicked out of Kibra by sections of youth. But Kuria said, “I am still in shock that Kenyans are making fun of the violence meted upon Boni Khalwale and Didmus Barasa in Kibra. It is public knowledge that I was not supporting Mariga but we should give everyone a chance to campaign freely anywhere”. Kuria said since Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiangi and the security team have said nothing about the incidences, he presumes it’s fair game and Kenyans should all depend on goons, not on the police. “That this happened in the handshake bedroom speaks volumes about the building battalion’s initiative. Let’s all build our own goons battalions ahead of 2022,” he said. Kuria said in 2007 post-election violence, Kikuyus in the Rift Valley would run to the police to escape murderous gangs but sadly the police would kill and rape them. “In Kibra on Thursday battalions of goons literally took over as the police watched with glee. The more things change, the more things remain the same,” he said. Kuria sentiments were echoed by the Deputy President William Ruto who said it is unfortunate that the Raila Odinga led brigade has not learned lessons with the BBI. Ruto accused Raila and his ODM party for having used the militia to disrupt the Thursday mini polls. “The only strategy and structure Tinga's party had which largely succeeded was violence, chaos, mayhem and terror meted out by organized baba's militia the same instruments used by terrorist organizations including outlawed groups,” Ruto said. He added, “How sad they have learned nothing from handshake!”.