ODM leader Raila Odinga has said the BBI report is not about creating executive positions for him but is focused on a better Kenya. "BBI si mabadiliko ya Raila ama Uhuru. Leo niko, kesho sitakuwa. It is focussed on Wanjiku's needs to make Kenya a better place. We want to see a new Kenya...and a new Kenya will emerge through BBI," Raila said. "BBI is a people's document and the conversations will continue based on Wanjiku's needs." He added the BBI report is focused on among other things making Kenya a corrupt-free nation and fostering unity. "BBI imezungumza kuhusu corruption. Public servants should not engage in businesses either local or international because this brings clash on interest," Raila added. He recounted how in 2017 the country ended up with two 'presidents'; the elected President and people's president which stirred strife among Kenyans. "Our people decided to remove the Uhuru portraits from all public offices and torch them to declare me sovereign. I looked at that and said I was taking Kenya to Somalia," the former PM added. Through the mediation of council of goodwills, President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila sat down and deliberated on how to make Kenya united. "It was not easy because Uhuru and I had initially hurled all sorts of insults at each other. We deliberated for 19 hrs before reaching a conclusion of forming a task force." Kenya will see the return of the position of Prime Minister if the Building Bridges Initiative Taskforce proposals are to be implemented in full. The BBI team appeared to make proposals that would lead Kenyans to a referendum with all proposal made likely to come through Bills or policy changes. The report proposes that Kenyans continue to elect their President who remains the Head of State and Government. The report also says that the Deputy President should remain the principal assistant to the President and will be the running mate. The President will then appoint an MP from the largest party or coalition in Parliament as Prime Minister who will take up the position after being approved by Parliament. The report adds that the Prime Minister shall have supervision and execution of the day-to-day functions and affairs of the Government. "The Prime Minister shall be the Leader of Government Business in the National Assembly. On the President’s tasking, the Prime Minister will chair Cabinet sub-committees," it says.