Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko has for the umpteenth time reshuffled his Cabinet. The changes were done silently last week, as 15 county officials, including Sonko's entire 10-man cabinet, were summoned by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission at its headquarters from tomorrow to record statements. However, the governor's communication director Elkana Jacob said that the changes were not a reshuffle but re-alignment of duties. "This is not a cabinet reshuffle but realignment of duties geared towards having better delivery of services to the residents of Nairobi," he said yesterday. Sonko has reshuffled his Cabinet at least six times since he came into office in September, 2017. The changes have seen County Executive Member Pauline Kahiga move to the Lands Planning and Urban docket, which was headed by Winfred Kathangu. Kathangu has taken over the Agriculture docket, which was occupied by Kahiga. Kahiga has also been made acting CEC for Finance, taking over from Charles Kerich, who was suspended in September, 2019. Also in acting capacity in the Health docket is CEC for Environment Vesca Kagongo. She took over from Mohammed Dagane, who was suspended alongside Kerich. The rest of the docket remains as follows: Allan Igambi (Trade), Newton Munene (ICT and E-Government), Larry Wambua (Devolution), Lucia Mulwa (Education) and Hitan Majevdia (Transport). Since former Deputy Governor Polycarp Igathe fell out with Sonko in December, 2017, resigning in January last year, his post has remained vacant. The indecisive governor even released a list of possible candidates, insisting that his next deputy will be a woman. Almost 12 months down the line, Nairobi also lacks a substantive county secretary, following the suspension of Peter Kariuki last year in September. Chief Officer for Public Service Leboo Morintat has, however, been carrying the CS duties after Sonko appointed him the Deputy County Secretary. County Attorney Lydia Kwamboka made a come back last month after being Kicked out of City Hall, close to an year ago, alongside Kariuki. David Oseko and Christine Ireri have both served in that position in acting capacity. The most affected are in the reshuffles are the chief officers. However, the county government has remained tight-lipped on the exact changes that have happened. In April this year, it was revealed that among the county's 19 chief officers, only eight had their contracts while the rest had been terminated. As a result, on June 12, 2019, City Hall announced vacancies of 10 chief officer positions, county Secretary and director of procurement. However, nothing has been done so far in regards to the chief officers and some of them serve in acting capacity in various dockets. Chief Officer for Devolution Jairus Musumba has been acting in the Education and trade docket. Chief Officer for Water Mohammed Abdirahman has been acting in the Environment department since April after David Makori's contract ended. Chief Officer for urban planning Justus Kathenge was suspended in August for allegedly violating Physical Planning Act and zoning regulations. He was replaced by Halkano Waqo in an acting capacity. However, Chief Officer for Lands Stephen Mwangi has been placed in an acting capacity in the urban planning department. Waqo, who has been the Chief Officer for Finance, is now believed to be have been moved to the Sports docket. Head of Revenue Johnson Akongo is now acting Chief Officer Finance. The rest remains as Eng. Fredrick Karanja (roads) Simon Morintat (Public Service), Sahal Mohamed (health), Peter Mukenya (ICT &E-Government) and Ann Mwenda (Disaster ).