Six people have been arrested in connection with Friday’s lynching of six “bouncers” in Busia. The six were killed on Friday evening by a mob in a case of mistaken identity on suspicion they were involved in the death of businessman Johanes Okoth two weeks ago. The victims are Richard Odero, William Omondi, Evans Onyango, Philip Kwach, David Okeyo and Evans Odoyo. They hail from Kakola village in Nyando constituerncy in Siaya county.  They were hired to provide security during a funeral at Masebula Primary School. On Monday, Western regional police commander Edward Mwamburi said the four suspects, among them a woman, were arrested in their homes on Sunday night. The other two were arrested on Monday afternoon. The four who were arrested on Sunday were arraigned before a Busia magistrate on Monday. They did not take a plea and were remanded. “We’ve made some arrests and the suspects are assisting us with the investigation. There will be more arrests in near future,” Mwamburi said. “As to whoever had hired the deceased, it’s a long story that we don’t want to go into, but we’re looking at the crime that was committed and anyone who may have played any role will face the law.” Mwamburi said the woman who had hired them should have raised her fears with police so officers could be deployed instead of resorting to private security. On Saturday, Mwamburi said villagers became suspicious when they spotted six “strange-looking” people clad in black suits. The six had been following them right from the mortuary. “They noticed one of them had a bag and demanded to search it and upon the search, they discovered three knives. The villagers suspected that the six could have been linked to the death of the businessman and descended on them,” the police boss said. Yesterday, Mwamburi said no one has the right to take another’s life and anyone found will face the full force of the law. On Sunday, Kisumu leaders condemned the killings of the six. Kisumu Governor Anyang  Nyong’o said he was deeply concerned by the gruesome murder of the young men from Kisumu. Nyando MP Jared Okello termed the incident unfortunate and called for a comprehensive probe. “We want to know what really happened that occasioned the deaths of the six bouncers who went to provide security in a funeral in Busia. Family and relatives want justice too,” he said. The MP said those involved in the killings of the six youths should be arrested and charged as well as those behind the murder of the businessman. Muhoroni MP Onyango Koyoo said, “We want to know who killed the six.”