On the stand, Lorena Bobbit had testified that she had no memory of actually cutting off her husband’s penis and only realized what she had done after she had left the apartment and drove away, his penis clutched in her hand. A psychiatrist for the defence testified that she had suffered a brief reactive psychosis under which she attacked the instrument that was the weapon of her torture—The penis. Mmm. Do you think that I can argue the same? That being forced by Chris and so many men before him to give him sexual favours to secure this contract and other jobs, was tantamount to them making a penis an instrument of torture in my eyes? And if I then snapped and tried to destroy the instrument of torture, it was a case of self-defence? I could make a case for it. I would quite enjoy that actually, naming and shaming all of them and displaying their instruments of torture out there as evidence. I let out a laugh. “Seems that she’s quite happy to be staying in the private wing,” a nurse says misinterpreting my laugh. My boss smiles and agrees with her. “Yes, she does. She is my senior editor, she must be treated well.” “I actually don’t mind being in the ward,” I say to my boss. “Honestly, I’d quite prefer it.” “Nonsense! You’re staying here,” he insists and moves out of the way as the nurses wheel me back into the room. This is not good. With no monetary concerns the doctor may now run all the tests I had convinced him I could not pay for. This may be a hospital but make no mistake about it; their primary goal is to make money. It’s a business like any other. That’s why my thoughts are now with Lorena Bobbit and our somewhat similar situations. If the doctor runs tests on me he will find there’s nothing wrong with me. I don’t have Oromandibular dystonia. Soon after that, he’ll tell the cops that this was no accident and that I deliberately bit Chris’ manhood off. Then off to jail I go. Thereafter a trial, where I have to argue something that makes sense to a judge so that he lets me walk. Like Lorena. If you’re curious how that turned out, she got away with it. She was found not guilty. They said she was temporarily insane when she cut off her husband’s penis. Imagine that. Perhaps I was crazy too. Remember all those out of body experiences I kept having? I was so disconnected from the events that night, I’m sure I could get a psychiatrist to testify that I was a beer short of a six pack. I felt like I was levitating to the ceiling for heaven’s sake! Remember that? That can’t be normal. The more I think about it, the more I’m convinced I’m a little nuts. There’s just one problem though. If you are found not guilty by reason of temporary insanity there’s a good chance that you can end up in a mental hospital. That’s what happened to Lorena. They sent her to a mental hospital for evaluation for 45 days and only released her after establishing that she was not a danger to herself or others. That’s the US. The mental facilities there are not as run down as ours, I would imagine. So even if I could get away with something similar, where would they send me? Mathare hospital? I honestly believe that 45 days in there would make me go mad, for real. Seeds of madness can be planted in anyone’s garden and you (reading this) wouldn’t survive a month in a mental hospital here either.