​National women's roll ball coach Martin Abunde is optimistic his side will reclaim the title at the fifth Roll Ball World Cup set for  November 15- 20 in Chennai, Tamil Nadu State in India. The 2015 women's World Roll Ball champions lost the title in Pune, India in 2017, placing third behind winners India and runners up Iran. In their debut year (2013), the Kenya outfit placed second. Abunde said his charges are in excellent shape compared to 2017 when the team was divided right in the middle but still managed a podium finish. The government remained non-committal on funding the team's training at the Safaricom Indoor Arena.  However, both the men and women's sides have been training at the Shauri Moyo Hall, Nairobi having settled Sh250 annual membership fee for every player to enable them to access the indoor facility. Though the facility is not exclusive to roll ball teams, Abunde said: "We had to find a way of using the hall with other teams and individuals. We have had ample time for the preps despite the poor facility. My team has gelled well, they have the physical power, have matured and we are ready to face any team in India." He cited Iran as a threat to the Kenya women's team, adding that the men's side under Caleb Akhumbi, will equally have to battle it out with  India. Men's team captain and utility player Joseph Alukhala indicated that despite the ups and downs, each player has been working to their skills and tact and this has made the team stronger together. "Competition in the Kenyan league has stiffened and players had to have an edge over others to make the cut," he said. The team of 24 players- 12 for each gender, two coaches, team manager, doctor, physiotherapist and ahead of the delegation are scheduled to leave Nairobi for Chennai on November 13. Meanwhile, Michelle Lott's of Kenyatta University her national team debut in the India outing as Winnie Nkatha (Hornets) and Emily Amino (Archibella) make their first appearance in the World stage. On the men's side, Gretsa University's Samuel Muthui and Decathlon Tigers' duo of Kephas Kamanda and Gideon Mutemi make their maiden appearance at the Worlds'.