President Uhuru Kenyatta has said Kenyan troops will remain in Somalia until al Shabaab militia are neutralised. The President spoke at the Kenya Military Academy in Lanet, Nakuru, on Thursday when he commissioned new cadet officers who have completed a rigorous three-year training programme. “In pursuance of this objective and that of the international community, our troops will continue being part of Amisom until such a time that this objective has been achieved,” the President said. Uhuru said that the country’s prosperity depends on how well it balances the crucial factors of peace, security, governance, sound economic policies and development programmes. He said that is why military officers are encouraged to observe personal courage as they protect the country despite adversities they might face. “Courage calls for self-confidence, moral ascendancy, self-sacrifice, honesty, fairness, initiative, decisiveness, and dignity," Uhuru added. He said the regional dimension of the training by the academy is informed by the fact that the threats to security posed by terrorist groups and related international crimes know no borders. “Whenever these groups are pursued, they quickly shift their operations either within the boundaries of nations or beyond," Uhuru said. He said Kenya has always made it a priority to boost regional security and that is one of the reasons it has been involved in stabilising countries affected by conflict. KDF crossed the border into Somalia in 2011 after al Shabaab militia threats in the country. The mission was declared to be complete in 2012 but the Kenyan troops were kept in Somalia under Amisom, which is the regional regional peacekeeping mission. The newly commissioned officers have graduated under the revamped Bachelor of Science in Military and Security Studies programme, a unique undergraduate degree offered by the Ministry of Defence in collaboration with Kenyatta University. The programme is designed to produce junior military leaders not just for the Kenya Defence Forces, but also allied countries. The programme is anchored on three pillars, namely; professional military training, academic training and character development. During the colorful commissioning ceremony, the Head of State awarded cadets who excelled in various fields during the course of their three-year training.