United States International University USIU-A Mashujaa coach Wilson Otieno wants his charges to utilize their chances and remain watertight defensively following 1-1 draw with Western Jaguars at the City Park Stadium yesterday. Otieno rued the wastefulness of his strikers after missing a handful of chances in a game they should have won by a bigger margin had the forwards been clinical. James Mwangi captained side failed to capitalize on the opponents' exhaustion having played on Saturday. The tactician wants a ruthless streak when the students confront league strugglers Strathmore University Scorpions on November 24  in the penultimate match before the ultimate fixture against Sailors six days later. He said: "It's two points lost rather than a point gained. We created clear-cut chances which we did not convert. We will go back to the drawing board and rectify the mistakes. We need to finish the season in a respectable place before we start preparations for the next season. We have to be electric in defending penalty corners because their first goal came from it." The goalkeeper did well to parry the shot and they scored from the rebound. Otherwise it was a determined show from the boys."Jaguars' Michael Malungu was relieved after ending their poor away record with four points. They hammered Strathmore 2-0 on Saturday as the Kakamega side left Nairobi with four points.He said: "The lads showed character and determination. It was important to end our poor away record and it gives us confidence heading into the next round of fixtures. We languished at the relegation zone in the better part of last season and finishing in third or fourth place will crown a perfect season for the team."Jaguars moved to fifth with 21 points-one point behind Police. Samson Ratia was yellow-carded for infringement on Jaguars player and Robinson Omutekete opened the scoring from the resulting short corner  poking home from close range in the 8th minute. The lead lasted only for 17 minutes as Brian Kipkorir equalised for the students with a second quarter 25th minute strike heading into the breather. Jaguars Ivan Luduali and Conrad Wafula wasted open chances as Timothy Barasa was guilty for the students with the goalkeeper only to beat as the fourth quarter began on attacking tone. The students pushed for the winner as they troubled Jaguars backline but could not find a breakthrough.