Police officers in Kisauni and Nyali subcounties Mombasa, have arrested 11 suspects following a gang attack that left 10 people injured on Sunday morning. Kisauni OCPD Julius Kiragu has confirmed that the suspects aged between 15-25 years old, were arrested in different areas but within Mombasa. He said police believe that the suspects are behind criminal activities in the area. “The information we have is that 11 suspects are members of a criminal gang named Wakali Kwanza which has been terrorising residents and they will be arraigned in court” he said. A gang of 10 members armed with machete and knives attacked residents in Kisauni and Nyali on Sunday morning and left them with deep cut on their bodies. Kiragu said that eight people among those attacked by the gang had received treatment and were discharged while two are admitted at Coast General Hospital but in stable condition. He said the police have information following the attacks and they believed that the suspects arrested have been involved in different criminal activities in Mombasa County. According to police, many crime activities happen in Mombasa during holiday and involves minors. “A lot of crime occurs in this area when schools are closed and those involved are minors. We believe the reason why they are involved in criminal activities is to look for money to buy Muguka” he said. Kiragu further said the residents in the affected areas are not willing to share the information to the security and it is a challenge, and a reason why it takes long to arrest the suspects. He said parents fear giving police information because they want to protect their children. “We will take the suspects to court and request for more days to enable us complete investigations. All the suspects involved in the attacked must face full force of the law,” he said. The suspects were arrested in their homes and some identified on the roadside by an informer but police have said they did not recover any weapon from the suspects.