The Senate is investigating five maize millers whose brands were withdrawn from the shelves for containing high levels of dangerous chemicals. Speaker Kenneth Lusaka on Wednesday directed the Agriculture committee to probe the millers and table a preliminary report in the House next week. “This is a serious matter that touches on the lives of people of Kenya. We cannot handle this issue in a casual manner,” Lusaka said. The directive followed a statement by Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula who demanded action on the five millers for ‘knowingly and willingly’ endangering the lives of Kenyans by selling flour with high levels of aflatoxin. The five maize millers and their brands are Dola Maize Meal by Kitui Flour Mills, Kifaru Maize Meal by Alpha Grain Limited, Starehe Maize Meal (Pan African Grain Millers), 210 Maize Meal (Kenblest Limited) and Jembe Maize Meal (Kensalrise Limited). Wetang'ula also demanded that the DCI and DPP should take action on state regulators who have "let millers flood the market with products adulterated with high levels of cancer-causing aflatoxins". In particular, he wanted the Kenya Bureau of Standards punished for failing to destroy contaminated maize as recommended by a senate ad hoc committee on Maize Crisis. It is charged to provide facilities for examination and testing commodities manufactured locally. “What did the Ministry of Agriculture and National Cereals and Produce Board do with huge stocks of maize in their stores that Kebs found to be contaminated and unfit for human consumption?” he asked. Last Saturday, Kebs warned the public against consuming five brands of maize flour. According to Kebs, the brands did not meet the standards during surveillance on various maize flour products in the market. The surveillance was done after multiple complaints from the public. As such, Kebs subsequently suspended licenses of five major maize millers and banned the sale of Dola, Kifaru, Starehe, Jembe and 210 brands. Last year, the Senate select committee on maize crisis condemned some of the maize stored in NCPB silos and recommended that it be destroyed to save Kenyans from possible consumption of harmful products. “Were the stocks destroyed as required by law or did the government simply maintain a conspiracy of silence hoping the situation would remedy itself?” he asked. Wetang'ula, who co-chaired the ad hoc committee with his Uasin Gishu counterpart Margaret Kamar, says the same contaminated maize is on the shelves for Kenyans to buy and consume. Edited by R.Wamochie