A new alliance is being cobbled together as former Raila Odinga's ODM party cuts links with old political partners. Raila, using the Kibra by-election as a launchpad to chart the 2022 path, indicated the win will impact the BBI politics and the next general election. The former Prime Minister who was leading a thanksgiving rally at Kibra's D.C grounds declared that the win is not only for the area but will shape the nation. "This Kibra election is an example to the whole country that Kenyans are yearning for change," Raila said. He added, "It has demonstrated that Kenyans are tired with politics of deceit and corruption. It has also shown that money cannot buy votes." In what shows the realignments in the country’s politics, the ODM leader paraded his newfound friends, some of whom were once his fierce critics. The new line-up mainly has members from Mt Kenya, Ukambani and Rift valley regions. The biggest catch in Raila’s new gameplan is Kiambu Deputy Governor James Nyoro who served as an advisor at Ruto’s office before quitting in 2015 to try his hand in Kiambu politics. The latest developments add to the DP's woes, especially his bid to win over President Uhuru's vote-rich Mt Kenya backyard. The team consists of members of the Kieleweke outfit led by nominated MP Maina Kamanda, Cherang’any  MP Joshua Kuttuny, former MPs Dennis Waweru (Dagoretti South) and Kilemi Mwiria (Tigania West). Kirinyaga Governor Ann Waiguru, Nairobi Speaker Beatrice Elachi, Wajir Woman Representative Fatuma Gedi and Gender Chief Administrative Secretary Rachael Shebesh have also warmed up to the opposition chief. Both defied the Jubilee party to campaign for ODM’s candidate Imran Okoth. Cherang’any MP Joshua Kutuny is emerging as Raila’s point man in Rift valley, an area perceived to be under the tight grip of Deputy President William Ruto. He too attended Raila’s Sunday rally. From Western –an area which has stood with Raila in the last two elections – the ODM leader has raided Musalia Mudavadi’s ANC, winning over nominated MP Godfrey Osotsi and Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala. The two cut ranks with their ANC Party leader who was drumming up support for Eliud Owalo. Raila, in a tactical move to check former Vice President Kalonzo Musyoka’s dominance of the Ukumbani region, has also brought all the three governors – Charity Ngilu, Kivutha Kibwana and Alfred Mutua- to his side. The trio has not been seeing eye to eye with the Wiper leader who supported Ford Kenya’s Khamisi Butichi in the just concluded Kibra polls. ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna questioned why both Kalonzo and Ford Kenya's Wetangula should still be treated as Nasa principals even after collectively managing 260 votes from the just concluded Kibra by-election. Waweru said that the yet to be announced alliance will form the next government. “This is the beginning of a journey to save Kenya from crooks. What has happened in Kibra by-elections mirrors what we will do in 2022 led by Raila Odinga and Uhuru Kenyatta,” Waweru told a mammoth crowd at Kibra’s D.C grounds yesterday. Kamanda who is widely believed to be the face of President Uhuru Kenyatta in Kibra campaigns said the new team will shape the country’s politics for the next five decades. “The Kibra results will shape Kenya’s politics for the next 50 years. Ruto, you said Kamanda is too old, I challenge you to come and face me in Nairobi. You will go home in 2022 and not Kamanda,” the nominated MP said amid applause from the jubilant crowd. Waiguru had also separately, during the last campaign rally, hinted that the 2022 politics was already being forged out of the Kibra race saying “this is the team that will form the next government”. At the same time, the ODM party laughed off apology demands by Ruto’s wing of Jubilee over the chaotic scenes witnessed on Thursday. ODM MPs Antony Oluoch (Mathare), Junet Mohamed (Suna East), Millie Odhiambo (Suba North), Babu Owino (Embakasi East), George Aladwa (Makadara) and Esther Passaris (Nairobi Woman Representative) insisted they have no apology to make over the Kibra fracas. They demanded that DP Ruto apologise over the shooting of an opposition supporter in Ganda ward in Kilifi, last month. DP Ruto and his allies have demanded an apology from Raila’s party over violence and ugly confrontations between alleged opposition supporters and some members of Jubilee. Junet said the Jubilee faction led by William Ruto was not interested in winning both Ganda and Kibra but to cause division along ethnic, regional and party lines using money. “In a bid to realise his wish, Ruto made sure Ganda by-elections not only turned violent and chaotic but also ended with the fatal shooting of one resident. “ Ruto’s person in that contest, Aisha Jumwa, has been charged in court for the fracas that led to the death. In the end, Ruto lost Ganda to ODM but his team left the people of Ganda in pain and tears,” Junet said. He added, “From Ganda, Ruto brought his trap with him to Kibra, once again promising to teach ODM a lesson. His tools of trade were the usual ones; voter bribery, fear-mongering, lies, anger and violence.” 