The government intends to regulate and inspect madrassas to monitor Islamic religious teachings. The plan is the latest effort to address longstanding concerns that some Islamic supplementary schools offer extremist teachings to children. The classes — madrasas and duksi— will be incorporated into the formal system by domiciling them in nursery schools for ease of monitoring. The plan is part of the government's National Sector Education Plan (NESP) 2018-2022.  NESP was launched by the Education Cabinet Secretary in mid October. During madrassa lessons, children are taught how to read the Quran. They also learn how to write, recite, and translate in Arabic. They also learn the sayings and practices of Islam to cultivate Muslim doctrines and way of life. Many madrassas are run by Muslim organisations and mosques. Leaders of the organisations vet and train their staff to carry out the teachings. Police have in the past reacted with force in crackdowns on clerics accused teaching youth extremist ideology. In December 2017, police raided an Islamic school in Likoni, Mombasa, arresting two teachers and taking 100 students into protective custody. Police said the children were being indoctrinated with extremist Islamist ideology. Muslim organisations accept regulation is needed to protect children's welfare but maintain concerns about radicalisation are misplaced. There are about 1,000 madrassas spread across the country but with a concentration in the northern and coastal regions. Under the plan, some activities could prompt state intervention. They include appointing unsuitable staff and a failure to ensure the safety of children. Also, any out-of-school setting providing intensive education will be required to register and be open to inspection. But Ahmed Yusuf of the Supreme Council of Kenya Muslims rejects the idea that extremist teaching happens in madrassas. About the critics, he says, “They are ignorant because in madrassas they teach us morals. The Quran teaches morals.” Islamic madrassas came into the country as early as 1600. They are documented as one of the earliest forms of formal education in the country brought by Arab traders at the Kenyan coastline where large numbers of Muslims are based. (edited by O. Owino)