The Bungoma County Referral Hospital is set to receive an oxygen unit that will help in nursing newborns with physical complications and respiratory problems. This was revealed during the inauguration of hospital boards that will govern health facilities. The event was presided over by Deputy Governor Charles Ngome at Mabanga ATC. Health executive Antony Walela said the medical equipment was acquired through a joint initiative of Caro Wangamati, the wife of Governor Wycliffe Wangamati, and partners. He said the initiative will be a major remedy to the problems the facility has faced in specialised care. "We experience a big challenge while dealing with difficult cases such as anaemia and ICU, hence the additional oxygen plant will be a relief for us," Ngome said. The plant will be in place in the next few months as plans are in the final stages. Currently, the hospital has to purchase oxygen from commercial suppliers, which was costly to the taxpayers and installing the same will reduce the cost incurred. "So critical is oxygen in emergency care that without it, pregnant women, newborns and children under the age of five risk death if the gas is not available in hospitals," Walela said. Ngome called on all medical superintendents and board chairpersons to serve residents without discrimination. "We are inaugurating these boards to enhance efficiency in our facilities for us to achieve proper healthcare for our people," he said. He urged them to go an extra mile and extend their supervision to all facilities that refer patients. "You should take charge of all the dispensaries and health centres in your subcounties, instead of being stagnant in your offices and leaving many patients who can't access referral hospitals to lose lives in devastating conditions." Walela also used the chance to caution that the boards must be transparent in their work and shun corruption at all costs. "I would like to alert you that the Department of Health has no room for corrupt people. Therefore, take note on how you do things with our financial systems, else the EACC will just come for you and we shall not compromise." (Edited by F'Orieny)