Shujaa recorded two wins on the first day of the Africa Cup-cum-Olympics Sevens qualifiers in Johannesburg yesterday. Kenya made light work of minnows Ivory Coast, winning 36-7 before thrashing Senegal 50-0 in their second match. In the match against Senegal, Johnstone Olindi opened the scoring and converted his own try for a 7-0 lead. Vincent Onyala then crossed the whitewash with a well-taken try. Onyala was on the mark seconds later with Olindi adding the extras for a 19-0 lead. Olindi grabbed his brace as Kenya dominated possession and territory with vice-captain Jeff Oluoch getting his name on the score sheet for a 33-0 lead at the interval. On resumption, Onyala completed his hat-trick with further tries from Jacob Ojee and Billy Odhiambo rounding off the scoring. Kenya were due to play Namibia last evening and will face neighbours Uganda today morning. Meanwhile, Kenya Cup returnees Western Bulls will not be under pressure when they face bottom of the table Kenya Harlequins in their third game of the season, according to assistant coach Obi Solo. Solo hopes that the team will record their first win of the season having lost 48-11 against champions Kenya Commercial Bank and 27-21 against Menengai Oilers at the Bull Ring in Kakamega County. “There was a massive improvement in the second game. It was a closely contested game but luck was not on our side. It’s a game we would have won,” he added. He added: “We hope our plan will work against Harlequins. We can't underrate Quins because they are also unbeaten.  A first win is what we are seriously looking for. The gap between us and regular Kenya Cup teams is not as wide as such.” Against Harlequins, Echulusi will be without Eliab Barasa, Eugene Asava, Elvis Wekesa and Dennis Opiyo, who were injured during the Oilers game. Lucky Opiyo and Brian Okute will also miss the encounter because they have personal commitments. “It is a blow to us because two other players are out due to personal commitments but we have replacements who are equal to the task,” added Solo a former Bulls player. Bulls are 10th on the log with only one point and Solo is confident that he will meet his target of remaining in Kenya Cup. Bulls and Oilers returned to Kenya Cup after several seasons in the cold —increasing the number of teams in the top tier league from outside Nairobi to five. Other teams are Menengai Oilers Nakuru RFC and Kabras.