Deputy President William Ruto has hit back at MPs who accused him of undermining President Uhuru Kenyatta and demanded his resignation. Over 20 MPs on Wednesday said the DP has been attacking government officials and working round the clock to scuttle Uhuru's handshake deal with ODM leader Raila Odinga and undermine the yet-to-be-released Building Bridges Initiative report. The lawmakers, drawn from Jubilee, ODM, Ford Kenya, Wiper and Kanu — some of whom have been DP's close allies — accused him of ‘fighting’ the government from within and dared him to quit. In a tweet on Thursday, The DP has said Raila is the real saboteur, peoples conman who uses deceit to destroy parties including Jubilee party. He also accused the AU envoy of instigating violence during elections adding that he never concedes defeat. The DP was responding to the front-page headline of The Standard which ran the story 'Handshake MPs ask Ruto to quit'. "Waheshimiwa, the real SABOTEUR is your master the people's conman who uses deceit to divide/destroy parties even Uhuru's Jubilee," read part of his tweet. The MPs were reacting to attacks on Interior CS Fred Matiang'i, his PS Karanja Kibicho and Police IG Hillary Mutyiambai by Tangatanga MPs on Tuesday. The Tangatanga legislators had claimed that the three government officials planned the fracas witnessed in parts of Kibra during last week’s by-election. The DP has in the past few days attacked Raila and his ODM team, accusing them of sponsoring 'chaos' to not only win the election but also undermine the handshake. “Tinga (Raila) and his party’s trail of political conmanship and deceit from Kanu through Cord to Nasa, and now heading to Jubilee and litany of violence from '82 coup to Kibra cannot be hidden behind the BBI. As a minimum, he must publicly renounce violence as a political tool and undertake to accept defeat,” he said on Twitter on Wednesday. But the Jubilee, ODM, Ford Kenya, Wiper and Kanu MPs said the DP's attack on government officials amounts to undermining the President — the appointing authority. Those present during the press conference at Parliament Buildings included Jimmy Angwenyi (Kitut Chache North), Gathoni Wamuchomba (Kiambu woman rep), Ben Momanyi (Borabu), Fatuma Gedi (Wajir woman rep), Peter Mwathi (Limuru), Mishi Mboko (Likoni) and Raphael Wanjala (Budalang'i). Others were Ken Chonga (Kilifi South), Jerusha Momanyi (Nyamira woman rep), Abdikarim Osman (Fafi) and Samuel Arama (Nakuru Town).