Champions Gor Mahia opened up a six-point lead at the top of the Kenyan Premier League table after drowning Bandari 2-0 at the Mbaraki Stadium yesterday. Gor have in the recent past made fruitless trips away to the coast but the record league champions capitalised on their opponents' recent poor form. Having found the back of the net against Kakamega Homeboyz last week on Thursday, Ghanaian import Francis Afriyie picked up from where he left as he doubled the scores in the second half after Samuel Onyango had broken the deadlock in the first half. The defeat piles more pressure on coach Bernard Mwalala who has savoured victory twice this season and his side has gathered a paltry nine points from as many matches. Meanwhile,  AFC Leopards claimed a hard-fought  1-0 win against a resurgent Kisumu All-Stars at the Kenyatta Stadium in Machakos. Whyvonne Isuza struck the lone goal in the 18th minute to snap Ingwe's three-match winless streak. Earlier at the same venue, in-form Timothy Otieno struck his seventh goal of the season to inspire Tusker to a 1-0 win over Posta Rangers. Otieno found the back of the net in the 81st minute to guide the Brewers to their fifth win of the season, leaving coach Robert Matano wanting more. "It was important to get back to our winning ways after two consecutive draws. We fought hard and I am glad our relentless pressure paid off at last. We have to be consistent in keeping a winning rhythm from now. I am happy that Timothy is using his experience well in front of goal," said Matano. Otieno, on the other hand, was coy on fighting for the top scorer's gong but believes his form can steer him towards a return to the national team. "It's too early to think of the Golden boot as I am concentrating on helping the team get positive results. I have been working hard thus my recent form and I still feel that there is light at the end of the tunnel as far as the national team is concerned," he said. At the Narok Stadium, a well-drilled Sofapaka rallied from a goal down to beat hard fighting Zoo Kericho 2-1. The visitors took the lead as early as the second minute through Kefa Ondati after a goalkeeping error from the Batoto Ba Mungu side. Throughout the first half, the two teams squandered numerous scoring chances that came their way. On resumption, a rejuvenated Sofapaka piled more on their opponents, which paid off in the 55th minute through a thunderous header from Sammy Imbuye. In the 80th minute, Kepha Aswani sealed the fate of the Kericho-based Zoo after connecting with a cross from Imbuye to head home. Mathare United returned to winning ways after last week's 1-0 loss to Sofapaka, edging struggling Chemelil Sugar 4-1 at the Muhoroni Stadium. Chrispinus Oduor, James Kinyajui, Daniel Otieno and Clifford Alwanga were all on target for the Slum Boys. Ulinzi Stars settled for a one-all draw against Nzoia Sugar at the Afraha Stadium.