Fena Gitu’s “Unleashed” Album Launch Fena will be celebrating 10 years in the music industry in style and you better not miss it. She launches her highly anticipated sophomore album titled "Unleashed" this Saturday, November 23 at the Junction Mall, Silo Parking Rooftop. Her performance will be backed by The Dynamiques Band and hosted by MC Kwambox. The launch will also feature performances from Kagwe Mungai, Mayonde, Elani and many more surprise acts. On the decks will be DJ Jo Kisila. The show opens at 6pm till midnight. 7 Days in November exhibit The Love Studio will be hosting its annual ‘7 Days In November’ exhibition which kicks off on Saturday, November 23 till Saturday, November 30. The Nairobi founded design, art and craft studio, promotes dialogue, skill learning and business development in art through showcase, workshops and market centered experiences. The theme for this edition is “Recycle & Reprogramme” which is rooted in the notion that everything that exists is reborn through time. The workshops will be focused on an array of crafts including plastic printing and woodwork: conception to actualization amongst many others. Aduma present Prince Kaybee This November, Aduma is celebrating one year on the events scene and they are certain to bring the house down this time round. For all the AfroHouse lovers get ready for an unforgettable night, with the legendary Prince Kaybee set to take the stage this Saturday, November 23 at Captain’s Terrace, Nairobi. The acclaimed South African producer and DJ has had quite the musical year with the release of his two projects “Re Mmino” and the “Crossover Music” EP that gave bangers such as Gugulethu and Monasi. The show will also feature performances from Dj Raoul, Dj Kace, Kori-K, One Downand Vidza. You cannot miss this show. It kicks off from 3 pm till late. Fusion Fusion returns with its second installation this weekend. Come through and dance the night away this Saturday, November 23 at Crooked Q’s Rooftop from 9 pm to 6 am. Featuring some of Nairobi's favorite house DJs including Liam Brunner, Max Melesi, Xan Woods, Zipporah and Chucky, the edition is set to be a house lover's haven.