Taxpayers will part with Sh420 million annually as pension for lawmakers who served between 1984 and 2001 if MPs approve a bill by Minority Leader John Mbadi at the plenary. Should the bill become law, each of the 375 former members will get Sh100,000 a month as pension. Members of the Finance committee have already voted to support the bill. Mbadi, who is the Suba South MP, seeks through the amendment of section 8 of the Parliamentary Pensions Act, the inclusion of the former MPs who currently earn between Sh2,000 and Sh8,000 in pension. The Finance committee chaired by Joseph Limo (Kipkelion East) was unanimous that the payment is backdated to July 2010 "to improve the living standards of former MPs". Having recommended the backdating of the pensions payout, it therefore means the government would spend about Sh1.76 billion (factoring 160 members) in the first year of implementing the bill. In its submissions to the committee, the Parliamentary budget office, said the government - factoring 160 MPs, would be paying Sh15 million per month, bringing the average annual pay to Sh180 million. “This is to substantively improve the living standards of the former MPs. This will enable them to earn respect from the public as former leaders and also accord them some dignity,” Limo’s committee said. Members of the committee have asked for cost analysis on the impact of including MPs who served for one term between 1984 and 2017 –  the group being ineligible for pension under the Act. The former MPs, through their association FOPAK informed the committee that they settled on the Sh100,000 since it was the figure that the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association had recommended in 2009. The development is likely to settle a long-standing debate on why Parliament has been dilly-dallying on the request to pay the pension to former MPs. During a recent open day at Parliament, where a number of former MPs were invited, Speaker Justin Muturi assured the lot that the House would do all it can to pass the bill. “We are keen on ensuring that former members live a quality life,” the speaker said, adding that Parliament is working on more ways of engaging the former MPs. Some of the former lawmakers have been bidding for Sh20 million retirement homes and Sh8 million for car once they leave office. Others sought to have the pension pegged at Sh300,000 amid concerns of the high cost of living but MPs said the proposal was outside the scope and would have a bigger financial implication. The Akiwumi Tribunal in 2009 recommended an enhanced living pension for MPs who had served a single term as well as parliamentary employees.