Kenya Hockey Union Premier League clubs have welcomed the federations decision to move the transfer window to the end of the season. The stakeholders observe that will give clubs adequate time to prepare for the season ahead and in turn avoid a clash that was witnessed last season when the transfer period and the league were on at the same time. Clubs will now have a chance to boost their squads between  December 23 and January 19. This season's Premier League ends on December 1 while the Super and National tiers end on December 21. The new season is set to kick off in mid-February. Last season's player transfers started on November 1 and ended on December 15, while the league ended on December 9. Police coach Patrick Mugambi hailed the decision, observing that it will favour his intended squad overhaul. He said: “It is a wise decision by the union. We were victims last season when clubs courted our players while the league was on. It really destabilised us. We have already identified the players and positions we need to strengthen.” Wazalendo's Francis Kimanzi agreed: “Thumbs up to KHU for the timely move. Clubs will be able to do their businesses on time and on to the new season with ease.” However, the period has been reduced from 45 days to 28 to allow enough time for arbitration in case of disputes, according to KHU secretary general Wycliffe Ongori. He also promised that the Union is working to be more transparent in the way they do their business going forward. He said: “We just want to be organised and clear on how we do things next season. We intend to commence the league in mid-February and therefore we will adjudicate upon matters related to transfers as soon as we receive them to allow teams focus on the start of the new season.” For a club to contract a player during the transfer period, they will have to submit a signed transfer request form accompanied by an unconditional release letter from the previous club. A requisite payment for processing of the said transfer and a written justification for special transfer if any. Submission of relevant registration forms, duly filled, dated and signed by each player and designated club official will form part of the player and club registration for next season.