A delegation of principal secretaries will on Tuesday morning tour the Kisumu Port to jumpstart operations ahead of its launch. The team of 14 PSs led by Infrastructure's Paul Maringa will be on an inspection tour to ascertain whether the facility is fit for use. This will pave way for the official opening, whose date will be pegged on President Uhuru Kenyatta’s work schedule. Maringa will be accompanied by Esther Koimett (Transport), Public Works’ Gordon Kihalangwa, Peter Kaberia (Sports), and Ibrahim Mohamed (Defence). Also expected in the entourage is Charles Hinga (Housing), Betty Maina (Environment), Francis Owino (Industrialisation), Julius Korir (Infrastructure), Joe Okudo (Tourism), Joseph Njoroge (Energy), John Omenge (Mining), Hamadi Boga (Agriculture) and Nicholas Muraguri (Lands). The team will be on the ground to inspect works on the cargo handling section, the shipping yards, roads linking the town to the port and concreting of the ports yard. Kenya Ports Authority had declared the port ready for use citing completion of cargo handling equipment, dry dock rehabilitation and refurbishment of MV Uhuru cargo ship. The agency has installed forklift trucks, mobile cranes and tractor-trailers, signalling the facility’s readiness. “We will be there to check if the systems are working well so that the port can be launched and put to use by transporters,” Maringa, who is the chair of Project Implementation sub-committee of the Cabinet, told the Star on Monday. He said part of the inspection will focus on the cargo handling capacity and whether there is a sufficient supply of energy to drive operations. The Kisumu Port was due to be launched in August but the exercise was pushed to a later date. Regional presidents Yoweri Museveni (Uganda), Tanzania’s Pombe Magufuli and DRC’s Felix Tshisekedi were to attend the unveiling of what has been deemed the ‘handshake gift’ to Nyanza. The port is the biggest project initiated by the government since Uhuru and ODM leader Raila Odinga reached a truce last year to end months of post-poll tension. Nyanza Development Steering Committee chairman James Nyikal welcomed the delegation saying it would show signs of progress made in positioning the regions’ development needs. He said the committee has put forth what it seeks the government to roll out for the benefit of the millions that inhabit the lake region. “We are still having conversations on the establishment of the Kisumu Coast Guard facility and the tarmacking of the Mamboleo- Muhoroni Road,” Nyikal said. Other projects lined up include the development of the Kisumu Special Economic Zone (SEZ), irrigation works at Koru-Soin and the railway line linking Kisumu to Nakuru. “The trip by the government technocrats is a good idea as it would help in the coordination of all facets of development to the benefit of Kisumu,” the Seme MP said. The port’s revival is based on a Vision 2030 masterplan which sought to make it vibrant years after it ran into a state of disrepair. The initial plan had concepts including linkages to the Kisumu International Airport and the construction of a 2,000 capacity hotel, shopping arcades, malls, restaurants, a business park and an ultra-modern railway station. At the backdrop of the activities is a hue and cry by traders lamenting their eviction from the Kenya Railways land to pave way for the works. Local leaders among them Senator Fred Outa asked the locals to embrace the project as its returns would be way better. Edited by R.Wamochie