Four riot police captured on tape brutalising a JKUAT protester were interdicted on Tuesday as public outrage over police impunity mounted. The day started when investigations were launched by the Internal Affairs Unit of the National Police Service and by the Independent Policing Oversight Authority (Ipoa). Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i ordered the four be arrested within 24 hours. Police IG Hillary Mutyambai, who swiftly interdicted the police officers, described their conduct on Monday as "despicable". He did not identify the officers, saying further action will be taken once the Internal Affairs Unit completes its investigation. Public wrath was increasing. There were calls by police reform activists for a Special UN Rapporteur to be allowed into the country to investigate brutality and extrajudicial actions. The four riot police were captured on a widely watched video beating  JKAT students who were on a rampage in Juja to protest against a crime wave. One girl was shoved to the ground and stomped. In the video, a man in his early- to mid-twenties and wearing dreadlocks is surrounded by four police officers. Two carried guns, the other two batons. They force the unarmed man to the ground, beating and kicking him. The clip brought to mind similar scenes during the 2017 electoral period when opposition protesters would be met with violence by police. The university students were protesting against the upsurge in crime and violence around the university. JKUAT was closed indefinitely. Wilfred Olal, who is the convener of the Social Justice Working Group, told the Star that his organisation and the Police Reform Working Group had twice contacted the office of the UN Special Rapporteur and called for an investigation into police excesses. They want the Special Rapporteur on Summary or Arbitrary Executions to be allowed into the country to investigate the conduct of the police, especially in informal settlements. Olal said that on the two occasions they reached out, the Office of the Special Rapporteur expressed willingness to visit. "The government has not been responsive," Olal said "We can only conclude that the government does not want him to come and investigate." Special Rapporteurs are independent, unpaid experts appointed by the UN Human Rights Council to monitor and publicly report on human rights in specific countries and on human rights violations worldwide. They can request country visits but they must be invited by governments. Many countries do not want UN Special Rapporteurs to investigate, considering their presence to be violations of state sovereignty. "Police violence is reaching a crisis level in slums. They are a law unto themselves, meting out brutality, disappearances and killing brazenly," Olal claimed. "That is why we prefer the rapporteur. Police routinely say only a few rogue officers are culpable; the vast majority are professionals. Olal said activists and the public want police to respect the right to protest, protected under  Article 37 of the Constitution. They also want accountable policing. "The issues raised by the JKUAT students [about crime and insecurity] were very pertinent and they affect their lives directly," Olal said. Amnesty International demanded that the officers involved in violently quelling the demonstration be held individually responsible to stem "hooliganism" in the Police Service. The human rights lobby welcomed CS Matiang'i's order for the arrest of the four riot police within 24 hours. "Violent policing during public demonstrations must stop. It is impossible for the republic to distinguish hooligans both in and out of the National Police Service, AI's Kenya executive director Houghton Irungu said. "Officers who break the Code of Service must be held individually guilty, sanctioned and made to compensate victims," he said. Free To Protest Coalition demanded that in addition to taking disciplinary action against the four officers, the state should also provide urgent medical attention to victims of brutality. It said there is a sustained trend to criminalise protests in Kenya. Since January, more than 100 people have been arrested because of protesting, it said. (Edited by V. Graham) 