The Directorate of Criminal Investigations is investigating top managers at the Kenya Power Company over the Sh35.28 million token scandal. In its quarterly report tabled in the House on Thursday, the Senate Energy committee is probing the issue with a view to prosecuting officers found culpable. The Nyeri Senator Ephraim Maina-led committee said the tokens were irregularly generated and issued to customers between January 2018 and February 2019. The committee said the tokens were sent to customers through unofficial channels and personal lines. One such number had transacted close to Sh8 million. In July, Kenya Power acting MD Jared Othieno told the committee that the fraudulent scheme was coordinated by a team of 23 individuals working at the firm. “The 23 staff involved have already faced disciplinary action as per the company’s procedures and regulations,” Othieno had said. He revealed that more than 2,500 Kenyans bought tokens worth Sh35,280,567 over that period. The company had defended itself saying the inflated bills were a result of migration to an Integrated Customer Management System to replace the Integrated Customer System that had been in place since 1997. Kenya Power had argued that inflation of bills was necessitated because it did not want to raise power charges during an election year, so it had to recover the money that had caused a huge financial gap in its 2017 financial statements. “The committee is scheduled to hold to hold a follow-up meeting with the Ministry of Energy and Kenya Power to interrogate the matter further,” the committee report reads. The panel noted, however, that the power distributor has committed to enhancing customer experience and improving the existing controls to prevent such occurrences in future. On July 18, Vihiga Senator George Khaniri sought a statement from the committee concerning the billing at the national power utility company. Among the demands by Khaniri was for the power utility to itemise and give justification for the various cause elements billed or levied to prepaid electricity consumers. He also wanted the power distribution company to state the action taken against the employees who orchestrated the fraud. “State the measures that Kenya Power is putting in place to strengthen their internal checks and accounting system, and explain what recourse the affected customers have in their quest to recover funds lost in the fraud,” he said in July. Edited by R.Wamochie