The death of a one-year-old-boy run over by his niece in a church compound caused an ugly scene in a Kiambu court on Thursday when family members hurled insults at each other. Orderlies had to escort them outside where the fighting continued and a crowd gathered. But not before Lilian Nduta was arraigned before senior principal magistrate Stella Atambo on charges of causing death by dangerous driving. She pleaded not guilty. Nduta was remanded until December 6 when a bond ruling will be made. Her police cash bail of Sh20,000 was cancelled. One side said the accused was delaying the court case and tried without success to delete the CCTV footage showing the child injured when she reversed her vehicle. They alleged the accused threatened the dead child's mother and immediate family. The accused's lawyer said they were all one family the child's immediate family wanted an enormous sum to settle out of court, money the accused could not afford. The charge sheet said the accident occurred on November 3 at the ACK church along Ruaka, Banana Road in Kiambu. The driver of a Toyota Vanguard, KCQ 343 P, drove dangerously and hit Tash Wanjiru Kariuki, aged 13 months, it said. Trouble started when the charges were being read and the child's immediate family started arguing about the child's age. The magistrate called for silence and said the matter would be sorted out later. The defence counsel sought lenient bail terms as the accused is a single mother of two children aged two and four years and is the sole breadwinner. Prosecutor Donnex Ongira opposed bail, saying the investigating officer had informed him that she had attempted to interfere with the evidence and intended to flee the country. The counsel for the victim's family opposed bail and said the accused had intentionally delayed the matter. As a result, he said, the family had to seek help from police headquarters at Vigilance House where they complained that the accused had not been charged. The counsel further claimed that the accused had threatened the child's mother and family. He said she contacted the pastor of the church where the accident happened and sought unsuccessfully to get CCTV footage deleted. However the defence counsel said the accused was the niece to the deceased, they were one family and the family had first sought to settle out of court, thus causing a delay. He said the family demanded so much money from the accused, however, and she could not afford it. Therefore, she decided the matter should go forward in court. The defence counsel said the accused had no intention of fleeing he country, as she is a businesswoman in Ruaka. He said she has not travelled outside the country for more than two years and would deposit her passport with the court. Insults rained down on both sides. the magistrate directed orderlies to feud outside the court.rt. ordered the court orderlies to escort them out of court. Outside they continued to shout and fight, attracting a crowd. (Edited by V. Graham)