A university lecturer who kept her dead son in her house for allegedly more than two weeks is not fit to be charged. Hannah Inyama was arrested last month after the body of her 13-year-old son was found wrapped in a blanket in her house on Nairobi’s South B estate. An investigating officer told Makadara chief magistrate Heston Nyaga that Inyama is not mentally stable to stand trial over the death of her son, Emmanuel. According to a psychiatric report, which the officer cited, the University of Nairobi don is not in her right state of mind and was put on medication for a month. “The suspect has been put on medication, which will be on a daily basis and is required to appear in hospital on November 29 to check her progress,” the investigator said. He added that Inyama will undergo medication until she gets well. The magistrate released Inyama to her parents, who were in court, and ordered her to report to the police every Friday. He also directed the matter to be mentioned on December 3 for further directions. Inyama had been detained by the police for 10 days to allow them to finish investigations. The suspect allegedly stayed with the body for at least two weeks in Kifaru Apartments. She had invited church members to her home to sing and praise God. She is a specialist in post-resuscitation care of the critically ill. This involves optimising ventilation and circulation and preserving organ and tissue function. Last month, police boss Philip Ndolo told The Star that they were tipped off by neighbours about a foul smell emanating from the house. They broke in and found Emmanuel's body wrapped in a blanket in the sitting room. The mother told them the boy had fallen and died in the sixth-floor apartment. "She said she did not take him to a hospital because she does not believe in hospitals," Ndolo said. "My officers tried knocking but nobody opened the door. After five minutes, they broke in. The woman by that time was hiding in the kitchen. It is like she heard us breaking in and rushed to hide." Ndolo said the boy was studying in a private school where he was to sit his KCPE exam. (Edited by F'Orieny)