Nairobi county assembly Majority Leader Abdi Guyo has lost his seat in changes announced by Jubilee. In a letter addressed to Speaker Beatrice Elachi on Tuesday, Jubilee Party secretary general Raphel Tuju said the changes were necessary for clarity. Charles Thuo takes over the Majority Leader seat and will be deputised by Millicent Mugadi. Majority Whip will now be June Ndegwa and will be deputised by Hassan Abdikadir. South B MCA Waithera Chege, Riruta's James Kiriba and Ngara's Chege Mwaura have lost their seats. "In order to bring clarity on the issue of leadership in the house; we have decided to respect the list as brought to you by Hon June Ndegwa," reads the letter. Tuju further said the party had received letters from both conflicting parties and  set a date to sort out the squabbles. "Since the party has an internal dispute resolution mechanism in our Constitution, we will be invoking that and we expect that the disputing parties will respect that process and may not take matters into their own hands," Tuju said. Jubilee MCAs have been embroiled in a fight with one camp supporting Elachi and another opposed to her. Elachi made a return to City Hall on October 9 amid chaos from rival camps. The Speaker was brought back to the assembly by a number of city MCAs from the minority side. Tear gas canisters were thrown around and furniture was destroyed in the melee. A group of MCAs said Elachi was being forced on them. Before October 10, Elachi was last seen in the office last year in September when  MCAs attempted to forcibly remove her from the office. A group of MCAs launched a new impeachment bid against Elachi on October 28 and on October 29, there was drama at the assembly as rival city MCAs clashed over the motion. Chaos broke shortly after MCAs supporting the impeachment motion were disrupted by their counterparts while addressing the media. At some point, stones and water bottles were hurled at a section of the Jubilee MCAs forcing them to cut short their press conference. The pro-Elachi MCAs were chanting, "Elachi must be respected". Earlier on MCAs from both ODM and Jubilee supporting Elachi firmly opposed any impeachment motion of the speaker. On Monday, the MCAs were back at it again. Chaos, teargas once again rocked the Nairobi county assembly as police battled MCAs allied to Elachi. A section of MCAs had attempted to forcibly eject Guyo from his office, following changes announced by Elachi last week. Last Thursday, Elachi said in a letter to the party, Jubilee MCAs had in a meeting held in Mombasa resolved to change the leadership in the assembly. The letter indicated that changes were sought by Governor Mike Sonko to ensure good working relations with the assembly. The proposed changes were opposed as unconstitutional by some MCAs, which culminated in the fracas on Monday.