Projects worth more than Sh1.5 billion have stalled in Uasin Gishu county after a blacklisted contractor was awarded construction tenders but deserted the sites. Most projects in the health sector, financed by both the national governments and county government, which awarded contracts more than three years ago. The Ziwa Level 5 Hospital project, which was to cost Sh800 million, is among the major stalled projects, along with the Moiben Subcounty hospital, which was to cost  Sh100 million, and several other health centres. The stalled projects have alarmed leaders who want the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission to investigate how the contractor who had been blacklisted by the government was awarded the contracts. Details of the blacklisting were not immediately available. County Woman Representative Gladys Shollei wants the anti-graft agency to ensure that the contractor who had been paid much of the money for the projects is punished. “The notorious contractor was paid millions of shillings of public money, yet he abandoned the projects to improve healthcare, the sector hardest hit," Shollei said. Governor Jackson Mandago has written to the national government over the stalled projects. “I have talked to the governor and we are following up to ensure the contractor is brought to book and the projects are completed," Shollei told journalists in Eldoret. She said the same contractor was still demanding payments from the county and national government despite abandoning work. “The county is dotted with several abandoned projects amounting to millions of shillings after a contractor who awarded the tender to undertake the construction works left the sites over six years ago,” Shollei said. Shollei is also the chairperson of the Committee on Delegated Legislation in the National Assembly. She accused the contractor of violating his contractual obligations with the Uasin Gishu county and the national government. “The contractor is still pushing the county for payment of millions of taxpayer’s money for hospital projects that have stalled at the foundation level,"  she said. At the same time, Mandago visited a site for the ongoing construction of the two-storey, 70-bed Eldoret West Maternity Hospital. It is fully funded by the county. Upon completion, the hospital will have 70 mothers in both inpatient and outpatient maternal care. The county is also building a 40-bed Kapteldon Maternity unit in Kapseret. "I am satisfied with the progress of work on the maternity hospitals that will greatly improve services," Mandago said. (Edited by V. Graham) 