Nairobi is among 20 counties recognised for proper utilisation of donor funds from Denmark. Kenya received Sh2.2 billion from the Danish International Development Agency (Danida) to support health programmes. In a letter to the Council of Governors October 23, Danida said it had received satisfactory audit reports on 20 counties. As a result, they are to receive their share of funds for the current financial year. The counties are Nairobi,Elgeyo Marakwet, Embu, Isiolo, Kajiado, Kakamega, Kiambu, Kirinyaga, Kisumu and Kwale. Also Laikipia, Lamu, Makueni, Nakuru, Nyandarua, Nyeri, Samburu, Tana River, Tharak Nithi and Usain Gishu. "Danida has provided budget funds through the Ifmis (Integrated Financial Management Information System) to all gazetted Level 2 and 3 health facilities in for operations and maintenance since 2014. This is of considerable value to the counties and health facilities" reads the letter. Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko said he welcomes more donor funds and will continue being vigilant and demanding accountability not only for donor funds but also for public funds. “In our own departments, we have raised the bar on matters involving public funds. I thank the embassy for appreciating the good work county governments are doing. Those that have been caught on the wrong side should be held accountable,” Sonko said. The letter by deputy head of mission at the Danish Embassy, Henrik Larsen, says audit reports show 15 counties did not spend Danida funds; they remain in county accounts have not be disbursed to health facilities. Auditors EY (Ernst & Young) identified the 15 counties as Bomet, Bungoma, Busia, Homa Bay, Kericho, Kilifi, Kitui, Meru, Migori, Nandi, Narok, Nyamira, Siaya Trans Nzoia and Kisii. However, Machakos county was flagged for Sh2.5 million unaccounted for and is being investigated, the letter from the Royal Danish Embassy said. "We shall share more information on this when we have it available to us," Larsen said. The audit firm said 11 counties' audit reports are unavailable and it was unable to complete its report due to late and insufficient information provided by the counties. They are Baringo, Garissa, Mandera, Marsabit, Mombasa, Murang'a, Taita Taaveta, Turkana, Vihiga, Wajir and West Pokot. To date, Danida has received draft audit reports for 2017-2018 for 35 of the 47 counties. The 12 remaining counties have been urged to urgently follow up to ensure they can continue to receive Danida funds for 2019-2020 and beyond. "We require the counties to either fully disburse the funds to the health facilities or return the funds to the Royal Danish Embassy by November 8, 2019," reads the letter. If funds are not returned, counties will not be eligible for more funding. Recently, the Danish Embassy transferred Sh468.8 million to the Treasury for the first half of 2019-2020; transfer to the counties is pending. However, transfers are conditional upon proper utilisation of funds for previous financial years. Danida urged counties that have not submitted their audit reports to swiftly complete them. The current Danida programme ends in December 2020. (Edited by V. Graham)