Central regional and county security chiefs, JKUAT administration and university student leaders have resolved to rid Juja of crime and drugs. More police officers will be deployed to the area and patrols increased. The decision was made on Wednesday during a meeting attended by Central regional commissioner Wilfred Nyagwanga, Central region police commander Patrick Lumumba, Kiambu county security chiefs, JKUAT vice chancellor Prof Victoria Ngumi, Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria and JKUSA president Titus Osoro. On Monday, Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology students went on rampage to protest against rising insecurity in the area. The learners said they have been living at the mercy of ruthless criminals who rob them of their valuables, including phones and laptops. Some students have been severely stabbed by attackers. Following the riot, the institution was closed indefinitely. Four officers have also been interdicted for brutalising JKUAT protesters. After the Wednesday meeting, Kuria said, “This university is a very important institution, and we cannot sit and watch it go to ruins because of criminals and drug peddlers. We have agreed that a major security operation will be mounted especially in hotspot areas including Gachororo with immediate effect.” Nyagwanga said more police officers will be deployed in the area. They will also increase patrols on estates where students reside. “We will deal with the perpetrators squarely. We plan to deploy more officers who will be on patrol within the area. We will flush out all criminals even in their hiding dens,” he said. Nyagwanga also urged students to report crime incidences. Reporting has been made easier using the SMS service 988, he said. “This is an anonymous service that will be monitored in real-time by Security chiefs and the university administration and it's free of charge,” he said. Kuria said they also resolved that all landlords within Juja who house JKUAT students must get accreditation from the university. He said failure to get approval would land the landlords in trouble.  The accreditation will help the university administration to monitor students’ security. Kuria said out of the 35,000 students at the university, 25,000 live outside the institution. “All stakeholders must cooperate. We all know that JKUAT is the heart of Juja town and key to the region’s economy. We must all ensure that all elements jeopardising its stability are dealt with,” he said. Other measures they plan to undertake include the installation of security lights in all areas where students reside. Prof Ngumi said the university Senate will meet and review the situation to re-open the institution. “We need our students back and therefore the University Senate will be meeting very soon so that the University can be re-opened,” she said. 