Traders, sacco members, micro-finance institutions and banks have been urged to be cautious when offering to guarantee loans due to the growing number of defaulters. According to lending laws, a guarantor is responsible for any loan recovery in case the borrower defaults. Ng’arisha Sacco chairman Benedict Wekesa Simiyu admitted the institution had encountered tremendous challenges relating to guarantors, many of them supporting people to get loans without knowing who they are. In the end, he said, the anonymous clients default on payment. Simiyu spoke on Tuesday during a members' education and sensitisation seminar on guaranteeing wisely and proper utilisation of loans pursuant to the Societies Act that obligates all societies to offer training to their members. Ng’arisha Sacco has been an outstanding financial institution formally comprising of teachers but expanded boundaries due to necessity for investment by small business holders, bodaboda riders, other civil servants and society at large. CEO Wamukota Marklyne attributed the sustainability of the institution to the growing membership that has recently shot to more than 14,000. He further explained that apart from being a source of loan during emergencies, the Sacco is also an investment for the future and a hope for retired members of the organisation. Members were also called upon to use the society as a source of capital rather than a source of income. "Some members borrow loans to use for less important and unplanned activities and end up in financial straits which end up with them dodging society officials,” he said. For business loans, the camp educated members on the need for proper business and investment plans that could generate income to pay back the loans. Wamukota encouraged the youth, women and those living with disability to join groups and Saccos to support each other on matters development. The training was centered on encouraging the youth to start saving early for their future and the aged to keep saving regardless of any uncertainties including death. Some of the beneficiaries of Saccos have admitted to the noble role the societies have played in their personal development. Led by Eli Kunikina from Kanduyi and Rosemary Makhanu from Tongaren, the members lauded Saccos citing the benefits they have got out of them including buying land, educating children and building rental houses. Edited by R.Wamochie