Today is a great day for all 47 million Kenyans. Everyone wants to know how what we are debating today will transform their lives. Everyone here agrees there's need for all Kenyans to debate their problems. Brothers and sisters, for a long time, the way to debate is to talk anything just because you want to be applauded. This is why the national agenda gets stuck because you first want to mind your personal interests and be applauded, get votes or have someone close to you elected. We have failed to have a candid discussion as a family of diverse communities. We are because of after the 2017 election. I could have said I had won and proceeded to rule. But the nation was tearing apart. In some areas, even the capital,if you came from a different community you would be stoned. Our country was at the crossroads. Businesses had collapsed. We needed to come together. I thank my brother Raila Odinga because our first meeting was not easy. Each had his own fears. When we met, we spent over 45 minutes taking tea without anyone uttering a word. Because of the anger we had, given the insults we had thrown at each other, no one dared open up first. After an hour, we started talking. We agreed our differences were not so deep. While our vision was the same, competition was dividing us. We needed to establish why there was tension during every election. That was the beginning of the Building Bridges Initiative. We realised the most important thing was to forget political affiliations and ask ourselves what was causing violence. We needed peaceful elections. That was our agenda. However, when you make up with political enemies you are accused of planning against others. The 2017 PEV was not the first. We fought in 1992 and in 1997. In 2002 I conceded defeat and there was peace. In 2007, we fought and I was taken to the ICC. In 2010 I looked for my deputy William Ruto and we agreed our people were being affected. Thus we brought peace in 2013. That is exactly my agenda with my brother Raila. T The problem with politics is when you shake hands with this one, others say you have become an enemy. I appeal to this political class not to divide Kenyans. If we talk of peace and prosperity and give an enabling environment, 47 million people are mature enough to elect their leaders. Ours is to enable them and respect their wishes. This is not a time for this one verses that one, that time will come and Kenyans will decide. Let us make a level playing field so winners don't take everything, leaving losers empty-handed. We must seek a system making every Kenyan feel like a winner. After every election, we want Kenyans to return to their families and wait for results without fear. We differ on policies, my friends, not who has won or lost. The winner should lead those who voted for them and those who did not. The day we will win is when Raila will campaign in Kiambu and Ruto campaigns in Siaya and both get votes. We must solve our problems, brothers and sisters.  