There is no ceasefire yet between Israel and Palestine factions, including the Islamic Jihad, the country’s ambassador to Kenya has said. Responding to a question on whether it was true Egypt had facilitated a ceasefire on Thursday morning, Ambassador Oded Joseph yesterday said he would not really call it that. “I am not sure I would exactly use the term ceasefire. This is a continuous challenge because when you have organisations whose main reason or creed is terrorism based on hatred and extremist Islamic ideology, it needs persistent response from Israel and its friends," he said. "Even here, I believe only a persistent and continuous response by the Kenyan government against those who challenge its security that can win against terrorism.” Quoting Egyptian and Islamic Jihad sources, Al Jazeera had on Thursday reported that a Gaza Strip ceasefire had been agreed on and came into effect at 5:30am local time. “The ceasefire agreement comes as a result of Egypt's efforts and has been endorsed by Palestinian factions including Islamic Jihad,” Al Jazeera quoted a top Egyptian official. The Israeli envoy, however, said they have no “illusions the terror groups such as Hamas have changed their ideology and modus operandi”. Joseph said Israel will “always take all necessary steps to protect its citizens, and fight together with its friends all over the world, especially here in East Africa to end this common threat”. The terms laid out by Islamic Jihad leader Zeyad al-Nakhala in an interview with Al Mayadeen TV, Al Jazeera reported, included an end to Israel's targeted killings of fighters and Gaza border protesters as well as measures to ease a blockade on the Palestinian enclave. In two days since the attacks started on Tuesday, at least 32 Palestinians have been killed, with international media reporting civilians, including medics and a child, had died, and 12 people wounded. On the other hand, Joseph said 54 Israelis had been wounded. Asked about the civilian casualties on the Palestinians' side, Joseph said the Islamic group is using civilians as human shield, and that the majority of the casualties are Islamic Jihad extremists. Gaza has previously denied this. He, however, noted that Israel is committed and is in a continuous process to have a political solution because "it is in our interest given the people of Palestine are our immediate neighbours". “The challenge is that as it is, there is no single Palestinian authority that has total control over the behaviour and actions of their people. The authority in Ramallah, West Bank, has no say in Gaza Strip, the security situation or over Hamas”. Since 1970, there have been parallel efforts for a political settlement. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in a statement said Israel shall carry on with efforts to strike Islamic Jihad after targeting its senior commander Baba Abu Al-Ata on Monday, whom they accuse of orchestrating attacks originating from the Gaza Strip in the past year.