Kenya Karate Federation has named a provisional squad of 39 Karatekas who are expected to start non-residential training at Utalii College ahead of the African Championships scheduled for February next year in Morocco. 26 men and 13 ladies have been drafted in the team and are expected to start non-residential training on December 3 before moving to residential training on January 8. Out of the 39, only 15 (10 men and five ladies) will make the team to the African Championship scheduled for between February 3 and 10. Kenya Karate Federation Secretary General Gabriel Mutuku said: “We have received official communication from the Union of Federations of Africa Karate (UFAK) regarding the championship and therefore we need to strategise on how to make things work. He said they are also keen on partnering with some sponsors to allow their continental sojourn become a success. Mutuku revealed that the executive committee will hold a meeting this Saturday to chart the way forward. "Aside from government support,  we need to have a sponsor on board and that will be part of our discussions on Saturday. We have not held any discussions with the corp-orates but I am optimistic we will have one by the time the team leaves for Morocco.” National Social Security Fund NSSF club dominated the list with eight participants,  Kenya Prisons boast of five while Kenya Police has four. Zetech University, Delpack, Maji House, Karate Axiom, Kisumu, KDF and Utalii are also represented. Others include Sky life, Nyeri Mukusho, KU, Kakamega, TUK, JKUAT, APTC and Club Umoja. Technical director-cum-national coach John Owiti said the players were picked on merit. He said: “We looked at the all-year performances, including the Kenya Open and the recent Malindi Championships before coming up we the names. It is a quality team and with adequate training and proper facilitation, they can win medals for the country.” PROVISIONAL SQUAD MEN: Chris Machanja, Abubakar Otieno, Eric Juma, David Kamani, Aloice Amoko, Andrew Odhiambo, (NSSF), Joseph Kamau, Stephen Wesonga, JohnKyalo, Isaac Irie (Kenya Prison), Joshua Macharia, Martin Mbutu, Julius Muya, Collins Otieno (Zetex), Benard Kihuchu (Nyeri Mukusho), Daniel Auru (Club Umoja), Ian Kasoti, (JKUAT) John Thuo (TUK), Christopher Wambua (Karate Axiom) Collins Otieno, Felix Omuga (APTC), Ferdinand Kabisa (Kakamega), Anthony Mbogechi (KU), James Gikonyo, Jeremiah Mugwere (Maji House), Thomas Sankara (Kisumu). WOMEN: Geogina Kanini, Lorna Abiero (Delpack), Celine Atieno (Sky life), Phanice Apiyo (Karate Axiom), Rachaael Munanie, Purity Ngugi (NSSF), Rose Wanjiku, Stella Musyoka (Kenya Prisons) Catherine Mbithe, Margaret Njambi, Gladys Nyukoe (Kenya Police), Loren Dede (Utalii)