Top bosses at the Kenya Revenue Authority have panicked after the introduction of a new tax management system called Jasper. The software keeps track of all activities in the KRA system, including log-ins, deleting, storing and downloading. A mole at KRA Times Towers headquarters told Corridors of Power that the new system, which is superior to the previous one called Legacy, has sent shockwaves among staff. They fear it might be used to track illegal activities in the past five years, especially after incessant calls for a lifestyle audit. Maybe the clean-up KRA boss Githii Mburu promised is shaping up. ***** The culture of issuing handouts to sway voters is a common phenomenon in Kenya, and the upcoming Kibra by-election would not have been an exception. Usually, it's the politicians giving out money to voters, especially those from poor backgrounds, in return for their votes. In Kibra, however, a Jubilee MP was overheard asking for his handout as soon as he arrived for a rally to drum up support for the party’s candidate McDonald Mariga. “Where is my Sh100,000? I am from the village and I don't have any money,” he was overheard telling an aide to one of the party officials, who pleaded with him to wait for the end of the rally. ****** A lot of dirt concerning the manipulated loss of borrowers’ collateral in one of the banks in recent mergers is coming to the fore. Corridors of Power has established that one of the investigative authorities has already tendered a report to no less than the head of state capturing some of the cases of hidden ownership deeds by former staffers. Apparently, the merger gave corrupt managers a chance to snatch title deeds and other asset ownership documents from the rightful owners, among them a number that had actually cleared their loans. From the look of things, it’s just a matter of time before as many as 23 senior bank officers and investigators bite the dust. ****** A certain governor in Nyanza is fast losing support among the youth. The big man has been appointing elderly people to key positions under his influence. He recently constituted a crucial board and flooded it with old people with questionable integrity and educational background. The youth are disturbed by his association with individuals who served in various capacities before, including a CEC, chief officer and other high profile jobs. Word has it cartels are working around the clock to ensure no youth is appointed to the county public service board. If you have any tips send them to Tips@radioafricagroupe.co.ke