The Siaya administration has partnered with the rural and urban roads authorities to tame the construction of substandard roads in the region. The deal between the Roads department and the Kenya Rural Roads Authority (Kerra) and Kenya Urban Roads Authority (Kura) will help fast-track road projects. County Roads executive Jaoko Oburu said the arrangement will minimise cases of project duplication and improve the quality of road works. In the partnership,  the parties will pool resources, ideas, crafting of designs and supervision of road works in the county for best workmanship, he said. The executive said the majority of Siaya residents trade in various goods that depend on the roads hence the partnership will harmonise road networks. “We are 70 per cent done with the Yala ring-road which was one of our flagship projects. Through the partnership, we will construct the 19km Rabango-Kodiaga road and the 100m Kalkada Bridge and Opoda-Bondo Primary road,” Oburu said. Kura Nyanza region deputy director Richard Donde confirmed the agreement to share ideas, resources, and budget to fix poor roads. Donde said the importance of embracing such partnerships was to deal with most of the problems encountered on roads due to poor workmanship. “Part of the planned works include repairing box culverts destroyed by floods and culverts that connect Nyang’inja and Osumba villages through Agwambo road,” he said. The Wuoroya Bridge that connects Alego/Usonga and Ugunja and the Ka-Petero Bridge which connects Duyu-Owimbi will both be renovated. Donde said that the expenditure on county roads will be in line with the engineering certified scope of works assessed to ensure delivery of quality projects and ensure value for money. Kerra Nyanza deputy director Ochieng Adinda said the partnership will go a long way in easing the way roads are constructed in the region. Adinda urged motorists plying the Ndori - Owimbi route to reroute to Bondo for a  month as the construction of the twin box culverts at Ka-Petero are completed. (edited by O. Owino)