The government has denied reports that chemicals used during last week's KCSE chemistry practical’s were poisonous. The Kenya National Examination Council on Monday said the chemicals — xylene, bromine and calcium hypochloride — are part of the approved substances for laboratory use in school. Knec was reacting to social media reports that some teachers had fallen ill after inhaling chemical fumes during the exam taken on Thursday. The exams agency CEO Mercy Karogo said that the council has outlined safety precautions for handling hazardous substances in schools. “No reports have been made, neither was a brief sent back to the council as required on sick students or teachers as indicated on social media,” Karogo told the Star on Monday. The Kenya Post-primary Education Teacher's Union Kuppet has raised concerns about the possible effects of the chemicals to both teachers and students. But Basic Education PS Belio Kipsang on Monday said the chemicals were the same ones students had been using during chemistry practicals in regular lessons. Xylene is a colourless, sweet-smelling liquid or gas occurring naturally in petroleum, coal and wood tar and easily evaporates, according to the U.S department of health and human sciences. Calcium hypochlorite is used for making bleaching powder, chlorine powder, or chlorinated lime, used in water treatment and as a bleaching agent. Bromine is described as an intense yellow to red mixture with a suffocating smell used as a reactive in chemical substance for recognition of other substances that react with it in an aqueous environment. Industrial chemistry professor Mohamed Wasilwa said bromine water and xylene are best used under a fume chamber to reduce the chances of inhaling its emissions. Wasilwa teaches at Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology Kenya Secondary School Heads Association chairman Indimuli Kahi yesterday said they are yet to receive complaints about the use of the chemicals. Kuppet said that most schools cannot guarantee the safety of learners and teachers handling dangerous chemicals dues to poorly resourced laboratories. “Even with safety precautions, such instances expose learners and teachers to health problems," Kuppet secretary-general  Akello Misori said. (edited by O. Owino)