Some residents of Manyatta constituency in Embu prefer cash handouts to interest-free loans to start income generating projects, the area MP has said. John Muchiri said he had been trying to mobilise the youth to form self-help groups to get loans or other funds without success. He said the youth, especially men, have been asking him for cash instead of funds for long-term projects. The MP said the men would use such cash to buy alcohol and other luxuries, leaving them complaining about poverty and lack of opportunities. “The other day I offered Sh100, 000 to some boda boda youths as seed fund to start an income generating project and offered to organize a fund drive  for them but shockingly they demanded that I give them the money to use it on the spot,”  he said. Muchiri spoke at Manyatta Youth Empowerment Centre in Embu town when he distributed Sh4 million interest-free Uwezo Fund loans to 28 self-help groups in Kirimari ward. The MP said a lot needed to be done to sensitize men on the need to come together and pooling resources  to start income generating projects that will assist them grow  individually from proceeds of such projects. Muchiri said in the past he tried to assist local youths with funds to establish car wash businesses, buy matatus or boda bodas but such attempts failed after the targeted beneficiaries either demanded for instant cash to share or some sold the equipment and shared the proceeds. Muchiri said he was at a loss on what he should do to help his people if they can’t appreciate his efforts. He said he would seek assistance of the Youth Department to go round the constituency to sensitize young people on the need to apply for public funds for self-developments to uplift their standard of living. Muchiri said since he came to office, Uwezo Fund had disbursed over Sh24 million to hundreds of youths. He thanked those who had repaid their loans, saying they had been given more after reapplying. Muchiri also hailed persons living with disability who had been borrowing the loans, noting that some had been repaying on time.