As former Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale was engaged in a faceoff with youths who chased him away from DC grounds in Kibra, it seemed the police were having fun. A senior female cop was overheard briefing her seniors through her pocket radio in a description that fits a comedy scene. When asked what she had done to contain the situation, she replied; "I have chased him out of this place and he fled towards Kabarnet gardens on foot. He invaded people's bedroom and still had no manners even when he was inside.” The remark was perhaps meant to soothe the agitated boss. An accountant at the presidency is the talk among his colleagues complaining that he is assigned almost all trips abroad in disregard of his colleagues who wish the issue could be on rotational basis. The officer has always been telling his colleagues that there is nothing they can do to him because he is protected. Even during the time of former Prime Minister Raila Odinga, he was the one calling the shots on matters of accounts. Some of the officers were overheard lamenting that they have left everything to God as they indeed have nothing to do. They console themselves with the fact that no situation is permanent. A procurement manager in some fledgling quasi-state corporation has been fingered for using her position to settle personal scores. Though serving in acting capacity, the lady is the talk of town for unilaterally making outrageous decisions including cancelling existing contracts for businesses belonging to people deemed to be her political foes. Her apocalyptic style of leadership has had staff questioning her credentials to head such a crucial department and knack to avenge including summarily firing persons from specific community. Corridors has learnt that her seething vengeance is propelled by fact that her dad miserably lost an MP seat to young suave politician from the county. A House Committee wants to summon her over the rot in the department. The economic downturn appear to have hit hard even to the seemingly well oiled and influential people. Corridors observed section of MPs trooping to the ordinary cafeteria to devour common delicacy including Matumbo and Ndengu, ditching the posh five-star members’ parlour. Previously generous MPs, who used to walk with wands of cash tipping everyone on sight, have since gone mute. They have also reduced their trips to Parliament’s media centre which they frequented to respond to any mundane issue. Grapevine has it that a controversial Woman Representative from Northern Kenya is celebrating the recently released 2019 census report. She's overheard bragging to her minders that she has secured an appointment at the house on the hill with her elders to solicit for a parliamentary seat at the expense of another constituency in her county and curving another from her native constituency. The woman is so confident that she has organized for a victory party at her home in the said native constituency.