 Water scarcity will be a thing of the past for Mazumalume residents of Puma ward in Kwale following the commissioning of a Sh10.6 million water pan on Wednesday. The Kwa Diki Water Pan which was completed in 2018 has a capacity to serve more than 20,000 livestock and 6,000 people. Speaking during the commissioning in Kinango subcounty, National Drought Management Authority board chairman Raphael Nzomo said the small dam will provide water for domestic use and agricultural activities. Nzomo said the construction of the water pan was a way of countering the effects of climate change. “The increasingly devastating effects of weather oscillations tell us it is evident that dry season is approaching,” Nzomo said. He said the Kwa Diki Water pan has proved its worth as it has been constantly serving residents without drying up since even during the dry season. Nzomo said NDMA was concentrating on building more water pans and dams in arid and semi-arid regions. He said pans have convincingly proved to be effective in making water available for the communities and raising living standards since poverty and vulnerability are the main cause of famine disasters. “The idea of smaller earth dams and water pans is often regarded because they directly serve the defenseless people in the region and boost their socioeconomic status making them resilient to drought calamities,” Nzomo said. Mazumalume village is within Mazola sublocation, one of the driest parts of Kwale county. Residents solely survive on relief foods and water from the government during drought. The water pan will also serve residents of Malungoni, Gangani and Kituu villages. The Kwa Diki Water Pan was supported by the European Union. Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya who was present at the launch, said his administration will ensure residents drink clean and purified water. He challenged locals to protect the water pan. Nzomo said they have partnered with the Kwale county government for the Sh14.8 million Chengoni integrated food security in Samburu-Chengoni ward as a drought resilience project.  edited by peter obuya