Soul 4 Soul In the spirit of having a good time for a good cause, this Saturday, November 16, Soul 4 Soul is happening at the NIS Senior Campus - Outdoor Grounds. The show will feature some of the biggest musical acts in Nairobi including Xenia Manasseh, Karun, Sage, Mumala Maloba, Kato Change, Tetu Shani and Taio amongst others. All proceeds from Soul 4 Soul will go towards furthering the efforts of the Cancer Awareness and Treatment Support Initiative (CATSI). Dangerous Love The Kenya National Theatre is one of the best places to witness stagecraft in Kenya and this weekend it surely is the place to be. “Dangerous Love,” a hilarious play about love produced and directed by Esther Kamba, will be showing. The play that focuses on a shaky love relationship between Roy (played by Jack Chege) and Renee (played by Victoria Gachora) will leave you in stitches as you seek to figure out how the story ends. The showcase which kicked off on Friday, November 15 7pm will be showing on Saturday, November 16 and Sunday November 17. Sheepgotify This Join Sheepgoat, a member of the Kuona Artists Collective,  on Friday, November 22 at the Sheepgoat Studios for an extraordinary showcase like no other. The artiste will be launching the Sheepgoat published books in an installment that will also be showcasing art, poetry and music.The show kicks off at 3pm to 9 pm. Kenya Nights presents DJEFF As Kenya Nights celebrates 10 years they are promising an experience bigger than the last. Each month, they are bringing you some of the top artists across various genres as they build up towards a decade of Kenya Nights that will be going down on December 11th. This Saturday, November 16, at the Alchemist Bar, they are bringing you one of the best AfroHouse DJs to ever perform in Kenya, the Portuguese/Angolan DJEFF. Zouk-Soul Apio Moro from Uganda and Niuru from Kenya will be playing the Zouk Soul this Saturday, November 16 at The Captain Terrace. The music experience brought to you Oleman and the Wings will be combining two sounds from different East African countries. Entry is Free. Art of Unlearning If you are into comic strips, then this is for you. Saturday, November 16, Chief Nyamweya will be hosting a comic book day christened “Art of Unlearning” at the the Creatives Garage.Attendees will get an opportunity to experience some of his greatest works. The installation kicks off at 2pm to 5pm.