Kakamega Homeboyz head coach Nicholas Muyoti has credited their superb start in the 2019-2020 Kenya Premier League to team-work. Homeboyz have all defied odds to place second in the Kenya Premier League with 17 points—one shy of league leaders Gor Mahia, thanks to their five wins and two draws in nine matches. At the start of the season, club chairman Cleophas Shimanyula threatened to break Gor Mahia's dominance and yesterday, the businessman once again stood his ground. "I strongly believe we are on course to achieve our mission of stopping Gor. We play Gor in our next match and I believe we have what it takes to frustrate them if not beat them. Fans have already labelled us pacesetters but our seriousness will be gauged in the next five fixtures," he noted. Despite the glamorous start, Muyoti remained tight-lipped on the target set by Shimanyula as the former AFC Leopards midfielder insists he was focusing on bettering their last season's run having finished seventh. The former Thika United tactician said setting targets will invite pressure in the camp which is contrary to their 'game-at time approach' adopted at the start of the season. “We have embraced teamwork and one game at a time philosophy this season and so far so good. The support the office is offering to the team has gone a long way to the good run. I have avoided setting targets as far as ranking at the end of the season is concerned as it will inject pressure in the playing unit. We are only targeting to better last season's overall result,” he added. In a bid to maintain their good run, Muyoti, a former Kenya international challenged the players to step up their performance in their away matches. He noted that dropping points in away matches was their major undoing last season and has proved a challenge in the current campaign too. “Apart from the 4-2 win over Wazito in Machakos, we are not winning our away matches in a convincing way. It is a trend we are working to solve especially by fixing the defence as we can not afford to drop points every time we play away from Bukhungu Stadium,” added the former Nzoia Sugar coach.