After starting his third stint as the interim Sofapaka coach with a 2-1 win over Wazito, John Baraza has revealed the reason behind the club's renaissance. Sofapaka parted ways with their Portuguese head coach Divaldo Alves last week on Friday and elevated Baraza who has been serving as his assistant. Under Alves, Batoto Ba Mungu who are placed tenth had savoured victory twice in eight matches to throw their title hopes in doubt. The poor start despite the massive recruitment of players during the last transfer window and their financial muscles saw the club ring changes on the technical bench with Alves the biggest casualty. Having punched above his weight twice as an interim coach at the club, Baraza attributed 'freedom' for the players to express as the force behind the positive start in his touchline duties. The former Harambee Stars' player was in April last year picked to steer the club after his boss Sam Ssimbwa threw in the towel, citing personal reasons. He was handed a similar task early this year after Melis Medo was shown the door. “I gave the boys the freedom to express themselves on the pitch and it worked. I am looking to introduce a free attacking flair and play attractive football which was missing in the opening rounds. After Alves exit, I asked the players to brace themselves up for total football and their response against Wazito impressed me,” he said. Baraza, a league-winning player with the club in 2009, in the meantime believes they can end their 10-year wait for the trophy despite trailing leaders Gor Mahia by seven points. He said the gap between them and Gor is relatively narrow and he is counting on his experienced players to deliver the trophy at the end of the season. “It has been my wish to win the league as a coach and this season we will also give it a shot. The difference between us and the top team is not big to lock us out of the race. It's still too early to write us off. We have come too close in the past seasons and with the current crop of players at my disposal, I know what is required to deliver,”he noted.