Kenyatta University men's handball team coach Tobias Ocholla has urged his charges to build on their momentum ahead of the Kenya Universities Sports Association tournament in Eldoret next month. The tactician's plea came following double victory over the weekend. KU took the varsity bragging rights by beating both University of Eldoret Pippers 46-26 and University of Nairobi 47-29 to move to 10th on the log. KU had only won thrice prior to their weekend matches with six points. This has been down to irregular training. Ocholla said the team has learnt their mistakes after a narrow defeat to Strathmore and that they intend to bridge the gap between them and the big boys who have been dominant in the last couple of years. He said: "We are using the Kenya Handball Federation league to prepare for KUSA. The classy performance from the boys is down to hard work even though we do not train consistently as a team. The team looks fearless and wants to match up with the league's best teams like National Cereals and Produce Board NCPB and Black Mamba. The good run must continue if we have to move to the top of the table but we are on the right path." Elsewhere, Strathmore University 's nine game-winning run came to an end after losing 23-27 to Rangers on Saturday. Tazlem Kelvin was the hero with 10 goals for Rangers while Simon Mutuku registered six for the students. Rangers quartet of Levis Sitati, Dancun Kimutai, Stephen Chemasat and Mike Maboya popped with three goals each for Rangers. Strathmore bounced back to winning ways yesterday as they narrowly defeated UON 31-28 to move to second with 20 points. Rangers also managed a narrow 23-22 victory over Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology. UON also lost by a margin of eight goals to General Service Unit in 20-28 demolition from the paramilitary side who won for the first time this season. Pippers beat JKUAT 26-25. Nairobi Water maintained their unbeaten run with a sixth victory of the season. They downed KU 37-15 in the only women match.