A top of the table clash between second-placed Nairobi Stima and third-placed Vihiga United will be the highlight of matchday 17 of the FKF National Super League this weekend. Nairobi Stima coach Leonard Odipo and his Vihiga counterpart Sammy Okoth were bullish mood yesterday ahead of the game set for this Sunday at Mumias Complex. Odipo said: “We anticipate a highly entertaining game because the two teams have quality players and top coaches. Fans will be properly entertained.” The tactician added: “Nairobi Stima and Vihiga are both in the promotion race and the game promises thrills. For us, we have been chasing promotion for long and I believe this is our season for promotion. We are up to the task.” Odipo praised Vihiga United coach Sammy Okoth, saying he is a good coach. “I used to watch him play during his heydays and it will be good to play against him.” On his part, Okoth said the 16 matches they have played so far have not been easy. “Every game for us has been like a final. The fact that we were relegated and we maintained the same strong team makes us a target,” said the former striker. He added: “We are busy preparing for the game against Nairobi Stima. We anticipate another tough game but we are prepared to face them. Our agenda remains to return to the KPL and rectifying the mistakes which forced us into relegation. For us to qualify, we must fight hard.” Log leaders Nairobi City Stars will also be in action on Sunday against St Joseph's Youth at Hope Centre. With three games to go in the first leg, City Stars hold a six-point lead at top of the log and remain unbeaten. Other matches scheduled for Sunday will see Paul Ogai's Coast Stima host Kenya Police while Murang'a Seal and Modern Coast Rangers will face off Thika Stadium. On Saturday, fourth-placed Migori Youth will be at home against bottom of the table Kibera Black Stars seeking to move to third place as fifth-placed Bidco United take on Administration Police Bomet at Thika Stadium. Vihiga Bullets, under coach Edward Manoah, will welcome Fortune Sacco while Talanta will be up against Administration Police at Camp Toyoyo. imping Shabana battle Mt Kenya United at Ruaraka grounds.