Manchester City’s defensive resources have been stretched thin this season but former captain Vincent Kompany says they do not need to sign another defender in January to get their Premier League title defence back on track. City did not move to replace central defender Kompany when he left the Etihad Stadium for Anderlecht in May, while the champions have since lost Aymeric Laporte to a long-term injury. Midfielder Fernandinho has been played as a makeshift central defender alongside John Stones in recent games but the pair struggled against Liverpool in Sunday’s 3-1 defeat at Anfield. “I don’t think they need to sign another defender,” Kompany told Sky Sports. “The best way for City to defend in the past has been to attack. They have no reason to change that. As soon as they start reconnecting with the best performances, I’m convinced that we can see a sustainable amount of wins.” Leaders Liverpool have opened up a nine-point gap on fourth-placed City, but Kompany says his former side can turn things around to win a third consecutive title under Pep Guardiola. “There’s a lot of positives to be said about this (Liverpool) team, but I still believe Manchester City are in a position where they have recent history going for them,” he added. Meanwhile, England boss Gareth Southgate’s decision to drop Raheem Sterling for a clash with team mate Joe Gomez will only heap the pressure on the winger and the issue could have been dealt with better, former defender Rio Ferdinand has said. Sterling was dropped from the squad to take on Montenegro tomorrow in a Euro 2020 qualifier at Wembley after a ‘disturbance’ at the national team’s training camp on Monday, the Football Association said. The Daily Mail said that Manchester City’s Sterling had clashed with Liverpool’s Gomez at the England team’s Burton on Trent training centre ­— less than 24 hours after City were beaten 3-1 at Anfield in the Premier League. “Now Raheem is left to defend himself from all of the haters that had their keyboards turned off due to him becoming a very worthy ambassador for the English game,” Ferdinand wrote in a Facebook post. “If this was a terrible incident then I would be all for public shaming and discipline. But for this ‘throat grab’ that we are told it’s for, I can’t understand it. Gareth would no doubt had seen worse many times during his time as a player and manager. I just feel this could and should have been handled better to support the player and not hang him out to dry.” The newspaper said that ‘Sterling attempted to grab Gomez by the neck following his arrival in the players’ canteen’. The duo had earlier squared up during Sunday’s Premier League clash. “As a manager I’m sure having a harmonious squad is the best scenario — handshakes and hugs on sight not confrontations. But let’s be honest now this kind of stuff isn’t uncommon in squads full of testosterone,” added Ferdinand, who made 81 appearances for England in his career. “In the various squads I’ve been a part of I’ve seen players get punched in the face, ribs broken, nose busted, head kicked like a football... a throat grab was the equivalent of the intricate handshake embraces that are all too familiar today. “The main question is: Why this couldn’t be handled internally?” Sterling issued a statement after being dropped saying emotions got the better of him and he was ready to move on. “It seems to me, Raheem felt embarrassed by all that went on... a sign of winning mentality... however channelled wrongly. Help educate him,” former Manchester United defender Ferdinand said. “One of our world class players who has conducted himself wonderfully through racism and unwarranted criticism... will now come under more scrutiny and be vilified in the media.”