Five cattle tethered near a river were swept downstream at Nyakoe in Kisii after the river broke its banks following the ongoing heavy rains. Villagers, however, managed to recover one bull some metres downstream. By Friday morning, they were going on with the search for the rest. The four bulls and one cow had been bought for slaughter and were tied near the town's abattoir when raging waters of Nyakoe River swept them away. County Police Commander Martin Kibet asked residents with houses near river banks to move to safer areas to avoid deluge. "As heavy rains continue to pound the country we are bound to see such incidents but as a matter of precaution we urge  caution that any one in places likely to experience erosions and mudslides to pack and move to solid higher grounds," said Kibet. Separately, police in Kenyenya, Bomachoge Borabu in Kisii seized a man suspected of poisoning his six-year-old son on Thursday evening. Denis Magangi, 35, picked a quarrel with his wife Beatrice Nyagonyo over undisclosed issue before the he laced food with substance believed to be poison and served it to the minor. The boy was pronounced dead upon arrival at Magenche Dispensary. An attempt by the suspect to kill himself was thwarted by villagers, county police boss Martin Kibet said. Magangi was rushed to Kenyenya Sub- County Hospital for treatment. "We will arraign him in court after investigations are complete and as soon he is discharged," Kibet  told the Star. Also in Marani, a father of five is fighting for his life in hospital after a suspected poisoning incident. Police say they are holding his son for the incident. He was, however, said to be out of danger. At Masongo, the body of man suspected to had been strangled was found in a quarry at in the area. Area chief  James Nyakonu said  he was tipped by a member of public that there was a body lying on Menyikwa/Masongo quarry road before he  passed the information to the police. "There were strangulation marks on the neck and bruises on his back. Blood was oozing from his mouth too," police boss Martin Kibet said. The body was moved to Kisii Teaching and Referral Hospital for autopsy. Detectives have since begun investigations into the killing.