Twenty four hours before the World Athlete of the Year gala, Brigid Kosgei has hinted on her world marathon record being cut down to 2:12 with proper pace making. Speaking during a press conference here in Monaco, Brigid said records are set to be broken and she doesn't expect her record to last long. She also said she can go under 2:12 if she can be offered the kind of backing world men's record holder Eliud kipchoge had in Vienna recently. She, however, noted that alot of hard work and training have to be put in if one is to attempt any training. "I run 200km every week in training and i guess that is why i am able to post these kind if results,” Brigid set a new record of 2:14.04 in Chicago Marathon last month breaking 16 year old Briton Paula Radcliffe mark by over a minute. The mother of twins Faith Chepchumba and Brian Kibet said she prepared well for Chicago and the record did come as a surprise. Speaking about todays awards, Brigid said she is lucky to have made it to the top five list of nominees and anything else will be a bonus. She will come up against the quartet of world 1500 and 10000m champion Sifan Hassan of Netherlands,World triple jump champion and Venezuela national Yulimar Rojas. Others muscling for the award are Dalilah Muhammad of the United States of America and Shelly-Ann Fraser of Jamaica."If i win that is fine but if i fail to get it, there is always next time," she added. She admitted that it has been an interesting year for women marathoners with Ruth Chepngetich winning the world championships title and Joyciline Chepkosgei ruling New York marathon among others. Brigid who is also the London Marathon champion also confirmed that she will race at the Olympic Games next year. "God willing, i want to be in Tokyo despite the current controversy surrounding the marathon venue. As long as the conditions are right, i hope to deliver," she added. She has been nominated alongside Eliud Kipchoge from Kenya. Unfortunately Kipchoge will not be in Monaco to receive his award in case he wins. Sources said Kipchoge had prior commitment and is not able to attend the gala. 