Born preterm and with low birth weight 43 years ago, Kioko would not have been alive today were it not for a neighbour and family friend who volunteered to wet-nurse him for more than a month. It was common practice in those days in the Kamba community for a healthy breastfeeding woman to volunteer to breastfeed an infant on behalf of an unwell or weak new mother. In Kioko's case, his mother could not produce milk after his birth because of anxiety over his health. She hoped against hope that the frail infant would miraculously survive. As a mother of six daughters, she had become an object of mockery by her co-wife, who constantly taunted her for not having sired an heir for their husband. She was desperate to save her son’s life. Luckily for her, a neighbour known as Inyaa Kawisya (Kawisya’s mother) came to her rescue. She offered to breastfeed Kioko until he grew stronger. Both women had given birth at home with the help of Mwasisya Mutindi, a renowned and trusted birth attendant in Nguuni village, Machakos county. Unlike Kioko’s mother, Kawisya’s mother had nine sons and had been hoping for a girl. She gave birth to a boy. She would breastfeed Kioko after her son had had his share of milk. Kioko’s mother couldn’t be more thankful. She had seen other women in the village lose their preterm babies barely a month after delivery. The cow milk that most opted for was intolerable for their severely underweight babies. Other babies died because their mothers shunned the wet nurse in fear that their babies would become attached to them and 'disown' their real mothers in future. As a consequence, many newborns who were fed on cow milk died. Today, though the mortality rate of infants below one year has significantly reduced since the 1970s, risks facing preterm and low birth weight infants remain the same. Caroline Mwihaki, 29, is still coming to terms with the loss of her firstborn son seven months ago. He was born preterm and with low birth weight. Mwihaki developed high blood pressure and risked losing her life. Her obstetrician chose to operate on her and delivered the baby two months before her due date to save her life. The move saved both mother and child. The newborn, however, died three days later due to suspected intolerance to formula milk. The little boy's stomach began swelling a day after he was introduced to the milk. He succumbed while in hospital in the high dependency unit. According to the World Health Organization, human milk is best for newborns and babies because it is easily digested, boosts babies' immunity and helps in brain and body development. The health body recommends that infants born preterm, with low birth weight or those separated from their mothers for whatever reason, be fed on donor human breast milk instead of formula or cow milk. It's on this premise that the human milk bank concept was invented in Kenya. Kenya is the second country in Africa, after South Africa, to embrace the life-saving concept. "Human milk is white gold," said Mary Kimani, a nutritionist working alongside the Health ministry. A first of its kind, the human milk bank was launched at Pumwani Hospital in March this year. The concept mimics wet-nursing, where mothers donate milk to infants born preterm, with low birth weight or those separated from their mothers due to death, sickness or other reasons. The project is a partnership between the Health ministry, African Population Health Research Centre (APHRC) and PATH International. Dr Elizabeth Kimani, a research scientist at APHRC, says the project is in its pilot stage and targets newborns below one month due to their vulnerability. "Since the newborns are very sensitive we ensure that donors undergo thorough screening before they are allowed to donate milk," she says. Kimani also heads the organisation’s maternal and newborn unit. Only mothers who have given birth at the facility and are yet to be discharged are allowed to donate milk. Screening is first done through a questionnaire to check if the donor is a drug or substance abuser. A mother with multiple sex partners isn’t allowed to donate milk as the habit is considered a risk factor for multiple infections. Donors are screened for sexually transmitted infections such as syphilis, HIV and Hepatitis B and C. These diseases can be transmitted to babies through milk. The donors' records are kept so that follow-up can be done in case of any queries. The milk is stored in separate and labelled containers before it is pasteurised and frozen at -20 degrees. Statistics from Pumwani Hospital show that by the end of October 2019, 30 newborns had benefited from donor human milk and 380 mothers had donated towards the noble cause. "We have witnessed a lot of goodwill from donors. There is also a high demand for milk banks in other hospitals," says Faith Njeru, the nurse in charge of the human milk bank. Though setting up a human milk bank is a costly venture, its benefits outweigh the cost as far as saving vulnerable newborns’ lives is concerned. “I was devastated when my daughter died of eclampsia a few hours after giving birth,” Fauzia Abdi says. Eclampsia is a medical term for seizures that occur due to high blood pressure during pregnancy. The 50-year-old grandmother is, however, grateful that her granddaughter born at Pumwani Hospital survived and is a beneficiary of donor human milk. Though according to Somali culture infants who share breast milk are considered siblings and cannot marry in future, the survival of the little girl came first for Fauzia. According to the Nutritionists Association of Kenya chairman Henry Ng'ethe, infants who are fed on breast milk are likely to attain their optimum level of physical growth as the milk prevents stunting. Breast milk is also associated with mental growth as it improves a child's ability to read, remember and understand what they learn at school. This translates to better performance in school and a more productive workforce later in life. On the other hand, artificial feeding has been associated with frequent and persistent diarrhoea, respiratory infections and malnutrition. Some infants can also become allergic or develop intolerance to cow or processed milk and are ultimately predisposed to non-communicable diseases.