Good morning, A low turnout, voter bribery claims and pockets of violence marred the hotly contested Kibra by-election. At the heart of the battle for the seat was Deputy President William Ruto against Opposition chief Raila Odinga. Here are the other stories making headlines in the Star this morning. The decline or stagnation of population in some counties is caused by out-migration, use of contraceptives and deaths, the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics says. KNBS director general Zachary Mwangi says, for now, this is the most likely explanation for counties whose population declined or didn't grow as leaders had projected.  Former President Daniel Moi has been discharged from The Nairobi Hospital. His medical team led by his personal physician, David Silverstein, gave him a clean bill of health . "The Moi family has expressed gratitude to all those who offered prayers and sent quick recovery," Press secretary Lee Njiru said on Thursday. President Uhuru Kenyatta yesterday signed into law the Finance Bill 2019, effectively scrapping section 33b of the Banking Act that introduced capped interests at four per cent above Central Bank Rate. This means banks are now free to set desired interest rates for their loan products.  Players in the tourism sector are alarmed that Diani, a popular and globally recognised destination, is now staring at a bleak future as a world-class tourist attraction. The jitters are fuelled by the results of a recent study conducted between July and September on ongoing dredging activities for port infrastructure development off the coast of Tiwi and Waa beaches. It found that they have negatively impacted economic fortunes off the south coast. Many Mau Forest evictees will not be compensated after the government said the title deeds they presented are fake or improperly acquired. Attorney General Kihara Kariuki on Thursday backed the Environment ministry,  which said title deeds presented by some affected persons for payout were illegally acquired.