The rain is expected to continue pounding several parts of the country, the Kenya Meteorological Department has said. Kenya Meteorological Department director Stella Aura said Nairobi, Nyandarua, Nyeri, Kirinyaga, Murang'a, Kiambu, Meru, Embu, and Tharaka are likely to experience morning rains over a few places. "Cloudy conditions that break into sunny intervals are likely to occur towards the end of the forecast period," Aura said. The forecast is valid from November 12 to November 18. The forecast shows that afternoon and evening showers are likely to occur in several places on Wednesday and Thursday. Aura said the rain intensity is likely to reduce towards the end of the forecast period. She said the counties of Siaya, Kisumu, Homa Bay, Migori, Kisii, Nyamira, Trans Nzoia, Baringo,Uasin Gishu, Elgeyo Marakwet, Nandi, Laikipia, Nakuru, Narok, Kericho, Bomet, Kakamega, Vihiga, Bungoma and Busia are likely to experience occasional morning rains on Wednesday and Thursday. "The mornings are likely to be mainly sunny," Aura said. Afternoon and evening showers and thunderstorms are expected over several places between Tuesday and Friday and over a few places in the remaining days. Aura said the counties of Turkana, West Pokot and Samburu are likely to experience sunny intervals during the day and partly cloudy skies at night throughout the forecast period. Marsabit, Mandera, Wajir, Garissa and Isiolo are likely to experience morning rains and afternoon showers over a few places between Tuesday and Friday. The forecast said the remaining days are likely to be sunny and the nights partly cloudy. Counties of Kajiado, Kitui, Makueni, Machakos and Taita Taveta are likely to experience morning rains over a few places on Thursday and Friday. The remaining mornings are likely to be mainly sunny. Mombasa, Tana River, Kilifi, Lamu and Kwale counties are likely to experience morning and early afternoon showers between Tuesday and Friday. The remaining days are expected to be mainly sunny with the possibility of morning showers over a few places. The nights will be partly cloudy. Aura said Wajir, Bungoma, Meru and Elgeyo Marakwet recorded heavy rainfall of between 50mm to 74mm. At the weekend, the Intergovernmental Authority on Development Climate Prediction and Applications Centre said higher than usual rains are expected to continue throughout November and December. The centre covers Igad members states  —Djibouti, Ethiopia, Eritrea, Kenya, Somalia, Sudan, South Sudan, Uganda, Tanzania, Rwanda and Burundi. The forecast by the Centre showed that a tropical storm named KYARR has been developing in the northern Indian Ocean. "The Indian Ocean Dipole is in one of its strongest positive states since 2006. In this state, warm, moist air flows westwards inland, increasing the likelihood of higher rainfall over East African countries," the forecast indicated.