Tens of traders operating at the Naivasha public slaughterhouse have opposed a move by the Nakuru county government to order them out. In a notice signed by the county secretary Benjamin Njoroge, the workers, butchery owners and other traders have been directed to vacate by January 31 next year. The move is meant to facilitate the construction of 2,400 units of affordable houses on the 55 acres around the abattoir. The traders, through the Naivasha United Butchers Association, have said that they will not budge. They have given the county 14 days to withdraw the notice. Accompanied by their lawyer, the group said the county had not provided an alternative area for a slaughterhouse. They said that they were being pushed out of business. Association chairman Wang’ombe Mboi said hundreds of families depended on the slaughterhouse directly and indirectly for a living. Mboi said the county had imposed dictatorial means to demolish the abattoir without consulting them yet they were the primary casualties. “We will not move. Let this message be clear to those involved. The slaughterhouse will not be demolished and the governor should look for alternative land,” he said. The group's lawyer George Kimani said they had written to the county to reverse the decision or face court action. Kimani said they were demanding the immediate revocation of the notice because it was unlawful, oppressive, embarrassing and unconstitutional. “The suggested intention of decommissioning, demolition and relocation of the abattoir whose value is in excess of Sh40 million is suspect, destructive and economically wrong,” he said. Kimani said upon the expiry of the 14 days they will move to court if the county will not have shown interest in resolving the issue through an alternative mechanism. The group’s patron John Muita accused the governor of killing an industry relied on by tens of area residents. “We should be talking of value addition and this county should help us in realising this goal in line with the Big Four agenda,” he said. (edited by O. Owino)