 Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko's executives and top officials will from Friday appear before the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission investigators to record statements in connection with the construction of Dandora Stadium. Suspended executives Mohamed Dagane (Health) and Charles Kerich (Finance) will also be questioned. The request to appear at Integrity Centre was made by EACC chief executive Twalib Mbarak in a letter dated November 19 and addressed to the county secretary. The anti-graft agency last month launched investigations into suspected procurement illegalities, including an alleged irregular payment of Sh196 million in the ongoing construction of the Dandora Stadium. "Further to our letter dated November 15 on the above subject, this is to require that the following officers avail themselves at Integrity Centre without fail on the revised dates indicated below," Mbarak's letter reads. Those scheduled to appear at the EACC headquarters on Friday include Joyce Kinyanjui (Director IGR & Head of CEC Secretariat), Samwel Kinyanjui (Administration Offcier - CEC Secretariat), Peter Mugo (Chief Of Staff) and Leboo Morintat (Deputy County Secretary). Executives Winfred Gathangu (Agriculture), Larry Wambua (Devolution) and Mohamed Dagane (Health - suspended) and former county attorney Christine Ireri are scheduled to appear on December 2. Hitan Majevdia (Roads), Vesca Kangogo (Environment), Allan Igambi (Trade) and Lucia Mulwa (Education) will appear before the investigators the following day. Lands executive Pauline Kahiga, Newton Munene (ICT) and Kerich will be questioned on December 4. The team was required to appear for questioning last week but the executives were away in Mombasa for a meeting with the County Assembly Committee of Finance, Budget and Appropriations concerning City Hall's supplementary budget. Sonko wrote to the commission, saying its request could not be met. "Your notice is too short and not convenient since prior arrangements to comply is not feasible. All officials are already engaged out of Nairobi in a budget committee meeting and therefore the notice is untenable for compliance," Sonko said. The officials were asked to carry certified copies of their letters of appointment and the County Executive Committee Memoranda No. 1 -4 of 2019. The anti-graft agency has also requested that the officials submit Agenda Notices for County Executive Committee Meetings No. 5 to 7 of 2019 and minutes of the 5th and 6th meetings of the executive. It will be the second time Lands executive Pauline Kahiga is appearing before EACC this year. On May 8, when she was acting county secretary, Kahiga recorded a statement at  Integrity Centre after EACC officers visited her office to obtain documents related to Dandora dumpsite.  edited by peter obuya