Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology have been relegated to the Super League after losing  3-0 Sailors yesterday. Linet Lusinde was the hero with a 16-minute hat trick at the City Park Stadium. She scored in the 33rd, 35th and 49th minute respectively to inflict the students with their 11th defeat of the season. JKUAT's 1-0 week over Sliders on November 17, their first of the season, revived the teams hope of avoiding the drop despite languishing at the bottom of the table from the first fixture where they were stung by Strathmore Scorpions in a 9-0 demolition. Prior to the match, JKUAT had collected five points from one win and two draws. Seventh-placed Kenyatta University who had six points survived and their match against USIU was a dead rubber. Despite the hard-hitting reality, JKUAT's coach Samuel Oungo will take solace from the fact that he has guided the men National League side to promotion to the Super League after an unbeaten run. Men sides Sikh Union and Parklands suffered the same fate. They both lost over the weekend to Strathmore Gladiators 2-1  and Reigning champions Butali Warriors 2-0 respectively. Gladiators captain Festus Onyango scored twice to take his tally to nine-two behind leading scorer Chris Wokila of Greensharks. Parklands will find it difficult to get hold of their top scorer Dan Onyango. The former Strathmore man has scored seven goals and will be a hot property once the transfer window opens on 23rd next month. Sikh, the only club with an Astroturf, will have to freshen up their squad if they have to dream of an immediate return to the Premier League. Meanwhile, record winners Blazers had a comfortable afternoon on Saturday after demolishing United States International University USIU-A Spartans 4-0. Prodigy Elinah Chebet grabbed a brace while Audrey Omaido and Terry Masibo were also on the score sheet. Yesterday they signed off their season with 2-0 win over Sliders with goals from Barbara Simiyu and Omaido. Robinson Omutekete took his tally to eight goals as he helped Western Jaguars overpower Sailors 3-2 at Kakamega. Captain Willis Malesi and Emmanuel Wiswa also scored for the home side. Lanox Onyango and top scorer Johnstone Mulindi scored for the visitors. 