Dagoretti North Member of Parliament Simba Arati has dared the DCI to arrest him following the fracas witnessed in Kibra. Arati on Sunday said George Kinoti's teams should first hunt for Deputy President William Ruto is was behind the chaos witnessed in various polling stations during the Thursday mini poll. The vocal legislator was speaking on Sunday at the DC grounds in Kibra constituency during the thanks giving rally after ODM candidate Imran Okoth won the poll. Arati said he is aware of Ruto's salary and that he has looted public funds. He alleged that the DP has paid some bloggers to tarnish his name on social media, saying that he should be arrested. "Nataka kuambia DCIO na ODPP leo ya kwamba mtu wa kwanza kukamatwa ni William Ruto. Alifanya bribery kwa ofisi pale Karen. Hizo pesa alikua akipeana alitoa wapi ilhali tunajua mishahara yake?" Arati said. (Today I want to tell the DCIO and the ODPP today that the first person to be arrested is William Ruto. We are aware he bribed people at his Karen home. We know his salary and he must declare the source of that money). Arati said as a matter of fact, he is the one who rescued Kimilili MP Didimus Barasa and his colleagues from the rowdy youths who wanted to attack them contrary to what has been reported. "I rescued Didimus Barasa. Were it not my effort, we could be talking of something else by now," Arati said. The legislator  alleged that Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi had threatened him following the by-election. In response to Bungoma youth, Arati said he will visit them so that they can have a one on one discussion. The youth and boda boda riders had asked Arati to apologise to Didmus after seeting him up, but Arati said that is a matter they can debate on. "Nitafanya mkutano Bungoma na Eldoret ndio nione ni nini mtanfanya. Tuko tayari kulinda bedroom, hata langata pia tuko tayari kuhamia huko." After a win in Kibra, Arati said the party is ready to reclaim Lang'ata seat which was won in 2017 general election by Nixon Korir, who is a Jubilee MP.