The Kenya Hockey Union have clashed with women's  Super League stakeholders over the promotion criteria to the top tier league. Deputy fixture and match secretary Moses Majiwa said even though the matter is subject to confirmation, the KHU are only keen to elevate only one team. "So far we are only looking at promoting one team to the top tier and one dropping to the super league from the Premier League. It is subject to ratification even though we want to build the Premier League to 10 teams,” Majiwa remarked. Interestingly, most clubs had assumed that two teams will be promoted. Wolverine's team manager Denis Owoka registered his concerns saying it is neither professional nor fair for KHU to be undecided at this juncture of the league. “All rules are made at the start of the season and I am just wondering why they had to wait until the last minute to make this decision. You can't make rules at the end of a process. Kenyatta University and Lakers were promoted last season and two teams dropped. That is what we expect to happen as it has been that way in all the leagues," he noted. The women Super League season ends on December 15 as Orange Leonas, Wolverines and University of Nairobi UON all brace up for the promotion fight. Leonas and Wolverines both have 25 points although the former are ranked first by virtue of superior goal difference. UON are third with 24 points. Leonas and UON take on Vikings and Nakuru respectively in their final assignments. Wolverines have three matches and remain favourites to clinch top spot. Wolverines face  Mombasa Sports Club away on November 30 having won 3-2 in the first leg. A week later, they host Nakuru before a gruelling task against Multimedia University Leonas' coach David Omwaka said the decision lies with KHU though he is crossing his fingers as the promotion battle hots up. “The girls have done well. I hope they will win their remaining match and wait for the outcome from their rivals,” he observed. UON have not lost a match but tactician Mudoga Luvanda regretted that the many points dropped could potentially dent their chances. “The race is tight. We have drawn six matches that probably will hurt us should we not achieve our target. We have had ups and downs and we can only do our part in the last match.” MSC's match will be like final for Wolverines, according to coach Gordon Oduor.“Wining in Mombasa will be a step closer to return to the Premier League. We need at least four points. We won't underrate any team.” 