Gor Mahia coach Steven Polack has hailed his playing unit for putting behind their financial woes to open a six-point gap at the top of the Kenyan Premier League. Polack who was yesterday feted with the October Sports Journalist Association of Kenya (SJAK)/Fidelity coach of the month award, said the players had exuded professional discipline despite going for almost four months without pay. The defending champions seem almost a sure bet to claim their 19th league crown as they have garnered 24 points to sit comfortably at the apex and the gap could widen to 12 points should they win their two matches in hand. Polack, who became the second coach to win the award this season after Western Stima’s Salim Babu, showered his players with praises for their exemplary performance during the month where Gor had a one hundred per cent record. The Briton edged former Gor assistant coach Zedekiah ‘Zico’ Otieno who currently serves as KCB head coach to the award, thanks to the nine points gathered within the month. Zico guided the bankers to collect seven points while duo of Posta Rangers coach Sammy ‘Pamzo’ Omolo and Kakamega Homeboyz’s Nicholas Muyoti came in third and fourth respectively on six points each. “I am impressed with the character and discipline of my player who have maintained a winning culture despite the prevailing financial challenges. They have gone without pay for long but I laud their hard work in training and on match days. Without their efforts and that of the rest of the technical bench, I would not have won the award,” he said During the month, Gor beat Nzoia Sugar 2-0 before humbling the duo of Zoo Kericho and Kariobangi Sharks with a similar 1-0 scoreline. Meanwhile, with the Cecafa Senior Challenge beckoning, Polack is not afraid of losing his senior players, who are expected to join the national team. The regional showpiece is expected to get underway on December 7 to 19 in Uganda, where Gor are set to release players to both the Kenyan and Tanzanian national teams. “We have around 25 players who are equal to the challenge. If a handful of players will be summoned for the tournament, I have no worries at all even though I would have wanted to have a full house,” he added. At the same time, the former Asante Kotoko tactician said the recent resurgence by former Stars first-choice goalkeeper Boniface Oluoch is all what he wanted to revamp the goalkeeping department which has been on the receiving end. Oluoch made superb saves during their last weekend's 2-0 win over Bandari and Polack admitted his performance has prompted selection headache in the department. Oluoch will battle for the starting berth with Tanzanian David Mapigano when they play Ulinzi Stars this weekend.