It's a do or die situation for Harambee Starlets as they face Zambia's Copper Bullets in the second leg of their penultimate round of the CAF Olympics qualifiers. David Ouma's charges jetted out to Lusaka, Zambia on Saturday night ahead of the return leg this evening. “We have our work cut out,” admitted captain Dorcas Shikobe. “We can't afford to hold anything back now because we are in a must-win situation and that is what we are going to try and get. Our dreams remain on course,” she said. Starlets left the country on Saturday night (11 pm) and arrived in Lusaka at 2 am yesterday morning. The Kenyan girls were held to a 2-2 draw by the 'Shepolopolo' in the first leg on Friday and Ouma accepted there is now, all to play for in the second leg, whose winner proceeds to the tournament’s fifth and final qualifying round. “It's not the ideal result but we are still in with a chance. We only have to go to Lusaka and win the game. We have shown that we can score goals and now we have to show defensive resilience to win away from home," the Starlets' coach said after the stalemate at Kasarani on Friday. Having kept the dangerous trio of Barbra Banda, Rachel Kundananji and captain Misozi Zulu largely at an arms-length, before Rachel came up with the equaliser, Shikobe and her defensive partners will have to put in an even better performance away from home. With scoring now paramount for the Kenyan ladies, Ouma will have no choice but to start with teenage winger Jentrix Shikanga. But it is from Mwanahalima Adam that Starlets will look to for inspiration to keep their Olympic dream alive. The Thika Queens attacker has not scored in their last three games and will be looking to put things right this evening. The second leg will be played at the Nkoloma Stadium in Lusaka. Goalkeepers: Annette Kundu (Eldoret Falcons), Monica Odato (Wadadia), Judith Osimbo (Gaspo); Defenders: Defenders: Dorcas Sikobe (Oserian Ladies), Nelly Sawe (Thika Queens), Ruth Ingosi (Eldoret Falcons), Lydia Akoth (Thika Queens), Lucy Akoth (Mathare United ), Wincate Kaari (Gaspo), Vivian Nasaka (Vihiga Queens): Midfielders: Sheril Angachi (Gaspo ), Cynthia Shilwatso (Vihiga Queens), Vivian Odhiambo Aquino (Gaspo), Jentrix Shikangwa (Vihiga Queens), Elizabeth Wambui (Gaspo); Forwards: Janet Bundi (Eldoret Falcons), Mercy Airo (Kisumu All Starlets), Rasoha Siliya (Kibera Girls Academy), Mwanalima Adam (Thika Queens) and  Topister Situma (Vihiga Queens).