A proposal for religious institutions to receive funding from the Constituency Development Fund will end the debate on donations to churches, an MP has said. Suna West MP Peter Masara has urged his colleagues in Parliament to support his amendment to the CDF law to allow two per cent of the funds to be used allocated to religious activities. The motion will be debated next year. “When the motion comes to the floor of the House, I urge my colleagues to support it to end the raging debate on donations politicians give in churches,” the legislator said on Sunday. He spoke during a funds drive at Maranatha Faith Assemblies Church, Oruba in his constituency on Sunday. “We don’t have to push churches into blame games bordering on politics and corruption when politicians lead funds drives,” Masara said. If the motion goes through, he said, the funds will be managed by religious leaders to support development projects. “Churches also pay taxes to the government and they have not directly gained from development despite also helping to deal with ills in the society like suicide and offering counselling,” Masara said. Masara tabled the Bill in parliament on May 17 seeking to change the National Government CDF (amendment) Bill of 2019 section 25 part 3 and 4 which restrict religious activities to be funded. “Funds provided under this Act shall not be used for purposes of supporting political bodies or political activities or supporting religious bodies or religious activities,” section 25 (3) states. The amendment seeks to delete the words, “or for supporting religious bodies or religious activities,” in the section and move to sub-section 4 and delete the words “notwithstanding the provision of subsection (3).” Under the current law, CDF may identify a religious organisation as a specialised agency and only support sports activities, which also takes two per cent of the total funds. To authorise the use new sub-section will be inserted: “Religious activities may be considered as development projects for purpose of this act provided that the allocation to such activities does not exceed two per cent of the total allocation of the constituency in that financial year,” the bill states. There have been calls by churches to question huge donations given in church. The Catholic Church and Anglican Church of Kenya have banned politicians from addressing faithful during services.