President Uhuru Kenyatta will on December 9 take over as the next president of the African, Caribbean and Pacific Group of states for the next three years. Uhuru will take charge of the leadership of ACP as heads of state and government convene in Nairobi on December 9-10 for the group's ninth summit. The host country takes over the presidency for three years. The meeting is themed “A Transformed ACP: Committed to Multilateralism” and will be preceded by ministerial sessions from December 6-8 at the KICC. ACP secretary general Patrick  Gomes said the summit will have a Nairobi Declaration that will focus on three sub-themes: Global governance in regards to peace, openness, transparency and accountability to the people; climate change and intra-ACP cooperation. He spoke on Thursday at the Ministry of  Foreign Affairs in Nairobi. Gomes acknowledged Kenya’s efforts in building bridges, which he said is remarkable. “It is about understanding governance that is not about partisanship and fragmentation of society. Having a society that is harmonious with a common vision and realising the potential of everyone,” Gomes said. He also acknowledged Kenya’s efforts in peacekeeping across the world. In regards to security and terrorism along Kenya’s coast, Gomes said they are aware, in former UN Secretary General Kofi Annan’s words, that there can't be long-term security without development. To this end, he said, the summit will look into ways of reducing, preventing and overcoming terrorism and insecurity to enhance development by also looking into socioeconomic and cultural issues. Foreign Affairs PS Macharia Kamau said Kenya is honoured by the unanimous decision by the ACP Secretariat to choose Kenya as the host and retaliated the country’s commitment to ACP goals. ACP Group's main goals centre around sustainable development and integration of member states into the global economy; implementation of the ACP-EU Partnership Agreements; consolidation of unity and solidarity among member states and establishing and consolidating peace and stability in a free and democratic society. Kamau said 16 heads of state and government, four first ladies, a vice president and 28 ministers (21 Foreign ministers) have confirmed attendance. On his part, Planning PS Torome Saitoti said ACP Secretariat selected Kenya to host the ninth ACP Summit because of its capacity of conference infrastructure, prior relevant experience, financing capacity as well as regional rotation. Central Africa region hosted the seventh Summit in 2012 in Equatorial Guinea, while the eighth summit was held in Papua, New Guinea. Saitoti noted that the summit will provide leaders from the 79-member ACP Group a platform through which member states benefit from the European Union support — market access and development assistance —under the ACP-EU Partnership. When he met a delegation of ACP-EU in April last year, President Kenyatta emphasised the need for the African, Caribbean and Pacific group of countries to be accorded increased access to the EU market. Uhuru said such arrangements like the Economic Partnership Agreements (EPAs) should recognise each country’s level of development so that no country feels disadvantaged. At least 1.500 delegates are expected.