There will be no time for Gor Mahia and Bandari to wallow in self-pity after their elimination from the CAF Confederation Cup as they take to the field this afternoon to resume their domestic pursuits of the Kenyan Premier League title. Gor were eliminated DC Motema Pembe following a 2-1 aggregate score despite taking the lead in the return leg clash in DR Congo on Sunday and now face Mathare United in a crucial encounter today. In seeking redemption, Bandari face a Western Stima side, who are bubbling with confidence after their coach, Salim Babu was awarded the August/September Sports Journalists Association of Kenya/Fidelity Insurance coach of the month. Steven Polack's charges will need no motivation to bounce back from their weekend setback when they seek to reclaim top spot in the standings. Gor will, however, not have it easy against a side that has caused them plenty of problems down the years. Like Gor, the Slum Boys are yet to lose a match but have been undermined by five stalemates, which leave them ninth on the log with 11 points. In fact, Mathare drew their last two matches including last Friday's goalless draw against Posta Rangers, an outcome that left coach Salim Ali regretting his side's lack of a killer instinct. “We had chances, plenty of them, to win against Rangers but we could not quite do it at the end,” Salim noted on the clubs portal after the game. “We have been too inconsistent and it is disappointing but we take the point and move on." Youngster Daniel Otieno, who made his first start for against Posta will likely bag another starting berth after impressing in the draw with Posta. Otieno earned his place in the team to ease the goal-scoring burden on veterans Kevin Kimani and Clifford Alwanga. Mathare have scored seven goals in as many matches, something that Salim desperately wants to change. Gor will call back Clifton Miheso and Francis Afiriye, both of whom did not take part in the duel against Motema, while defender Charles Momanyi is also likely to return to the starting line up. In Kisumu, Babu will hope to continue with his impressive start to the campaign against a wounded Bandari side. “The game against Bandari is not easy but we have prepared well. We have had enough time to prepare for the game and we don't have any injury worries. My target remains going unbeaten for the whole season,” said Babu. Babu added that his target this season is not to win the Premier League but finish in a top-five position.