Some Jubilee party operatives are grossly miffed by their Party leader -President Uhuru Kenyatta laughing his head off when his home was being berated and derided by National Assembly Minority Whip Junet Mohamed during the BBI report unveiling at the Bomas of Kenya. Some have concluded that the body language of the two leaders, not their spoken word, was the clearest signal that Jubilee marriage is on the rocks. Deputy President looked sad and in deep thought as his boss laughed off the moment. Unhappy with the arrangement of the Bomas meeting, some leaders allied to Tanga Tanga  now say it was not a state function but an ODM  National Delegates conference. Corridors has learnt of a cartel working day and night to kick out an MD in the Ministry of Transport is an intricate network of highly-placed government officials with deep links with elements in the investigative agencies who are at their beck and call. A team of professionals within the investigative ranks is however concerned that the convoluted narrative being churned out by their nemesis might backfire and cause untold shame or lead to sacking. In the well choreographed scheme couched in conjecture, facts have been badly twisted in order to implicate targeted individuals. The architect of the doctored reports aimed at demonizing targeted officers at institution and especially the MD is gloating all over town that it’s a matter of days before his preferred boss takes over and that once that happens, his life will never be the same again. You may be aware by now of the protest Senate Majority Leader and Elgeiyo Marakwet senator Kipchumba Murkomen staged at the Bomas of Kenya during the unveiling of the BBI report. Murkomen was unhappy with what he said was skewed list of people who talked in the event. Now,this is what you need to know: A Chief Administrative Secretary is among those who could not resist the temptation to shout down Murkomen. The government official could be seen rearing to charge towards the senator who dared the hecklers who had joined the CAS in telling him to take his seat. *** Who is this governor who mistreats his aides? On Wednesday, two of them who were walking out of a backstreet hotel in Nairobi’s River Road, could be overheard lamenting that every time they are assigned to accompany the county boss for functions outside the county, they will not only have to struggle looking for accommodation in areas they can afford but they are also kept waiting for long hours without food or even drinking water as governor pander a four course meal which is washed down with European wine.