Kenyan strikers will need to pull up their socks if they are to be considered for the national team assignments, Harambee Stars coach Francis Kimanzi has suggested. Kimanzi's hand was forced into recalling John Avire into the squad ahead of next weeks twin 2021 African Cup of Nations qualifiers against Egypt and Togo as few strikers had shone for their clubs. “I have been in constant communication with Avire's teams. Even though he has not been playing, the information I get from him and his team is that he is in a good condition, otherwise, I would not even have considered him,” revealed  Kimanzi. The former Mathare United Kenyan Premier League title-winning coach alluded to poor form from Kenyan forwards as the reason why he opted for Avire, who is embroiled in a transfer tussle pitting Sofapaka and his Egyptian suitors, Tanta. This has made him not feature for either after Fifa's intervention. “Who would I have called up? posed Kimanzi. "Avire has experience and I hope if he plays for us, Fifa can rethink their stance and let the player resume his club career.” In-form AFC Leopards striker John Makwata, who leads the top-flight scoring chart with five goals has been recalled into the national team. Ulinzi Stars Enosh Ochieng, the top marksman last season and who was in the squad for Stars' last friendly encounter against Mozambique was an option for Kimanzi, but he is nursing an injury. Avire who was part of the Kenyan team to the African Cup of Nations in Egypt in July will compliment Michael Olunga in the attack. Jesse Were has been Olunga's chief assistant in the striking position for the better part of the last three years but he has struggled to replicate his Zesco United form with the national team. Meanwhile, Yanga goalkeeper Farouk Shikalo who did not cover himself in glory in last month's loss to the Mambas was omitted from the team. Kimanzi said they had made that decision with his fellow coaches. “We consulted as the technical bench and decided not to include him in this squad,” Kimanzi said curtly. Stars go into non-residential camp today ahead of their clash against Egypt on November 14, in Cairo and Togo on November 19,  at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani.