ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi has hinted at a possible alliance in the lead up to the 2022 presidential race. Mudavadi said he was not perturbed that “political confidence tricksters” who have littered the political field, have ordered a wreath for the National Super Alliance (Nasa). “Nasa may face turbulent times but I believe the people-based ideals for which I formed it will find ventilation in another formidable force where there is political hygiene,” he said. The former Sabatia MP spoke during the funeral of his neighbour at Mululu village on Saturday. He said that the political tricksters always derail attempts to mature the country’s democracy since they scared of decency and honesty in politics. Mudavadi formed Nasa in the run up to the 2017 general as a unifying vehicle for the opposition to take on the Jubilee party. The unity imploded after the handshake between ODM leader Raila Odinga and President Uhuru Kenyatta. Mudavadi said that he was unmoved by Raila’s manoeuvre that isolated him. “I wasn't isolated when I formed Nasa nor do I feel isolated today.  I don't lose sleep over that. Remember it is always the one feeling cold who seeks shelter in the warmth of the armpits of others,” he said. He said that ANC already voiced its disquiet on the lack of inclusivity in the formation of the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) task force, expected to hand over its report to President Uhuru Kenyatta on Tuesday. Mudavadi termed the current push by a section of politicians for Kenyans to support the BBI recommendations as speculation, guesswork and prejudiced gerrymandering. “We'll wait until the report is out. We'll then analyse and take an informed position in the best interests of Kenya,” he said. He said that there are a handful of wayward “passengers” on board ANC trying to create mischief. “They're drunk with a false sense of self-importance and invincibility,” he said. He was referring to threats by Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala to quit the party after he was suspended for openly supporting ODM candidate Imran Okoth for the November 7 Kibra by-election. Malala said that he was ready to face the party in a by election in Kakamega on a different ticket and retain the seat. “There are rules and no exceptions for passengers on a plane. Their unruly conduct cannot be let to endanger the lives of other innocent passengers,” he said.