The prominent role played by former Thika Town MP Alice Ng’ang'a during a service attended by Deputy President William Ruto at the African Independent Pentecostal Church of Africa in Kiambu county on Sunday is said to have rattled a Chief Administrative Secretary. The CAS, it is said, used propaganda to block Ng'anga from getting a government job. Those in the know say the government official told Jubilee bosses all manner of manufactured gossip about the former legislator. Now the CAS, who is said to have been following the DP’s function live on TV, is so upset. Ng’ang'a may soon be the darling of the bosses. Detectives are monitoring the business dealings of a principal secretary who is said to be using his position to influence tenders to favour his firm. A recent case is where he used his position to ensure that the procurement department in his ministry awarded his company a deal to provide security services to all parastatals and other installations under the ministry with its main office in Nairobi’s Community area. Businessmen in the private security sector are concerned that the PS’s action amount to a conflict of interest. They worry that in future it might not be easy to deal with the ministry as the man is said to be so determined to get all tenders. Three Cabinet secretaries who have long thought they were the blue-eyed men of the system are unsettled. Reason? President Uhuru Kenyatta has of late been making reference to the good work being done by another CS whom they thought was a marked man. The three wrongly believed it was only a matter of time before the CS would be kicked out of Cabinet. A mole who is well-versed with the happenings says the three are no longer at ease. It's whispered that they have been working hard to establish why the CS has all of a sudden become Uhuru’s favourite. A Nairobi county assembly official is a man under siege. Why? The man reportedly pocketed Sh5 million in a week after the members of the county assembly visited Mombasa. The issue has raised audit queries and our moles at City Hall are wondering how the official made 10 trips to and from Mombasa on the same day to claim the large allowance. The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission might want to investigate junior officers at City Hall over the matter.