Taita Taveta County Assembly on Tuesday debated and passed the county’s 2019/2020 financial year budget after over a four-month stalemate. The MCAs have been in a standoff with Governor Granton Samboja after he failed to ascent to the budget in June. In the Sh5.7 billion supplementary budget, the Health and Education departments have been allocated the biggest chunk of the county share. Sh2.2 billion has been set aside for development while Sh3.5 billion has been allocated for recurrent. The development budget was increased to 38 per cent from the previous year's 31 per cent. According to Budget and Appropriations Committee Chairman, Godwin Kilele the Health department shall receive a total of Sh250 million for the rehabilitation of health facilities. “A total of Sh100 million has been allocated for the Moi County Referral Hospital while Wesu hospital, Mwatate hospital, Wundanyi hospital and Taveta subcounty hospital shall receive Sh50 million each,” Kilele said. He revealed that an extra Sh200 million had been allocated for procurement of drugs, health equipment and payment a huge debt owned by Kenya Medical Supplies Agency (Kemsa). The county owes Kemsa at least Sh70 million. Kilele said all rural health facilities shall be rehabilitated for better health services. The county projects to collect at least Sh300 million in revenue collection in the 2019/2020 financial year an increase from Sh203 million collected in 2017/2018 financial year. County bursaries and the governor’s scholarships have been apportioned Sh250 million. “This budget is totally focusing on impacting the lives of residents. We have increased the allocation for education from Sh97 million to Sh137 million to ensure that our children go to school. The governor’s scholarship programme funds shall also be allocated to students from vulnerable backgrounds,” the Sagalla MCA said. A total of Sh38 million was also allocated in the ward special projects. The amount was reduced from the disputed Sh41.6 million that sparked standoff between the Assembly and executive. Initially, Governor Samboja had pointed out that the wards allocation was irregular and that it should be consolidated to implement a major project. However, majority leader Jason Tuja said the money for ward special projects had been reduced by Sh10million and added to the health budget. “We have nothing to contest because the money has been rightfully allocated in another deserving department. But it should be put on record that the special ward projects are not implemented by MCAs as it has been previously alleged,” he said. Tuja revealed that the passing of the budget shall be a greenlight in solving the standoff between the warring factions. The MCAs are expected to finally pass the budget in the Tuesday’s afternoon special sitting before being sent to governor Samboja for ascending. Tuja further said at least Sh 149million has been set aside to pay contractor’s pending bill.