Nandi Governor Stephen Sang’s four new executives took charge on Monday, replacing those linked with financial improprieties. The new executives were vetted and approved by the Nandi County Assembly They include Drice Rono for Transport and Infrastructure, Philemon Buret for Lands and Environment, Grace Sugut for Education and Francis Sang for County Secretary. Buret took over the Lands docket where Dr Kiplimo Lagat has been the acting executive. A month ago Sang said two executives — Hillary Koech (Transport ) and Stanley Baliach (Lands and Environment) — resigned. The governor sacked Education executive Valentine Chumo. The three had earlier been suspended over claims of corruption following the disappearance of money, tyres worth millions of shillings and material meant for construction of ECD classes. The sacking sparked a row with MCAs who claimed the governor was protecting some of those mentioned in corruption cases. The governor reassigned a number of chief officers. Solomon Mang’ira moved to Lands, Sally Kemboi to Water and Sanitation, Phillip Towett went to Administration and Public Service, Paul Lagat moved to Health while Scolastica Tuwei went to Social Welfare. The county boss also nominated five people to the County Public Service Board. They are Ezekiel Kiplimo, Arusei Eliseba, Daniel Mwogoi, Jacob Sisey and Irene Choge. They have also been approved and started work. Some MCAs said Sang had failed to act on all those mentioned in a report by an ad hoc committee that investigated the graft allegations. The committee had recommended sacking of 20 staff including the three executives. Sang has directed the new executives to take their work seriously, saying he would sack anyone for laxity or corruption. "Our mandate is clear as public servants and all those who work under me have to discharge their duties with dedication so we deliver to the people of Nandi what they rightly deserve," Sang said. The governor has termed as nonsense the claims by Senator Samson Cherargei that he had misused more than Sh10 million in foreign trips that did not benefit the county. (Edited by V. Graham)