Kenya hopes to reduce stunting rates to 14.5 per cent by 2030, President Uhuru Kenyatta has said. Stunting refers to the impaired growth and development that children experience from poor nutrition, repeated infection and inadequate psycho-social stimulation. A report released on Thursday shows that despite Kenya having made progress in reducing stunting in children from a high of 33 per cent in 1994 to 26 per cent in 2014, stunting rates are still high. The study says stunting still affects one in every four children under five years in Kenya. The Cost of Hunger in Africa (COHA) Kenya Study says the cost of child undernutrition to the country’s economy is Sh373.9 billion. This represents a loss of 6.9 per cent of the Gross Domestic Product as at 2014. “Children under the age of five who suffer from stunting, wasting and micronutrient deficiency are the most visible victims of malnutrition,” the President said in a speech read on his behalf by Health CS Sicily Kariuki. A UN report published in July put the number of undernourished Kenyans at 14.6 million. Statistics show that malnutrition is unacceptably high in Africa, with 58 million or 36 per cent of children under the age of five chronically undernourished (suffering from stunting) and 13 million or 8.5 per cent of children acutely undernourished(suffering from wasting). Last year, the number of under fives affected by wasting in Kenya was 300,000 and 1.8 million affected by stunting. The President noted that the challenges associated with malnutrition have led to the need for focus and emphasis on nutrition as part of the development effort in the World. “Child undernutrition and in particular stunting in children has a negative impact on productivity at a much later stage in life,” he said. “The loss to our GDP is an opportunity lost forever as the amount is equivalent to the revenue allocated to 47 County Governments in Kenya in 2019-20 financial year.” Kenya has made significant progress in reducing the prevalence of stunting, underweight and wasting from 35 per cent, 16 per cent and seven per cent in 2009 to 26 per cent, 11 per cent and four per cent in 2014. Interventions such as maternal nutrition and education, vitamin and mineral supplementation to mothers and children, private sector involvement and mandatory fortification of wheat and maize flour with multiple micro-nutrients have led to improved nutrition in Kenya. 