Accounting officers with adverse audit opinions should be barred from transacting any business on behalf of the government until they are cleared by the Auditor General. The Public Accounts Committee, led by Opiyo Wandayi, has asked the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission and the office of the DPP to investigate those behind misuse of public funds. The lawmakers, in a 962-page report on the audited accounts for financial year 2016-17, want administrative action taken against officers with disclaimer of opinion. If the report is adopted by Parliament, Principal Secretaries and other holders of authority to incur expenditure will be in trouble over under-reported revenue, stalled projects, lack of asset registers and irregular payment for goods. “Accounting officers who incurred irregular payment for goods and services be investigated and charged if found culpable of financial misconduct,” the report reads. Particularly, PAC wants the DPP to probe the tender committee behind the purchase of sanitary towels for distribution to primary schools by the Education ministry. It has also invited an EACC probe on Prison bosses whom procured defective bulletproof jackets and vests for wardens. “The committee could not ascertain value for money in the procurement of the bulletproof jackets. The matter remains unresolved,” the MPs say. Wandayi’s committee also wants the Natural Resources and Wildlife PS who served in that financial year barred from managing public finances. This followed findings that the official expended Sh230 million for wildlife compensation without the Treasury and National Assembly’s approval. On irregular payments, MPs want action taken against officers at Pensions department for paying Sh519 million to two deceased beneficiaries, and the Health ministry over the Sh1 billion portable clinics. PAC further wants the Public Finance Management Act amended so that Parliament approves the list of persons designated as accounting officers. “The issuance of disclaimer of opinion amounts to serious or persistent material breach of the law. The National Treasury CS should take administrative action against all the officers,” the report reads. The audit followed a review of 129 accounts, of which 46 were clean, 58 with qualified opinion, 13 with adverse and 11 with disclaimer of opinion. The accounts of the Lands ministry, Planning department, National Youth Service, Strategic Grain Reserve, National Government Affirmative Action Fund, Prison Industries Revolving Fund have been flagged. Others are the Stores and Service Fund, Agricultural Information Resource Centre Revolving Fund, Government Clearing Agency Fund, Kenya Local Loans Support Fund and Land Settlement Fund Trustees. The entities have failed to explain expenditure of Sh34 billion during the year under review even as MPs flagged cases of non-remittance of collected revenues of Sh5 billion. In the matter of prison bosses, MPs want the EACC to probe officers behind the undelivered Sh43.2 million bulletproof jackets and vests. Correctional Services audit queries on stalled projects, procurement of firewood, invalid pending bills as well as staff housing projects are yet to be cleared. The Interior ministry is equally not off the hook over the undeclared Sh266 million collected from issuance of DCI clearance certificates. Focus now shifts to the Postal Corporation of Kenya which the ministry accused of not remitting revenue collected through Huduma Centres – even for other ministries. “The committee observed that the above non-remittance by Postal Cooperation cuts across many state departments and requires a holistic approach by the Cabinet,” the report states. In what may spell doom to the struggling Posta Kenya’s key revenue source, PAC wants the entity discontinued from collecting revenue on behalf of ministries. The committee has also flagged an under-expenditure of Sh204 billion amid calls for a review of the Ifmis infrastructure. “The National Treasury should appoint an independent consultant to review the suitability of the IFMIS in budget execution and reporting to ensure that it provides an efficient financial management.” Wandayi’s team also wants prosecution of Agriculture ministry officers involved in the payment of Sh45 million for undelivered 17,060 bags of 50kg subsidized fertilizer. PAC has recommended the prosecution of officers at Special Programmes who were involved in the stalled Wajir Sewerage project over an overpayment of Sh16.7 million. “The DPP should investigate the whole project and if any breach of law is identified, the people involved in the procurement and management of the project should be prosecuted,” the committee resolved. The Committee did not spare the clerk of National Assembly whom they want surcharged for failing to recover Sh393 million outstanding imprest.