The annual National Council on Administration of Justice conference kicked off in Naivasha amid concern over a number of invited guests who skipped the event. Of all the invited key speakers, only CJ David Maraga and Commissioner General of Prisons Wycliffe Ogalo attended. There were conflicting reports about the absence of  Interior CS Fred Matiang’i who was supposed to be the chief guest at the conference held at Great Rift Valley Lodge. Other key invitees who failed to attend were DPP Noordin Haji, DCI George Kinoti, Inspector General of Police Hilary Mutyambai and EACC boss Twalib Mbarak. CJ Maraga downplayed the nonattendance of the guests, noting that they expected those present to come up with conclusive deliberations. “I won’t go into the reasons as to why they failed to come but the present officers are capable and we expect a very productive meeting,” he said on been questioned by the press before walking away. Addressing the workshop, Maraga said the Judiciary was keen to work with other stakeholders to make sure the criminal justice system was efficient. “We shall automate the system of the anti-corruption courts so that we can monitor the stages and progress made in these graft cases,” he said. He noted that the major challenge Judiciary faced was a backlog of cases against a rise in the number cases been filed every day. “To address the rising number of graft cases, we have increased the number of magistrates handling corruption cases from three to 10 in Nairobi,” he said. The CJ added that Judiciary was fully behind the plea-bargaining programme fronted by the office of the DPP to help address the backlog. “We are in the process of opening courts in Kamiti and Shimo La Tewa prisons to deal with dangerous criminals like those charged with terrorism,” he said. The director of Assets Recovery Agency Muthoni Kimani said recent reforms in the justice system had seen a new DPP, DCI and EACC chief in office. Muthoni, who represented the AG, said plans were under way to open the victims support office and construct a new mental hospital as services at Mathare Hospital were currently overstretched. “We are working with the UK, Italy, Switzerland and the UAE so that the proceeds of corruption hidden in their countries can be returned to Kenya,” she said. Prisons Commissioner General Ogalo said congestion was the main challenge currently facing penal institutions. “We are committed to reforming inmates but currently we have an excess of over 23,900 inmates in our prisons against limited manpower and facilities,” Ogalo said.