The government says it has sealed all loopholes for cheating in the ongoing KCSE examinations. Education CS George Magoha said the state had discovered the strategies mostly used by those involved in examinations malpractices. They include usage of mobile phones, impersonation, leakage of exam papers, teachers writing answers on papers and passing them to candidates and centre managers compromising those involved in the process including security personnel. “We have so far replaced 10 examination officials over examinations malpractices. This is a small number compared to the previous years,” Magoha said. The CS addressed the press when he visited St Georges Girls High School in Nairobi for inspection on Friday. He was accompanied by Education PS Belio Kipsang. He cited instances where those involved in the KCSE examinations as supervisors, invigilators, centre managers, candidates or state officials had been arrested over flaws in the process. “A teacher wrote answers during Chemistry practicals at an examination centre in Wajia today. He was arrested and forwarded to relevant government agencies,” Magoha said. He said although Wajir, Migori, Homa Bay and Kisii counties had been put on the spot over examinations malpractices, cases had generally reduced. Magoha said most of the cases had been reported in private examination centres as opposed to public ones. He said the government will have to re-look at the practice of private students taking examinations . The CS also cited an incident where 26 candidates sitting their KCSE examinations at St Teresa Boys Primary School in Nairobi’s Starehe subcounty were on Wednesday arrested for suspected cheating. Security officers in the area confiscated 35 mobile phones suspected to have been used to cheat. The centre has 154 private candidates sitting for the examinations. “I thank everybody who has carried their tasks with dignity and professionalism to achieve credible examinations,” the CS said. He said police officers across the country are assisting in ensuring credible KCSE exams’ delivery. Magoha said two police constables noted that some of the candidates sitting for the examinations in Kisii were too old for the test. This led to the arrest of eleven people who had impersonated candidates. “I will urge the Presidency to promote them in the service,” he said. The CS cautioned parents against paying money to cons for their children to be exposed to the examinations prior to sitting.