Away from the woes that follow the fallout in the National Super Alliance, Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka is a man under siege back at home. This follows the onslaught by governors Charity Ngilu (Kitui), Kivutha Kibwana (Makueni), and Alfred Mutua (Machakos) – all bidding to undo his influence in the region. The three have joined ODM leader Raila Odinga in a new pact, indicating they are seeking to occupy the seat the former Vice President held in the AU envoy’s circles. They were part of the ‘handshake campaign team’ that drummed support for Bernard Imran Okoth, the ODM candidate in the Kibra by-election. At the meeting, Kibwana gave the greatest hint they would work with Raila in the latter’s bid for the Building Bridges Initiative, which is deemed a precursor for the 2022 polls. “We are ready to walk with Raila on this path. We will do what it takes to ensure the handshake succeeds. Anything outside the handshake should be treated with the contempt it deserves,” Kibwana said. Kalonzo was Raila’s running mate in 2017 but their camaraderie was punctured after the Wiper boss skipped the January 30 oathing at Uhuru Park. The governors’ plan to oust him started with them forming a regional economic bloc christened Sekeb, a platform their close allies say has helped discredit the former VP’s development record. Interviews with residents exposed a population that is split but find it easy to point out that they have more to say for devolution compared with what some of "their longest-serving leaders have accomplished". Locals see Kalonzo as a leader whose being close to the powers that be has been about a self-centred benefit than the community’s. “What can we say of a leader whose people walk over 28km in search of water with donkeys yet he has been in the presidency?” an adviser to the "Kamba Three" told the Star in confidence. The source said the wanting development record, poor strategy, and the latest incident where the Wiper boss begged Uhuru for ‘menial jobs’ is Kalonzo’s undoing. “We are pretty sure that even if he reaches an agreement with Deputy President William Ruto for 2022, the interest will still be personal,” the strategist said. Their confidence is in the belief the three governors are sellable owing to the fruits of devolution hailed by their supporters. For Ngilu, the lot says she stands a chance to lead the team with her strong backing at the grassroots – seen as a leader of the people. She is hailed for water projects – some supplied to grass-thatched houses, medical colleges she commissioned while Health minister and now devolution gains. Mutua banks on the good word residents have given him over the ‘chap chap’ tarmac roads. He has also earned accolades for water projects and an ambulance service plan where locals simple make calls whenever they have medical emergencies. Kibwana, the observers said, has earned his place as a development guru - though there are murmurs that he has not done well in road upgrades. He is, however, seen as a star with his healthcare plan where elderly people above 60 years access free medical care at the various county hospitals. Their union has cast doubt on Kalonzo’s ability to use Ukambani vote as a bargaining chip for building alliances. KALONZO'S SAY Kalonzo’s allies have vehemently dismissed the assertions by the three governors, saying the lot could only be pushing their luck after ‘a loose promise’. Several Wiper MPs defended their party leader saying it would be difficult to dislodge him grip from Ukambani politics. Jessica Mbalu (Kibwezi East), Makali Mulu (Kitui Central), and Dan Maanzo (Makueni) said the trio seem to be blinded by the fact they have steered devolution. They exuded confidence that Kalonzo still commands a huge following in the region "having carried the flag of the Kambas, the Eastern region, and for Kenyans". Mbalu criticised the trio, saying they could have done better than try to “finish someone or trying to cut others while on their way up”. She asked the governors to go slow and borrow from other communities whose leaders – Daniel Moi, Mwai Kibaki, Uhuru Kenyatta, Raila Odinga, and William Ruto – are still commanding a lot of respect from their kins. Mbalu warned that the lot could be too sure but pointed out they should consider the need to go slow than take advantage of Kalonzo’s situation to take his position by force. “We must learn to respect those who are in leadership so that when you get there, you also get treated well…We may know how to run but the leaders who went ahead of us on the path definitely know the way,” she said. On whether there are plans by Wiper to team up with Ruto in 2022, she said there is still time. “You never know what people have in the works but our plan is for the good of the country,” the MP said. Mulu said the governors need no reminder that those who tried to outdo Kalonzo in the region suffered grave consequences. “I can tell you for sure that this may not be the time for them to take such a direction. They are likely to suffer,” the lawmaker told the Star on the phone. He dismissed the latest dalliance between the three governors and Raila – and by extension, the government, saying it is a hunt for jobs. “If they are using this as a strategy to get jobs after the end of their terms, they should do so without dividing the community. We look like we are not talking from the same script…in terms of national rating politically. The community will always try to defend any attempts to divide it,” Mulu said. “This is not the first time that people have been promised things. They seem to have been told they’d get this and that but we are telling them we are firmly behind the Wiper leader.” He echoed Mbalu’s sentiments on what next for the region saying, “Everybody wants the leadership of this country. So, we will be talking to everybody who is serious to support us realize this desire.” “We are not sleeping. We are looking for partners to help us shore up our numbers. A number of things will be sorted in due course.” Maanzo said the bid by the leaders will come to naught considering the number of elected MPs and MCAs backing their bid. “The political strength of the three governors is the number of their elected MCAs or MP. None of them have much. From this, Kalonzo Musyoka is the de facto and ipso facto leader of the Kamba nation,” the Makueni MP said.