Garissa Governor Ali Korane on Monday sought to quell a fiery temper that flared among local politicians and those from the neighbouring Tana River county. A war of words had pitted Garissa politicians and residents against their Tana River counterparts and stoked resentment at the weekend. The counties share a natural resource boundary — River Tana. Some Tana River natives have settled across the river in Garissa county in areas such as Naningi, Bura, Mansabubu, Abaqdera, Korakora and Saka. The settlements have been the bone of contention, with leaders from the two counties trading accusations of incitement and aggression. Last week, Korane toured Bura East in Fafi subcounty where he hit out at his Tana River counterpart for inciting communities by proposing development projects on the Garissa side. On Monday, he revisited the issue. This time, however, his remarks were reconciliatory. He appealed to leaders to stop inciting their communities. Korane urged residents from Tana River who have settled in the area to remain calm and ignore utterances that might breach the peace they have enjoyed over the years together. Fafi MP Abdikadir Osman had also waded in and cautioned against encroachment. The sentiment prompted outrage among Tana River residents. On Saturday, hundreds of them protested against Osman and accused him of inciting Garissa people against them. But Osman swiftly took to his Facebook page to defend his remarks, saying, "It is my cardinal responsibility to represent my people at all times, especially on issues infringing on their rights. “All those saying I should be arrested and charged are doing so out of ignorance.  All I said was within the purview of my representative role, which I exercise without fear and at all times. "I'm more than willing and always ready to go at any length to defend my people's inalienable rights. The [Tana River] governor should not fantasise taking away tracts of land we've lived on for more than 170 years and should abandon that delusion." The lawmaker said he was "ready to appear before any court, commission or tribunal to further discuss substantive issues relating to Garissa-Tana border strip". (Edited by F'Orieny)