 Cardiologists have raised concerns after a free screening service for heart diseases in Garissa showed 100 per cent prevalence. Addressing reporters in Garissa town on Sunday, Dr Mzee Ngunga said all the four common cases of heart diseases were diagnosed.  They include cardiomyopathy which is characterised by weak heart muscles and cause by high cholesterol. Ischemic heart disease, congenital heart disease (hole in the heart) caused by poor antenatal care and valvular heart disease were also found. The cardiologist were from the Aga Khan University Hospital in Nairobi. Ngunga led the team of 105 doctors and nurses who were offering the free screening and treatment to celebrate the hospital’s 60th anniversary. He urged residents to go for regular checkups, saying heart conditions among children can easily be treated. “Some of these diseases that can be easily treated among the children become more complicated with age. That is why we are recommending early screening among children because they can be corrected for them to live fruitful lives afterwards,” Ngunga said. “I must also emphasise is that all heart conditions are treatable with both medication and corrective surgery once detected early.” Garissa Health executive Ahmednasir Omar lauded the Aga Khan University Hospital for choosing the county to offer the free screening and treatment clinic. "The initiative will allow residents to access the treatment which is normally out of the reach of many Kenyans," Omar said. Omar asked residents to take advantage of the three-day free clinic to get screened. He said an active and healthy lifestyle was one of the surest ways of keeping one out of the risk of contracting lifestyle diseases like diabetes, hypertension, obesity and cardiovascular diseases. "The increasing incidents of heart diseases can be attributed to poor lifestyles, changing food habits and prevalence of obesity. This day serves as a stark reminder to combating the epidemic through a multi-pronged approach that includes prevention, raising awareness, diagnosis and treatment." The executive said the county will continue working closely with the Aga Khan University Hospital to extend similar services to all its subcounties.  edited by peter obuya