Good morning, Governor Mike Sonko is expected at the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission today for allegedly giving false information to vie for the gubernatorial seat in 2017. An October 28 letter from EACC chief executive officer Twalib Mbarak says that the anti-graft agency is investigating allegations that Sonko provided false information to the anti-graft agency in his self-declaration form dated March 9, 2017. Here are the other stories making headlines in the Star this morning. President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto's strongholds control nearly half of Kenya's 47.6 million population, significantly shaping the battle for numbers in 2022. The 2019 Census released on Monday provides the clearest picture of all regions' numbers that will influence the 2022 showdown. Politicians know where they must hunt for votes. Two powerful Cabinet Secretaries have been scheming to remove Chief Justice David Maraga. The two, known to be close to President Uhuru Kenyatta, have held several meetings to discuss Maraga and the Judiciary. In an unprecedented media conference, the Chief Justice yesterday poured out in public his frustrations, revealing that some CSs and PSs are after him. ODM has sued the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission for failing to supply and make available the complete voter register for Kibra constituency. Kibra voters are due to participate in a by-election scheduled for Thursday. They will be electing a new MP following the death of Ken Okoth who succumbed to cancer in July. But through lawyer Jackson Awele, the Orange party claims that from the incomplete register of voters, they have been able to sample out names of persons, who, though eligible and previously registered to vote, are missing from the register under unclear circumstances. The KCSE exam started on Monday on a tragic note after the principal of a Naivasha school died and two others injured in an accident on their way to collect the papers. Mary Wanjiru Macharia, the principal of Reverend Jeremiah Gitau Secondary, was pronounced dead by doctors after the 5am accident. David Kimani and John Kago, the principals of Kiambogo and Mustard Seed secondary schools were admitted with injuries. Belgian Ambassador Nicolas Nihon landed two years ago and today, he will celebrate his third King’s Day in Kenya. He and his wife enjoy very much the weather of Nairobi and the wildlife of Kenya. They appreciate to live in a place where the cultural and ethnic diversity is so rich and feel their son is blessed to grow up in such an environment. In a wide-ranging interview, Amb Nihon explained his country's approach to bilateral relations and what role they are playing in helping Kenya achieve its potential.