The 2019 census results on Northern Kenya population do not add up, National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale has said. Speaking during a press conference on Wednesday, Duale who was flanked by 18 other MPs from the region said the results were false. "You cannot stop the tyranny of numbers. You can not stop human beings walking on the streets. The game is not played in the boardrooms but the bedroom," he said. "Don't think that you can cook numbers.. If you want to sustain your tyranny take it to the bedroom, not the boardroom." Duale said the results are not for the actual remuneration that took place. "If you have too many men who do they marry? Do they marry themselves? We want the raw data and server opened," he added. "Instead, we are certain that the data used was for pre-census mapping. This data is false and not fit for the purpose of use.  Someone wants to create a scenario where some people will be marginalised and take our resources to certain regions," he said. The Garissa Township MP said the census showed negative growth in the population of Mandera and subcounties in the region. "This contradicts the basic rules of a population. It is not reflective of KNBS statistics in 2009 census," he said. "Does it mean that in 10 years, the number has increased with only 80,000?" Duale said it is the Ministry of Treasury and Planning that should conduct the census and not the Interior ministry. "We want to ask CS Ukur Yattani that who was in charge of the census? The Census is the function of the Ministry of planning," he said. According to the recent Census results, President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto's strongholds control nearly half of Kenya's 47.6 million population, significantly shaping the battle for numbers in 2022. The 2019 Census released on Monday provides the clearest picture of all regions' numbers that will influence the 2022 political battle. The Census results show that the Jubilee political bastions of Mt Kenya, Rift Valley and Northeastern have a total of 22.4 million people. With high population numbers, the regions will also have a big share of the billions of shillings allocated to the 47 counties each year. The Coast region has 4.2 million people, Northeastern 2.5 million, Upper Eastern 2.9 million, Nyanza 6.2 million and Western six million people.