Kenya Rugby Union and Damu Pevu Development Society have announced a new partnership to grow the game in the country. The partnership is anchored on KRU’s vision of making rugby a game for all. Through a series of planned activities, the partnership shall support, encourage, promote, advance and entrench the game of rugby throughout primary schools in Kenya. Together, the union and Damu Pevu will work with other stakeholders including government agencies, institutions and partners to promote the identification of talent and development of rugby throughout primary schools. In terms of the partnership, Damu Pevu will spearhead the implementation of the program, which will be anchored on World Rugby training modules. It will also be anchored upon World Rugby’s Get-into-Rugby Programme. By working with Damu Pevu, KRU will tap into a rich technical resource base capable of adding value to the existing structure. KRU shall retain primary responsibility for quality assurance and program oversight, working through the network of Regional Development Officers (RDOs). KRU and Damu Pevu will also collaborate in mobilizing resources for the programme from both public and private sector partners. Commenting on the partnership, KRU chairman Oduor Gangla said they are pleased to launch the partnership with Damu Pevu. " They have a long-standing track record for rugby development in Kenya. Damu Pevu’s efforts have helped rugby become a national sport, bringing joy and pride to this nation in international competitions. KRU cannot execute all the initiatives directly and welcomes similar partnerships with credible institutions that will further the objectives of the Union.” Damu Pevu technical director Michael “Tank” Otieno, a World Rugby Trainer and former Kenya 7s and 15s international player and the head coach said: “We are also excited to partner once more with KRU. We are looking forward to introducing and nurturing rugby in primary schools especially at this time when the focus is on skills in the developing competence-based curriculum.” 