Kenya Simbas will face Cote D' Ivoire and Morocco in next years Rugby Africa championships. The Ivorians qualified for the event after thrashing Rwanda 60-3 in a pre-qualifier last weekend. Paul Odera's charges will open their campaign their Pool 'B' against Morocco on May 30 in Nairobi before travelling to Abidjan to face the Ivorians on June 27. Pool 'A' consists of African champions Namibia, Zambia and the winner of the Madagascar v Nigeria match. Pool 'C' features Uganda, Algeria, Senegal and Mauritius while Pool 'D' has Tunisia, Zimbabwe, Ghana and Botswana. The group winners advance to the semifinals to be played between July and September to be played at a yet to be decided venue. The Simbas will also play the Elgon Cup in two fixtures, against Uganda home and away next year. Meanwhile, KRU are keen to have the team play international test matches against higher-ranked opposition like Germany, Hong Kong, Portugal or Spain in the new year. Director of Rugby Thomas Odundo said matches against European test teams will be played subject to funding in October and November next year. "If we get funding, then we can play top teams at the end of next year. We are hopeful that the new year will bring with it good tidings financially and allow us to accomplish our goal of finding exposure for the 15s side,” said Odundo. The Simbas will start training for the Africa Cup competition in April, upon the completion of the Kenya and Enterprise Cup competitions. Plans are underway to revive the Super Rugby series to act as a feeder to the national team next year. Elsewhere, Menengai Oilers coach Gibson Weru hopes his side can end their three-game losing streak when they face Nondies on Saturday. The Nakuru-based outfit has seen their positive start to the campaign hit a screeching halt with losses to Homeboyz, KCB and Quins. Oilers lie sixth on the log, one point above Nakuru and five behind fifth-placed Stanbic Mwamba. "We’re picking a lot of positives in terms of how we want to play despite the crucial mistakes we have made in our recent matches. There’s also room for improvement in defence," said Weru. "We need to perfect what is working for us while also improving on the areas where we are going wrong.”