The director of Africa Spirits Limited, Geoffrey Kaari, has been charged with evading Sh41 billion tax. Kaari appeared before Nairobi chief magistrate Francis Andayi and denied failing to pay tax, committing fraud in relation to tax and aiding in the commission of tax evasion. The prosecution produced three files on tax evasion amounting to more than Sh41 billion by Africa Spirits and Wow Beverages in Thika. In the first file, the accused is charged with nine counts relating to Sh17 billion tax evasion. Kaari is charged alongside city businessman Humphrey Kariuki, three directors of WoW Beverages Limited and four others from Africa Spirits Limited. The other suspects are Kariuki Gerald (director, WoW Beverages), Peter  Kuria (director, Africa Spirits Ltd) and Robert Murithi (director, WoW Beverages). Sethu Prabhu (assistant production manager, Africa Spirits), Eric Nzomba (driver) and Kepha Gakure (tax manager, Africa Spirits) are also among the accused. The prosecution said between December 31, 2018 and February, Kaari and his co-accused deliberately failed to pay Sh17,782,553,085 to KRA. He was also accused, jointly with others not before the court, of conspiring to defraud the government of Kenya of Sh5,704,858 by failing to pay duty for 80 drums of 250 litres each of ethanol. The offence allegedly occurred on or about January 31, 2019 at the  Africa Spirits Limited and Wow Beverages limited premises in Thika town, Kiambu county. Kari denied the charges. His lawyer, Wilfred Nderitu, pleaded that his client be freed on bond saying he is not a flight risk. "The accused is an officer of this court of 21 years standing and there is no reason that he would fail to attend court once released on bail," Nderitu said. The prosecution did not oppose release on bail but urged the court to grant him similar bail terms of Sh10 million granted to co-directors of the companies. "l have considered the submissions by both parties and since the accused person is an officer of this court I release him on S 5 million bond or a cash bail of Sh2 million," Andayi ruled. Kaari was also ordered to deposit his passport with the court. The case is to be mentioned on January 14, with that of his co-accused. (Edited by V. Graham)