The Kenya Ports Authority have booked themselves a ticket to the 2020 Africa Volleyball Club Championships after winning their second tie of the ongoing national volleyball league playoffs at the Safaricom Indoor Arena on Saturday. KPA garnered their second win of the competitions by beating Kenya Defence Forces' Ulinzi 3-1 (25-17, 22-25, 27-25, 25-30) on Saturday. On Friday evening, the dockers had caged Kenya Prisons with a 3-1 (25-21, 31-29, 29-27, 25- 22) to stay on course. Team captain Sammy Ng'eno credited their good performance during the season and in the playoffs to the immense support and motivation from their employer. The skipper said the management gave them the best environment to prepare for the playoffs and the set their site on the continental showpiece. "We have got nothing to lose. Our target was to secure a slot for the Africa Club Championships and that is already in the bag so tomorrow (Sunday) we won't be under pressure. "But that is not to say it is going to be easy for GSU, we are going for the title. We have been regulars in the playoffs for the last three years where we've been finishing in the third and fourth positions so we are now ripe for the title," said Ng'eno. Strathmore University's opposite hitter Enock Mogeni starred for the porters terrorising the soldiers from both the right and left positions. He said: "KPA has a way of nurturing young players and I am thankful that the team is bringing out the best of me. Given the all the club's interested to have my signature, I feel KPA offers me the opportunity to excel both academically and in the game." On the losing end, veteran setter and team captain Elisha Aliwa rued their unforced errors. He said: "We just didn't coordinate well. We have a young team, most of whom are inexperienced. Tomorrow we fight for the third and forth place." KPA come face-to-face with defending champions General Service Unit in the title decider as former holders Kenya Prisons battle for bronze medal against KDF on Sunday.