A Makueni boda boda rider charged with beating and slashing his pregnant 20-year-old girlfriend with a panga has been denied bail. Appearing before a Makindu court on Thursday, Dominic Bondo, 33, was charged with attempting to murder his estranged girlfriend, Irene Ndinda. The airtime scratch-card seller was six months pregnant with their second child and did not lose the baby in the attack. Bondo denied the charges, asked for bond and was remanded in Manyani Prison. Ndinda's brother Eric Kimeu told the Star in a phone interview the case had been twisted to appear less severe when he and their mother first appeared in court on Wednesday without a lawyer. "On Wednesday the man was to be released on Sh50,000 cash bail on an accusation of assault," he said. The cast was postponed until Thursday. It took the intervention a pro bono lawyer Babu Juma to persuade the court to upgrade the charge to attempted murder. "We (the family) are happy that justice is almost prevailing," Kimeu said. Ndinda barely escaped death in Mbiuni on September 26, after Bondo beat and slashed her all over with a panga, her brother said. He dumped her in a forest but she eventually dragged herself to the side of a road and collapsed,  olice said. Kimeu said she had fled her home because of abuse but returned to collect her belongings. Her boyfriend followed her on his boda boda as she went to her mother's house. Kimeu said he stripped and attacked her. She was spotted by a good Samaritan and rescued by Makueni police officers. A senior police officer in Makueni who asked for anonymity said, "When we rushed to the scene, we found a woman with serious cuts. She was in pain and seemed to be regaining consciousness." "The woman had crawled to the road for help at around noon," the officer said. "She did not have any clothes." Police traced the boda boda which had blood stains and found burnt clothes in his compound. Ndinda's mother, Priscilla Kimeu, describes the sight of her bandaged daughter lying in bed as gruesome. Irene was nursing injuries to her head, face, mouth, hands, arms and legs. "I was shocked when I saw my daughter disfigured to a point where she could not be recognised. Her had been slashed. She was swollen. Her tooth had been removed and she lay in bed in pain," Priscilla said. Ndinda has been discharged and is recuperating at her mother's home in Makueni. To date, she has no use of her hands and won't be selling airtime cards. But she can feel the baby kicking. (Edited by V. Graham)