The Naivasha Dry Port is expected to be completed by the end of December as works on the multi-billion project located off the Mai Mahiu-Narok road started. This comes after the national government started resettling the families displaced by the project on 1,000 acres donated by Kedong Ranch. Naivasha subcounty commissioner Mathioya Mbogo said the road linking the port to the nearby standard gauge railway was nearly complete. Addressing the press after touring the port, Mbogo said the fencing around the 1,000 acres was also complete and electricity had been supplied. “Works on the port are at an advanced stage and tens of local youths have been employed and we expect the Inland Container Depot to be ready by end of this year,” he said. On resettlement, he said around 2,000 persons had been affected by the project adding that plans to resettle the families were ongoing He said the first batch of 51 families would be resettled starting this week after voluneering to move. “This is now government land and we have started resettling all the affected persons so that this capital project can run smoothly,” he said. This came as members of the Kitet-Sission community disowned the ongoing protests by their counterparts who have refused to be resettled on 4,000 acres donated by Kedong. Community secretary Mike Roka said some politicians from Narok and Kajiado were behind the demonstrations which he termed unnecessary. “All the families affected by the dry port have agreed to be resettled after getting 4,000 acres and those opposed to this are outsiders,” he said. Roka said the community fully backed the project adding that politicians should keep away from the resettlement. Community chairman Dopoi Sarite said the community went to court in 2003 and had been fighting with the management of Kedong over their compensation. “After years of court battlea, Kedong agreed to compensate us with 4,000 acres which as community we agreed but some outsiders from other counties now want to ride on this,” he said. Edited by R.Wamochie