A section of legislatures drawn from the Central region are holding a meeting in Embu county to discuss the BBI report. The meeting at the Mountain Breeze Hotel in Embu Town attended by over 50 legislatures is being led by Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri, Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro and Kirinyaga Woman Representative Purity Ngirici. Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria and Embu senator Njeru Ndwiga are also in attendance. Speaking to the press before the start of the indoor meeting Senator Ndwiga and Nyoro said that they were discussing on the report between the lines before making their decision on it. This they said will inform the advise they will give to residence whom they represent. "We shall look into the report and after some hours we promise that there e will be white smoke,” said Ndiwga. The meeting comes amidst debate over the next move as far as the BBI report is concerned. The report was officially launched on Tuesday at the Bomas of Kenya and has already already seen politicians divided on its implementation. ODM leader Raila Odinga has maintained that any discussion on the BBI should centre on a referendum. Raila has further opposed any calls to take the parliamentary route in implementing the proposals, saying the people will vote in a referendum. “The process must be people-owned; it must not be taken to Parliament,” he said. During the launch, President Uhuru Kenyatta asked politicians to give Kenyans an opportunity to read the report well by their own before the next move. Deputy President William Ruto said on Friday whine in Narok that the country is prepared for a referendum as a way to adopt the report if people decides so. Ruto however said the referendum should not be pushed through threats, intimidation and chest thumbing. He said the current political contest on the report are in bad faith depicting sections of politicians to be against each other. Interior CS Fred Matiangi said on Friday during a fundraising ceremony at Gathiruini Secondary school, Kirinyaga that politicians should not divide the country in the name of BBI The function was attended by several leaders including the area governor Ann Waiguru. Prior to the BBI submission, Uhuru held an indoor meeting with leaders from Mt Kenya region at Sagana Lodge in Nyeri. The President promised to tour the entire region after Sagana meeting with the aim of unity and development.