Deputy President William Ruto's allies are "carefully" studying the BBI proposals before taking a stand. While most Rift Valley leaders were guarded on the BBI contents, Nandi Senator Samson Cherargei said on Thursday: “We are reading it carefully to know what it actually contains before we can move on to discuss it along with other Kenyans.” But Cherangany MP Joshua Kuttuny welcomed the document, saying its launch at the Bomas of Kenya on Wednesday had already raised a sense of unity among leaders. “What happened at Bomas was good for the country because at least we saw all the leaders come together. The BBI will provide the way forward for the country,”   Kuttuny said. All his Soy counterpart Caleb Kositany said they are still analysing the document to understand its contents. Moiben MP Sila Tiren said extensive public participation was critical in determining the country’s future. “We should debate the BBI document with soberness as we move forward,” he said. Kuttuny said leaders should set aside their political ambitions and discuss the contents of the document as it provides a strong basis for reforms. “For me, the hybrid system of government proposed in the report is good because Kenyans still want to elect the country’s leader. All other people will be accommodated.” The legislator said it was critical for every Kenyan to get involved in determining how the proposals in the document will be carried forward. “Parliament will play some role but the process should be largely driven by the people and not just the MPs or leaders.” Kuttuny cautioned his Rift Valley colleagues against being politically emotional while debating the BBI document. Community leader Jane Kiptoo said women will study the report before making informed decisions. She welcomed the report as it proposes to improve gender balance in the country. Other leaders in the region said the document as a sound basis to start the process of making changes to the constitution to strengthen areas that require changes so that the country can operate with all Kenyans feeling accommodated. Regional farmers' spokesman Kipkorir Menjo said: “There are very good recommendations on areas like strengthening devolution with extra funding because many Kenyans strongly back devolution.” He said key economic areas like agriculture critical for the country’s stability should be strengthened.  