Did some officials lie to Kisumu Governor Anyang' Nyong'o over millions released by the county government to cater for the burial expenses of the six fallen bouncers? It is rumoured that the while some Sh1.4 million was allegedly dispatched to defray the burial expenses, the county boss was shocked to learn that the money did not actually meet the intended expenses. It is alleged that the governor had been informed that the money was spent in buying coffins and hiring hearses to transport the bodies but later learnt that the information could have been false. This was after Senator It is alleged that the governor had been informed that the money was spent in buying coffins and hiring hearses to transport the bodies but later learnt that the information could have been false. Fred Outa's team informed mourners during the burial that his office had footed all the burial expenses. Nyong'o is said to have ordered his officers to produce all the receipts for every payment made to account for all the money. As if that is not enough, the officers had asked for additional money to clear pending bills that had accrued during the funeral. The games men and women of means play in this town are scripted in the vilest part of hell, if a story reaching Corridors about a tender hitherto awarded by a ministry to a local firm is anything to go by. Sample this: A local firm wins a tender; beats an international firm hands down. Then in a twisted argument bearing all the hallmarks of trickery and greed by the high and mighty, the winning firm is serially frustrated through non-payment for two years, ostensibly to cause it to fail. Then the bombshell! A letter from the ministry communicates the termination of the contract through a document ‘leaked’ to the press. In the meantime, buccaneers from Beijing are lined up around the corner giggling at the mischief while waiting to take over the contract and laugh all the way to the bank. Did the clip of tough-talking Nyeri cleric rile some state operatives hours before the BBI was received at State House on Tuesday? Our mole understands the stinging comments by the man of cloth almost threw a spanner in the works of the much-awaited report as it astounded the purveyors of the document. Parliament leadership is said to have been delayed following the startling reports from the ordinary folk on the ground. And still on matters to do with BBI report, while the event at the Bomas of Kenya was more about cementing and rallying for unity, State House director of Digital and Diaspora Communication Dennis Itumbi found himself in the wrong hands of the State. In a video that went viral, Itumbi, who had sat behind President Uhuru Kenyatta, was seen being shoved away from the VIP dais in a not so friendly manner.