Founded in 2009, The Art of Music has been in existence to promote the performance and appreciation of art music in Kenya and use it’s transformative power to change lives, particularly of those living in underprivileged areas of the country. The focuses is on two programmes. Firstly, Ghetto Classics, a community programme that involves over 500 children in Korogocho and thousands more in satellite areas around Nairobi, Kiambu and Mombasa through the Link UP project. The second is a musical and leadership training programme, The National Youth Orchestra of Kenya (KNYO). This is a music ensemble that brings together talented young musicians from all walks of life in the country. These programmes have been generously supported through donations from individuals and organisations that believe that “Making Music can Make A Difference.” The discipline, teamwork, focus and commitment that the children learn from being musicians and playing in an orchestra has translated to their school and home lives, making Ghetto Classics and KNYO students stand out above the rest. There has been an improvement in grades and this is particularly so in the Korogocho programme as all the children are self-motivated to stay in school and are assisted with their fees when necessary. These students have had their horizons widened because of the exposure that they have gained. They have played with children from totally different backgrounds and they have had outstanding experiences in concerts that they have been a part of, or watched. They have also traveled to different places in the world with some going out to as far as the United States and Europe to perform with other musicians. All these wonderful opportunities have come, thanks to music. On the 30th November 2019, The Art of Music will be holding their 10-year anniversary fundraising concert featuring Ghetto Classics, The National Youth Orchestra of Kenya (KNYO) and the Safaricom Youth Orchestra alongside, Polish composer JIMEK and the Swiss Mexican pianist Jorge Viladoms, who have both generously donated their time and expertise to be part of this concert. The tickets cost sh.10,000/= per person and includes dinner. It will be held at the Trademark Hotel.