Gor Mahia risk losing some of their dependable players, who are yet to receive their pay for the last three months. A senior player, who sought anonymity for fear of reprisals, said he will end his relationship with the club today if his salary arrears are not paid by close of business. The player also hinted at seeking Fifa's help in getting his dues. “I will be forced to part ways with the club tomorrow (today) if they don't me. I have been patient with them for quite some time but they keep on taking me in circles,” said the player. "I know the club is struggling financially but life from the other end is increasingly becoming unbearable. If I will not get the money then I will report them to Fifa." The champions, who have won the title in the last four seasons, have been struggling since the departure of betting firm Sportpesa in August. Club chairman Ambrose Rachier revealed that he had received a notice from former Western Stima defender Maurice Ojwang' who said that he will cut ties with the champions in December 6 should money fail to reflect in his account. Rachier, however, dismissed the looming exodus as rumours as the disgruntled players had not served him with notices. “I have received a notification from Ojwang' that he will terminate his contract with us next month if we do not pay him," said rachier. "The rest of the players purporting to be forcing their way out have not openly expressed that to me neither have I received official communication on their intended exit. I have decided to treat the reports as rumours.” Skipper Kenneth Muguna was also rumoured to be on the growing list of players forcing their way out but the Kenyan international declined to comment on the matter terming it as 'personal'. Muguna missed last weekend's 2-0 win over Bandari at Mbaraki Stadium fanning speculations over his future but Rachier said he missed the trip thanks to an unspecified injury. The lanky midfielder, alongside Joash Onyango, deserted duties last month forcing coach Steven Polack to fire an internal disciplinary action warning to the duo. “Issues to do with money and my future at the club are personal. We are winning our matches which shows that the playing unit is committed to defending the league title,” said Muguna. Rachier, in the meantime, admitted that the playing unit was not happy with the delays and further revealed that he had dished meagre amounts on a monthly basis to mitigate the problem. He exuded confidence that Umbro, a South African-based kit manufacturing company will pen a deal with them soon. “Honestly the players are not happy as far as payment is concerned. We do not have money and there is little I can do to salvage the situation," said Rachier. "I have shared this with the players whom we normally give something to sustain them as we keep knocking on sponsors' doors. We have been in negotiations with Umbro since September and hopefully, we will sign soon.”