A former politician who lost the last election and was rescued by President Uhuru Kenyatta is eating life with a big spoon. The man, who was appointed a Chief Administrative Secretary, is said to be swimming in cash and enjoying a flashy lifestyle. The Principal Secretary is said to have been kept at arm’s length. Those in the know say the man has a cosy unholy alliance with the Cabinet Secretary. The CAS is said to be having frequent problems accounting for imprest. It’s only a matter of time before auditors start sniffing around. There's a tussle for the appointment of a CEO of one of the country’s most lucrative parastatals. Sources whisper to Corridors that some board members are keen to block the favourite for the job on ethnic considerations. It's said that the fight has split the board right down the middle and some are likely to be compromised to change their stand. Those in the know said the recruitment of CEOs in giant government parastatals has become a cash cow that anti-graft detectives need to monitor and investigate. Mechanics working in a popular garage in Nairobi have launched a manhunt for a first-term MP from Western Kenya. The Tangatanga legislator is said to have vanished into thin air moments after the mechanics completed servicing his car. According to a mole who witnessed the incident, after the work was done, the legislator told the men that he did not have hard cash and asked to use his credit card. However, the card ‘developed problems’ and the MP excused himself to withdraw the money from a nearby ATM machine. The good legislator never went back to pay his bill. The mechanics are now looking for him and have threatened to stage a demo outside Parliament Buildings next week until they get their money. Just who is protecting a female police ‘imposter’ at a police station in Kisumu? This is the million-dollar question some Kisumu residents want answered. Tired of the woman’s dirty dealings, they want police boss Hilary Mutyambai to swiftly take action to save them and the image of the National Police Service. The woman is accused of extortion, intimidation and harassment of residents. Sources tell Corridors that the imposter-cum-broker negotiates with criminals for their freedom on behalf of her master. She identifies moneyed criminals, negotiates and receives money and then shares the loot with her boss. This puts residents' lives at risk. They wonder why the untouchable imposter has more powers than real police officers. They have threatened to stage a demonstration if action is not taken.