A lobby is spearheading a project to revive traditional food crops in Tharaka Nithi and areas with similar weather patterns. The Society for Alternative Learning and Transformation launched the distribution of indigenous and local seeds that had almost become extinct. Simon Mitambo of the African Biodiversity Network said their efforts are meant to improve diets. The organisation has also been distributing seeds of edible gourds, which are rich in vitamins and calcium. Through the initiative, some of the traditional crops that were becoming rare are thriving once again. They include citron melon and varieties of millet and sorghum. "These indigenous seeds varieties mature fast with less rainfall. The revival of traditional crops will also help to address increasing rates of cancer, diabetes, high blood pressure and other lifestyle diseases,” Mitambo said. "We use a central collection point and homesteads of beneficiaries. We share amounts of the indigenous seeds as we are still multiplying them for distribution." He said residents are progressively adopting traditional food crops and herbal medicine. “There is even high demand for the traditional crops, doctors and nurses are recommending these foods to their patients,” Mitambo said. Jane Kaari from Tunyai said she had stopped growing pumpkins and citron melons as seeds were rare. "I can't remember when I last saw these seeds. But now I will plant some, alongside sweet potatoes. A long time ago, we seldom got sick because of traditional foods,” she said. Mitambo said the threat posed by cancer and other diseases in Tharaka Nithi had partly contributed to the high demand for traditional foods. He cited citron melon as having the ability to reduce the risk of cancer, allows weight loss and reduces blood pressure. It contains Vitamin C, potassium and other essential minerals, lowers acidity levels and improves heart health. The pumpkin promotes heart and eye health, boosts immunity and supplements dietary fibre, he said. “Gourds help in maintaining a healthy heart and maintains blood pressure, while sorghum is rich in antioxidants, which may lower the risk of cancer, diabetes, heart disease and some neurological diseases,” Mitambo said. Millet is high in fibre and protein and rich in vitamin B, phosphorus and manganese, and is recommended for people suffering from poor bone health and arthritis. He said although the lobby is based in Tharaka South, the work of seed revival and spread cuts across the region. “We are working closely with Mbeere (Embu) and Narok communities,” he said. The organisation works within a radius of 601.7 square kilometres with a population of 64,548 people. “It is due to the promotion of the hybrids that were high yielding that made the traditional crops less grown and finally some of them were becoming extinct. We identified contours and belts where these crops were grown before,” Mitambo said. "We also revive farming methods of how these crops were intercropped and together with the community revive the knowledge around their culture and nutritional value. The idea is to improve the health of the people, so that they can engage in income-generating activities, especially farming.” (Edited by F'Orieny)