 Vihiga Public Accounts and Investments chairman Vincent Atsiaya has 14 days to provide all documents used to prepare the audit report for 2015-16 and 2016-17 financial years. Speaker Hasna Mudeizi on Tuesday said the supporting documents will enable the house to deliberate on the report. “In 14 days to come, ensure you have summoned all those you need to summon and have all the crucial documents needed by the house,” Mudeizi said. The names of those involved are missing from the report. The assembly said it could not be acted on if the names are still missing. The report shows the county paid contractors millions of shillings for unfinished projects. Massive withdrawals from county bank accounts with no proper paperwork have been identified for investigation. In one of the accounts, Sh30 million was withdrawn in one day but it is not clear how the money was spent. PAC chair Vincent Atsiaya said on Tuesday that the executive failed to maintain petty cash books and that some cannot be traced. Atsiaya told the house the county paid more than Sh750,000 to a contractor who built a class that collapsed before it was completed. He said some contractors left the site after receiving 75 per cent of their payments. The assembly, led by the leader of the majority Moses Opole and majority whip Victor Ijaika, said the report tabled by PAC chairman is incomplete and cannot be acted on. “Even if you take the report to the investigating agencies, they will ask you for the names of those people or the relevant departments involved," Ijaika said. Opole said the house needed the names of companies and contractors who received cash from the county government. “In my ward, the company that was paid to build a class at Asionga Primary School is known. How come the PAC chair is not aware of it?" Opole asked. Mungoma MCA Wycliffe Masini said the house had been taken for a ride and it's time to prove to the public what it has been doing as mandated by the Constitution. He said the house should hold accountable those responsible for misusing the county funds. West Sabatia MCA Henry Asava said, “Madam Speaker the idea of errors should not be accepted here when few individuals have crippled the county financially.” Speaker Mudeizi said the house has all the power to summon all officers in the county either in the past or the present government for the sake of the Vihiga people. 