Harambee Starlets have it all to do to reach the final stage of the Caf women's Olympics qualifier after they were held to a 2-2 draw by Zambia in the first leg played at Kasarani yesterday. "It is not the ideal result but we are still in with a chance. We only have to go to Lusaka and win the game. We have shown that we can score goals and now we have to demonstrate defensive resilience to win away from home," said Harambee Starlets coach David Ouma. His Zambian counterpart Bruce Mulenga was satisfied with the result but cautioned his players against complacency in the returned leg. "Our game plan worked and we got the away goal we all wanted. Now we must finish the job in front of our own fans," he said. Starlets had the worst possible scenario to contend with just twelve minutes into the game when Grace Chanda put the Copper Queens ahead after taking full advantage of some slack defending. Up until then, Starlets had looked the likeliest team to score but Janet Bundi and Cynthia Shilwatso lacked the conviction required from forwards at this level when chances presented themselves. Momentum, however, swung in the way of the home side with 30 minutes gone as Mwemba Lushomo sliced the goal past his goalkeeper to bring Starlets back into the game. The unfortunate Lushomo was substituted when the second period began as Shepolopolo looked to cut out any mistakes from their game. Starlets made their first substitution with just over an hour played as Vivian Makokha made way for Jentrix Shikangwa, a move meant to give Starlets an attacking impetus. Moments earlier, Shilwatso had a gilt-edged chance to bring Kenya in front but missed with only Natasha Hazel to beat in the Zambian goal. The switch worked as Vivian Corazone put Kenya ahead in the 71st minute with Zambia drawing level three minutes later through Rachel Katunga. Both teams will have little time to take in the engrossing stalemate as they leave today for Lusaka, Zambia in time for the second leg scheduled for Monday.