Kisii Municipality will benefit from Sh800 million in technical support for urban upgrading. This is part of the Sustainable Urban Economic Development (SUED) programme supported by the British Government through the Department for International Development (DFID). SUED Kenya’s institutional strengthening lead Jeremiah Nyambane announced implementation of the programme will commence in Kisii Municipality on November 11. “Kisii is among 12 fast-growing municipalities in Kenya that were competitively selected to benefit from the programme and develop into strategic green growth hubs. We have identified 15 experts who will work with the municipality in urban economic planning,” Nyambane said. Speaking during a courtesy call on Deputy Governor Joash Maangi at his office, Nyambane said the first phase would take seven months to complete. “Following a readiness assessment conducted earlier in the year, we have selected Kisii among three other municipalities to move to the next level of the programme. The urban economic planning process will help identify climate-resilient projects for investment,” he added. Participating counties will share out Sh8.9 billion. Up to 50 per cent of the total fund will support infrastructural development and value chain projects over a period of five years. “We thank the British government for this programme. Kisii county is the densely populated, meaning we have to encourage our people to settle in urban areas to free land for agriculture," Maangi said. "One of the major problems in Kisii Municipality is haphazard development due to improper planning. This is why we are committed to the success of this programme.” The DG was accompanied by the CEC for lands and urban planning John Momanyi and members of the Kisii Municipal Board among other county officials. The programme entails urban economic planning, investment climate reforms, investment attraction and capacity development. Other towns in the programme are Eldoret, Isiolo, Iten, Kathwana, Kerugoya/Kutus, Kitui, Lamu, Malindi and Mandera.