Former Nominated MP Amina Abdalla is set to quit a tribunal investigating the conduct of three judges for a new job at the Salaries and Remuneration Commission. Abdalla on Thursday told the MPs on the Finance and Planning committee that it would be illegal for her to be a commissioner of the SRC and a member of the tribunal. “Holding the two offices would be in conflict,” she told the committee. The committee was vetting Abdalla after President Uhuru Kenyatta nominated her to the SRC. The tribunal was appointed to investigate the conduct of Justices Lucy Njoki Waithaka, Njagi Marete and Martin Mati Muya and is chaired by Justice Alnashir Visram. Members are Justice (Rtd) Festus Azangalala, Ambrose Weda, Andrew Bahati Mwamuye, Lucy Kambuni, Sylvia Wanjiku Muchiri and Abdalla. In a special gazette notice on April 2, Uhuru said he created the tribunal following allegations contained in a petition to the Judicial Service Commission filed by Nelson Oduor Onyango and eight others presented to him. Abdalla was among a list of former lawmakers who battled the Parliamentary Service Commission’s slot at the SRC. PSC is seeking a representative to replace former Senator Halima Abdille who was rejected by the House. On Thursday, Abdalla vowed to improve the relationship between the SRC and members of Parliament. “Without a harmonised relationship, there will not be a solution to the wage bill,” she explained. The three-time former nominated MP further told legislators that reduction of salaries is not the only way to deal with a ballooning wage bill. “We have to look at whether bearers of the various offices are delivering on their mandate. They should give services that increase revenue for the country." Baringo South MP Joshua Kandie asked Abdalla to improve the relationship between Parliament and the SRC. “We hope that you will make our relationship with the SRC better. Since the inception of the commission, our association with them has not been so good." Abdalla said she will push for a cordial and interactive working relationship between SRC and Parliament. She told the committee that her net worth stands at about Sh250 million. The veteran politician who served as a Nominated MP from 2003 to 2017 lost in her quest for Mombasa Woman Representative position, coming behind ODM's Asha Hussein Mohammed. She came into the limelight in 2002 when she supported the then Kanu presidential candidate Uhuru Kenyatta (now President) and has been the face of Uhuru's Jubilee Party in Mombasa. During the 2017 election, she was one of  Uhuru's key campaigners in the pro-ODM and opposition region. Edited by R.Wamochie