The Kenya Institute of Management has picked Savannah Cement CEO  Ronald Ndegwa as the Chief Executive Officer of the Year. The Savannah Cement Team leader was named the Overall CEO of the Year at the concluded KIM Company of the Year Awards (COYA) gala ceremony, which was held at the Nairobi hotel. Speaking at the Gala event moments after receiving the award, Ndegwa dedicated the prize to Savannah Cement management, staff, and customers describing it as a tribute; for their continued co-operation. "Sound management is a sum result of all the stakeholders who relate with Savannah Cement including the management team, staff, and loyal customers,” Ndegwa said. He added that “the award serves to rededicate our commitment to deliver to our customers the perfect construction experience every day.” Ndegwa also serves as an Independent Director of the Nairobi Metropolitan Area Transport Authority (NAMATA). The KIM Company of the Year Awards which also incorporates the SME of the Year Awards (SMOYA) seeks to promote and encourage best practices in Corporate Performance, Leadership, People Management, Customer Focus, Financial Management, Innovation, Corporate Citizenship and Productivity in Kenya. The Awards are based on a global Business Excellence Model - Organizational Performance Index (OPI). The OPI process assesses organisations on the soundness of their systems and processes and results benchmarked against global standards. During the event, Coca-Cola Beverages Africa in Kenya won the overall Company of the Year trophy while Sheffield Steel Systems picked the SME of the Year Award. The Authority is a bold and visionary policy intervention established by President Uhuru Kenyatta to, provide a comprehensive and dynamic platform for addressing the decades-old transport sector challenges bedeviling the Nairobi Metropolitan Area. Over the years, Ndegwa has accumulated a wealth of knowledge and experience spanning over 20 years' in the oil & gas and manufacturing sectors as a supply chain specialist, during which time he has held various senior management roles with overall responsibility for a wide range of assets and activities. He was instrumental in the turnaround of the supply chain functions in the oil, alcoholic beverages and soda ash sectors having worked with Caltex Kenya, East African Breweries as the Group Head of Supply Chain & Logistics and with Magadi Soda, a member of the giant Tata Group, as the Director of Supply Chain. He has also been extensively involved in Strategic operations planning and business development. He is renowned for innovation and operational efficiency. Ndegwa also serves as a Vice-Chairperson on the Government of Kenya Taskforce on the Transition and Transformation of the Public Transport Sector during the Implementation of the Mass Rapid Transit System (MRTS) within the Nairobi Metropolitan Area. Regionally,Ndegwa served as a Board Member of the East African Business Council (EABC), the apex body of Private Sector associations and corporates in the region, with a single purpose of driving the East African Community integration process through trade and investment. As part of his contribution to public initiatives, Ndegwa has been an active supporter of the Engineering Students Association (ESA). He has also played a vital role in the development of corporate, academic support programmes for Kenyatta University and Karatina University as part of his commitment to educational development and youth mentorship. Under his leadership, both Karatina University and Kenyatta University now maintain a collaborative platform with Savannah Cement, allowing the two organisations to engage in joint research activities, capacity building and student internship among other areas of mutual benefit.