His is a story of resilience, a stoic determination to succeed against all odds. It is in fact, this fortitude that brought Paul Kongani Udoto to limelight four years ago when he attempted to succeed former Chief Justice Willie Mutunga. Even though his story has been told many times since, he believes that the gist of his life is yet to be captured. “My life is not about carpentry, I have done many odd jobs including mjengo, bodaboda, mkokoteni, car wash etc. In different phases of my life, I did different things,” he explained. Many know him as a ‘carpenter lawyer’ from Bungoma who took 11 years to complete a law degree that ordinarily takes four, but only a few people know that despite going through the all the hurdles to get the degree and admission to the bar, Udoto’s dream was never to become a lawyer and he barely practices. He, however, admits that he loves carpentry and that it is an art most of his family members were born with. “I always wanted to become a doctor. In fact, when I joined law school under the influence of my father, I knew nothing about it and was openly uninterested,” he said. Udoto said he failed attain the points needed to do medicine and instead got an offer to study veterinary medicine at the University of Nairobi. “I declined and instead opted to go to Uganda for A-levels so I could score the points needed to study medicine,” he explained. In his final year of study, Udoto failed Chemistry and therefore could not be admitted for medicine, once again leaving him with no option but to study law, which his father had recommended but against his wishes. “Studying Law degree was never once my consideration. I was in love with sciences,” he said. He added: “When I joined university, I blocked my mind completely and for the first two years, I just hanged in there. I had no interest at all”. After four years, Udoto would still not graduate since he had not taken some tests for lack of school fees. He went back to his village where worked with his brother-in-law in his carpentry shop before he joined a Law firm. “There, I was earning a salary of Sh3,000 a month, but after going for three months without pay I decided to quit. "My employer later paid me Sh7,000 and with that, I joined a Bible school where I studied a diploma in Advanced Biblical Studies in 2004. “I love to read, those days, I only read the Bible and a dictionary. In 2006, I begun making plans for marriage but was advised against it since I was young. Tired of waiting with no sign of progress, my fiancée left,” he said. Frustrated and at his lowest, Udoto says he heard a sermon that would be a complete turn in his life. “A sermon about fasting turned my life around. I heeded to the teachings and after fasting for 21 days, when I returned to the Bible school, a missionary paid my school fees,” he narrated. Udoto said he then moved to fast for 40 days and his mother who had never contributed a coin towards his education offered to him Sh50, 000 to pay school fees. The lawyer said he used the cash to restock a carpentry shop that he had recently opened and the year favored his business. In the first month, he made Sh200, 000. He ran the business for the entire year and in 2008, he went back to Moi University, where he paid his school fees, leaving a balance of Sh72, 000. “I don’t know who paid Sh30, 000 but when I went to clear the fees so as to graduate, I only had Sh42, 000 balance. In 2009, I graduated,” he recalled. Still determined to succeed, Udoto, just, newly-married, moved to the city, unaware of how he’d make a living. He wanted to join Kenya School of Law (KSL) and get admission to the bar. “I did mjengo hoping I would raise enough the Sh200, 000 needed at KSL. A week before the deadline, I still had no cash to pay,” he said. Udoto said a miracle would befall him in disguise once again when he was added to a friend’s wedding committee where they targeted to raise Sh400, 000. “I thought the amount was so much and wished they could give me Sh200, 000 from the cash to pay my school fees at the Kenya school of Law. After all, my wedding only cost Sh60, 000,”he said. Udoto decides to speak to the committee chair, whom he explained his situation to. “He created a WhatsApp group where member raised Sh150, 000. On top of that, six of the members individually volunteered to give me Sh3,000 each monthly for my upkeep,” he said. Udoto beat the deadline and through the support of his former schoolmates, he finished school. Even though he failed four out of the nine course, he took a re-sit and passed all of them and later wrote books on the topics. “I have written seven books currently on different courses offered at KSL. I would be a lawyer but carpentry just flows in my blood, so that is my focus now,” he said. Today, Udoto runs two carpentry shop both in his village in Musikoma, Bungoma county, and another in Nairobi where he has employed people. He also does freelance legal work and preaches in his church. He asserts that his life is not about carpentry but more about  miracles, and when all has been said and done, Udoto knows he wants to be a preacher. “I will finish my life on the pulpit, as a preacher!” he concluded.         