 Migori activists have demanded that officers at Kamagambo police station be arrested over the mysterious disappearance of a criminal who was in custody. On Monday, Rongo police boss Joel Kiptum said Brian Ouma was still at large after he escaped from the station on November 10. “The officer in charge of the station is yet to confirm if the suspect has been re-arrested. We are still investigating how he escaped from the cell,” Kiptum told the Star on the phone. Joseph Onditi, a para-legal officer working with Independent Medico-Legal Unit said external investigators should be called in. He said police could not be expected to prosecute their colleagues. Ouma was to appear at the Rongo resident magistrate court on November 20 to face charges of obtaining money through pretense. “The suspect has been evading arrest for long and prosecution has been accused of bungling investigations,” Onditi said. He said the suspect is behind a ring of land disputes, fake money and forged documents. “Having the suspect arrested was a big plus for victims. His escape from custody has created fear about the safety of our police stations," Onditi said. Sources said the suspect was the only inmate who escaped on the night of November 10 during a change of guarding shift between 10 pm and 11 pm. “There was no breaking of the cell, no alarm was raised of a missing remand prisoner or why others remained behind when their colleagues escaped,” a police officer said. The main entrance to the cell and two other doors to the inner cell where the suspect was remanded remained intact. “Two officers who were in charge of manning the station, and two others who changed shift with them and the officer in charge station are under investigation,“ Kiptum said. He said the officers only raised alarm 12 hours after the suspect went missing. "We already have an inquiry because a suspect can’t just vanish from custody,” Kiptum said. The police boss said an officer was culpable because the "suspect was aided to escape from custody as no alarm was raised for several hours.” “We call on members of the public to remain calm and have faith in the police. We will soon arrest the suspect and officer culpable,” Kiptum said.  edited by peter obuya