The government has announced plans to invest more than Sh350 million in a skills development programme for public communication and information officers. Information, Communications and  Technology CS Joe Mucheru on Thursday said the funds will be used to upskill and position government communication officers to provide reliable services and solutions. In a speech delivered on his behalf at the ongoing Public Relations Society of Kenya (PRSK) Annual Summit 2019 in Mombasa by Government Spokesperson Col (Rtd) Cyrus Oguna, Mucheru said, the government understands how crucial communication is for national development. “That is why budgetary allocation for mass media skills development, among other crucial efforts, was increased to more than Sh350 million in the last financial year," he said. These are funds earmarked to ensure capacity building of  public communication and information officers to enable them to improve performance and delivery. “Government communication officers must also strive to be at the forefront in shaping public opinion, especially in their respective ministries,” he said. The government, he added will also provide the necessary support to the society’s bid to be anchored in law through the draft Institute of Public Relations and Communication Management Bill. Mucheru said the government has adopted an all-inclusive approach to delivery of projects that is heavily reliant on technological advancement. “This, he said, requires competent communication professionals who are well versed with change communications to help with awareness creation, attitude and behaviour change for the successful implementation of programs by stakeholders.” He, however, challenged PRSK to introduce stringent measures to ensure professional practice to regain sanity in the industry. Members present included PRSK Vice President Dr Mbugua Njoroge, Dr William Kingi Deputy Governor of Mombasa, Dr Naim Bilal KBC CEO, David Omwoyo ,CEO MCK and Prof Jim Macnamara are some of the invited speakers at the summit.