A family has come to the rescue of needy children in Soweto slum, Kayole Estate, Nairobi. Lul Billow has admitted 50 children to her school — New River Star Primary. They have humble backgrounds and had risked dropping out of school. She said having the children in school goes a long way in improving security in the area, adding that such children would easily turn to crime to eke a living. Billow said her family resorted to supporting the children so they can have a brighter future. With proper education, they will change their family's fortunes and inspire other members of society, she told the press on Thursday. "At New Riverstar Academy, we fully sponsor 50 children from very poor families. We also offer them lunch and transport services for free,” Billow said. "The school supplies free water to the residents as a corporate social responsibility." She said their contributions have improved security in the slums. “We are contented with what we do since our contribution helps in retaining children in schools. By so doing, they don’t loiter around or engage in crime and drugs,” Billow said. The slums include Soweto, Kayole, Mathare, Mukuru Kwa Njenga and Dandora. The school has a population of 542 pupils. It also has a secondary wing called New River Star Secondary. This year, they had 23 KCPE candidates. Their top student scored 418 marks. Others had at least 350 marks. This is the ninth year its pupils sat KCPE exam. Parents, teachers, and candidates from the school called for fairness in Form 1 selection. Headteacher Morphat Nyakundi urged the government to ensure inclusivity and fare placement for all public and private schools. He said public schools cannot accommodate all pupils, hence those who opt for private schools should not be punished through biased placement. "The majority of children from private schools, especially in the slums, are from poor backgrounds, do not allow teachers from day or subcounty schools to select children with high marks. Neither should you allow them to kill children's dreams," Nyakundi said. Billow said that withy unfair selection, some children may be placed in schools in far-flung schools areas that require high transport expenses and that might ruin their education. "Do not discriminate against children from private schools," she appealed to the Education ministry, adding no hardworking child should be discouraged. Mercy Luyayi, 14, who scored 413 marks, urged the government to be considerate so their dreams are not shattered after eight years of hard work. "I joined this school in Baby Class and have come out of it victorious. Life hasn't been easy, as most of us hail from needy families," she said. "I thank God for prosperity in my primary education. Teachers, parents and the entire school community and management have made it happen." The secondborn in a family of four hopes to join Pangani Girls, Nairobi. She aspires to be a neurosurgeon. (Edited by F'Orieny)