Save my child, he needs urgent surgery. These were the words of a desperate woman who cried out as she managed to push her way until she finally reached and managed to capture the attention of Deputy President William Ruto. Ruto was speaking at the Holy Spirit church in Thika on Sunday when the woman dressed in a red top and floral skirt threw the DP's security detail off guard and walked to him crying. "Mtoto amefanya mtihani akiwa kwa ward na sahi sina pesa (My child did examinations while in the ward)," she cried out. "Nimezaliwa kwa Nyoro (I was born in MP Ndindi Nyoro's constituency of Kiharu)," she went on while she knelt before Ruto. Those present swiftly tried to usher the woman away but were reprimanded by Ruto who directed that she be offered a seat next to the VIPs at the front row of the church. "Mama keti hapa dakika mbili ntakuona (Sit down i'll talk to you) ,"Ruto said. "Unaonauyo mama ako na bidii amekuja mpaka hapa kuomba usaidizi (This woman was courageous enough to walk to the podium to ask for help)." Before Ruto could proceed with his speech, another woman walked to her crying for help. Dressed in a yellow t-shirt she asked Ruto to intercede in her case where her money was stolen. "Nimepoteza Sh3.8 million nisaidie (I have lost Sh3.8 million)," she said while walking towards the DP, also crying. The second woman was also asked by the DP to sit at the front row and wait for him to address her issue. The DP has in the recent past been vocal on his stand on church donations, telling off critics and insisting he will continue to support the church. Ruto in July hit at opposition leader Raila Odinga over church donations. The DP while speaking in Kuria, Migori county said it is hypocritical for Raila to oppose church donations yet the same is biblical. Kuria remains one of ODM's stronghold and Raila's backyard. Ruto said it is very unfortunate that Raila who doubles up as African Union Special Envoy for Infrastructure and his allies are pushing a motion in parliament to cap church donations to Sh100,000. The DP said just like going to church, church donation is voluntary and instructed in scriptures and any move to control that is re-writing the bible which he termed as blasphemy. “As we go to church we are preparing our place in heaven, those who are controlling their destiny elsewhere are free to go,” Ruto said.