The tourism sector is set for a major boost following the return of Air India to Nairobi. Air lndia’s flight from Mumbai to Nairobi landed yesterday with 100 passengers on board marking the return of the airline to Kenya after 10 years. The return of the airline presents a big opportunity for the two countries which have shared trade and economic ties for many years. The airline will offer four direct flights a  week; Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday and Sunday with plans to offer additional flights in the pipeline. Air India will be instrumental in increasing uptake from both Tier I and II city markets of Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai and Bengaluru; and Kolkata, Pune, Hyderabad, Ahmedabad and others, utilizing its existing domestic infrastructure network, market knowledge and presence Speaking during the reception, KTB CEO Betty Radier said that the return of Air India to Kenya would be a big boost to the strong ties the two countries have had, adding that the airline will help to promote tourism, trade, improve relationships and create opportunities between the two countries. India is the fifth top markets source for Kenya’s international tourists, official data shows with 93,804 tourist arrivals between January and September. “India is one of Kenya’s top tourist source market. Arrivals from India in year 2018 grew by 51.9 per cent to reach 125,032. The return of Air India to Kenya adds to the existing connectivity by KQ and other airlines flying into Kenya and thus further enhancing accessibility to Kenya. Kenya is confident of sustained tourist arrivals from India following this arrival”, said Radier. “KTB will continue to put effort to grow tourism from India, building on the goodwill and strong ties enjoyed by the two nations,” she added. India has 75 Million passport holders which presents a great opportunity for Kenya to tap into with the arrival of Air India, especially during peak travel seasons of October to December when 25 per cent of outbound travel happens and from April to June that has 50 per cent of outbound travel from India.