Miritini and Mtopanga wards are leading in the chewing of muguka as MCAs plan to ban the sale and use of the drug in Mombasa county. The chewing of miraa twigs, another stimulant, is not banned. Muguka leaves are chewed for similar effects and they are cheaper than miraa and gaining in popularity. Betting parlours encourage muguka chewing as users who are high are inclined to place many bets. The National Authority for the Campaign Against Alcohol and Drug Abuse has deplored the impact of social media, which it says is a catalyst for drug abuse among the youth across the country. According to Mombasa's Health committee, Miritini and Mtopanga have 62.5 per cent and 57.5 per cent muguka usage, respectively, the highest among he county's 30 wards. The prevalence of muguka is lowest in Mtongwe ward at 12.8 per cent followed by Jomvu Kuu at 14.8 per cent. Health committee vice chair Fatma Kushe told the Star that the ban on muguka is long overdue. “We are going to ban Muguka completely. Those selling muguka must now look for other ventures like those who used to sell shisha did,” Kushe said on the phone on Friday. The committee tabled a report at the assembly on Tuesday. Kushe said the committee has made shocking discoveries in their probe. This is not the first time the county assembly has attempted to ban the use and sale of the plant. A prior attempt led to a backlash from residents which made some MCA's reverse their positions. Residents said they would be kicked out or voted out of office. “These people use chemicals used to kill bedbugs on muguka so they can remain fresh. Have you seen muguka leaves that are withered? Mombasa people are consuming chemicals," Kushe said. On Thursday, Nacada CEO Victor Okioma said social media has become the biggest threat to the fight against drugs in the country. “To effectively manage communication, one needs to have an engagement with social media. However, it is becoming a dangerous tool especially among the young people,” Okioma said. He spoke during a training session for the Nacada board and senior management on communication at Travellers Beach Hotel in Mombasa on Thursday. Okioma said the drug problem is exacerbated by social media which acts as a recruitment avenue. The prevalence of muguka, a variant of khat (miraa), in Mombasa has been the subject of a long-standing debate pitting sellers and consumers against authorities. A survey conducted by Nacada indicates that 18.2 per cent of the country's population abuses or has abused drugs. Worryingly, a bigger percentage of secondary students abuse drugs at 23.2 per cent. In primary schools, 20 per cent of the pupils have abused drugs by the time they turned 11. Nacada's Okioma attributed this to poor parenting, citing no monitoring. “Schools have no clear programmes on social media use," he said. Edited by R.Wamochie