Vice President of Liberia Jewel Taylor has commended President Uhuru Kenyatta for spearheading the campaign to end female genital mutilation in Kenya across the region. Taylor has applauded Uhuru for mobilising opinion leaders, including elders, to make a commitment to end FGM in Kenya by 2022. Uhuru last week met religious and cultural leaders drawn from 22 counties who signed a declaration to eliminate FGM by 2022. The Liberian VP, who is in the country to attend the ongoing International Conference on Population and Development (ICPD25), spoke on Thursday when she paid a courtesy call on Uhuru at State House, Nairobi. Uhuru expressed optimism that the ongoing efforts to stop FGM will succeed. “It has been a long journey involving all stakeholders. We are glad that it has borne fruits with the signing of the declaration by cultural and religious leaders,” Uhuru said. He also emphasised the need to consolidate efforts that will do away with harmful cultural practices and only retain the progressive ones that will help move the continent forward. The two also discussed the problem of unemployment in the continent and ways to alleviate it. The President said the coming together and pooling of resources would help the  continent deal with the growing challenge of unemployment by giving it a bigger voice in the international market. “This would enable Africa to get the best from its resources through interlinking the infrastructure networks of our countries to allow free movement and interaction of people,” Uhuru said. He added, “This approach will liberate our continent and promise a bright future to our people." The Liberian VP thanked President for co-hosting the ICPD25 summit, saying the conference provided an opportunity for her to visit Kazuri Beads Factory in Karen where local women make handmade beads and other ornaments and sell to generate income. The Vice President said her visit to Kazuri has given her an idea that she intends to replicate in Liberia to enable the women in her country benefit from their handcrafts like their Kenyan counterparts.