Deputy President William Ruto has announced his plans to use the imminent Nairobi’s Kibra by-election to battle home the ODM leader Raila Odinga. Ruto promised to focus all his energy to have the Jubilee candidate McDonald Mariga win the parliamentary seat left vacant by the late Ken Okoth. Okoth died of colon cancer on 26th July and his body was cremated on August 3rd at Kariokor crematorium. “This exercise is a ‘do or die’ and it should actually tell the ‘aging’ Raila that his time in politics is over and he ought to retire honorably and go back to warm his bedroom in Bondo” Ruto said. He was addressing a huge gathering while presiding over AIC church fundraiser in Kabartojo, Baringo North Sub-county on Saturday. The handshake between Raila and President Uhuru Kenyatta in March 2018, has seemed to hurt DP Ruto. He however nicknamed Raila ‘Ng’aniat’ a Kalenjin term he said which means 'someone whose name ought not to be mentioned.' Ruto humored; “We have even prepared for him a nice bed ready to escort him home together with his entire luggage,” Ruto said adding that Raila is really aging and tired in politics. Although Kibra constituency is seen as a heartbeat for Raila but Ruto said it is time the ruling Jubilee candidate should takeover, “In order to help prepare the ground ahead of 2022,” he said. He further said the jubilee government headed by President Uhuru Kenyatta is intact. “It is built on a hard rock where nobody whatsoever can dare dissolve it with useless politics,” he said. However, Mariga faces off with other candidates among them ODM's Imran Okoth and ANC Eliud Owalo during the by-election slated for Thursday next week, November 7th. Ruto said in 2017, he exercised his powers to campaign and have a Kalenjin, Nixon Korir, win Lang'ata seat. “Here again comes another ceremony in Kibra that we must win as jubilee,” he said. In accompany were Baringo Governor Stanley Kiptis, Baringo North MP William Cheptumo, Water Cabinet Secretary Simon Chelugui and East Africa Legislative Assembly (EALA) legislature Florence Sergon. Cheptumo drummed up his support for DP Ruto saying he is better placed to takeover power after President Kenyatta in 2022. “We are of no doubt that God willing Ruto will be our Kenya’s 5th president,” Cheptumo said. Ruto together with his boss, Uhuru raised Sh5 million during the fundraiser.