What is apparent from the meeting which was geared towards uniting Mt. Kenya region is that the meeting achieved the opposite of what it was intended to attain. The organization of the meeting wasn't well thought-out. Without a doubt, the meeting had been organized by the Interior PS Karanja Kibicho for Kieleweke. People who were marshalling guests in the tents were some goons from Nairobi and they made sure some MPs didn't access the VIP tent. I cannot comprehend why the President decided to work with people who are not elected. Mutahi Kagwe isn't elected but was given a prominent role. Sabina Chege is Women Rep for Muranga and thus wrong protocol-wise to have her play the host. Why was the area MP not given a chance to speak if for sure this meeting was to bring leaders from Mt. Kenya together. Why treat leaders with contempt in their own area? It was shocking to see Njenga Mungai given a chance to talk on behalf of Nakuru. Njenga is a political spent force, he doesn't even have the clout to speak for Molo constituency where he is from, how comes he qualified to speak on behalf of the third-most populous county in Kenya? Njenga is also not a member of Jubilee Party, we know who he supports and roots for. So is it true that President Uhuru Kenyatta hasn't promised someone something on his political ambition and their unity is truly based on 'peace?' From my point of view, the meeting divided the people more. This is because the President seems to be working with people who lost their seats or aren't elected. During the campaigns, President promised to work with all elected leaders, but has since renegade on his word, which is against the constitution. According to the Kenya constitution 2010, sovereign power belongs to the people and is exercised on their behalf by the elected leaders. Telling us that he didn't know how the meeting was organized doesn't help absolve the President from the ramifications of a badly organized meeting. The President told us that the meeting was organized by other people without his knowledge. This is quite unfortunate. The President had a golden opportunity of uniting Mt. Kenya region but that chance has slipped through his fingers, as it stands now people are more divided than before and something must be urgently done to redress this situation in a manner that's uniting. It is far from the truth for the President to claim that people who were elected together with him on the Jubilee platform are not working with him. As stated earlier, this is against the spirit of our constitution, this is fighting with the will of the people. If for instance, we consider the conduct of government business in the National Assembly, there is no any single bill that supports the executive agenda and by extension the President's plans for the nation that we have failed to pass. Last month, parliament approved the national treasury request to raise the public debt ceiling to Sh9 trillion from Sh6 trillion in order to boost the economy and with the hope that this money will be used prudently. Recently, at the quest of the President, the national assembly approved for the removal of the cap on banks' interest rates. We have been supporting the President agenda for the nation. We might have differences in opinion on certain issues, but it is healthy, that's what democracy is all about. But I have said this, and I am repeating it again for the umpteenth time, if the President is tired of working with the people who were elected with him, he should dissolve the government and call for elections. That way he will have to campaign for those people he thinks can work with him and also campaign for himself, get elected and form a government with those who would massage his ego. People who would be too afraid to tell him the truth, the yes sir kind of people. As of now, the people behind the President's throne don't have the mandate of the people, democratically they are inconsequential. When the president says that MPs aren't doing anything, I would want him to take note of what the Sh100 million given to each constituency's NG-CDF does. We have built more schools, improved accessibility through roads construction, the nation is more secure courtesy of police stations and chief's offices built through NG-CDF. On the other hand, the Office of the President receives about Sh3 billion each financial year. What has these funds done? Do we have any projects to show for it? This are the funds that are being used to fund BBI. Sh10 billion was committed for BBI. For a white elephant committee to crisscross the country to collect skewed views for creation of imaginary offices to satiate the whims of a few individuals at the expense of million Kenyans who are struggling to make ends meet. We have been telling people that BBI is all about creating posts for 2017 poll losers and some sections have refuted this oblivious of the facts. We now know the might be having political ambitions come 2022. We were dismayed when the President that he would want to continue with the 'seat!!!' What is the meaning of this. This statement is marred with confusion. The Constitution clearly puts a term limit, but interestingly, Kieleweke have agreed with this self-aggrandizing clarion call. My take is that this would mean that this could have been the main agenda of the meeting and that the President wanted to use the platform to solidify his position as Mt. Kenya kingpin, although he didn't clearly state his intention, this is what most people could infer, thus the President must come clean on his intentions. The President is cautioning people to desist from politicking, yet he himself has ambitions for 2022 and thus has positioned people to block DP Ruto's bid. We saw how the President relished Njenga Mungai's attack on the DP when Mungai said, 'Ruto is milking with the people's grass'. Ruto has a legitimate stake in Jubilee, if the President thinks otherwise, he should face us and tell us so, he is our party leader or is he afraid? Finally, on the Kibra by-elections, the President said he is happy that no houses were burnt, but for those who roughed up by hooligans, they are on their own. This is not a statesman's statement, it is reckless. There is nothing new we heard from the meeting, just the regurgitation of the old narrative. Our people are grappling with issues of agriculture that isn't paying, they yearn to be empowered, what happened yesterday is just a decoy to hoodwink the people. Nothing was discussed that aimed at solving the issues that are affecting the people such as low tea bonus, perennial low coffee prices among others. The President should have another forum with elected leaders to put his house in order and discuss the issue affecting the people. Fighting elected leaders is akin to fighting the people which is really unfortunate. And the President shouldn't yield to the pressure of people who want jobs. Currently, there are no vacant posts and they should wait for 2022. The writer is the MP Bahati Constituency.