Governor Mike Sonko has called for truce and stability in the county assembly and wants all MCAs on board to drive his agenda to city residents. Sonko said wrangles among the MCAs are tearing the county apart, citing chaos and fracas that made front-page news recently. "We must end this drama and learn to respect each other regardless of whether one is elected or nominated. The ongoing divisions in the house are a major setback and we should not allow it to go further," he said. The governor, who spoke in Mombasa on Sunday where he met a section of MCAs,  said it was time the assembly put its house in order and focus on development. "We must respect the nominated MCAs and other elected leaders and stop intimidating them when they don't support our cause," he told the MCAs. He called on those not in good terms with Speaker Beatrice Elachi to put their differences aside. "The assembly should be run under one leadership bringing on board all 122 legislators' welfare and not individually where few members think the assembly belongs to them," he stated. He urged Speaker Elachi to bring the house in order and support his development agenda. The county boss challenged the new assembly board to be transparent and follow an all-inclusive leadership style. "Let's respect one another and everyone feel that they are well represented in the running of the assembly affairs," he added. Elachi said she will work towards creating a friendly working environment for all leaders in the county. "Victimisation and intimidation of members just because they are opposed or raise concern of the decisions we make on some matters has to end. We have to get everything right and strive to bring everyone on board," she said. Nairobi West MCA Maurice Gare, who is the ODM board member representative, said the opposition party is fully behind Sonko's development agenda. Hamza Ward MCA Mark Ndungu urged the governor to support MCAs in their plans to have operating offices for both elected and nominated members. Sonko reached out to Majority leader Abdi Hassan Guyo. The two fell out in September and have not been reading on the same page. "I do not wish to isolate anyone in my development agenda. The differences between Guyo and I should not stop us from working for Nairobi residents. That is why l am forgiving him," Sonko stated.