If you wish to import a car into Kenya temporarily, here are some of the requirements. For Kenyan Citizens: Prior to gaining entry approval, the foreign operator from the East African Community (EAC) or Common Market for East and Southern Africa (COMESA) Countries must have a valid Temporary Importation of Road Vehicles Form (Form C32) which is issued at the Border Station. To obtain a Form C32, an individual MUST: For Non – Kenyans: Prior to gaining entry approval, a foreign operator from Countries outside the EAC or COMESA Countries must have a valid International Circulation Permit from Country of Origin (Carnet de Passage en Douane) or Pass Sheet issued from their Country of Origin. This Carnet de Passages en Douane must be valid for use in Kenya In addition to this, he/she MUST provide: Individuals without these documents will not be allowed entry in to or to locally operate a foreign registered motor vehicle and any such vehicle operated without the above will be impounded. In addition to having a Form C32 or an International Circulation Permit from Country of Origin (Carnet de Passage en Douane), an operator of a Foreign motor vehicle must apply for a Foreign Motor Vehicle Permit. To make an application for a foreign permit, an individual will require: No vehicle will be allowed out of a Customs Border Station without the owner being in possession of either a Form C32 or Carnet de Passage and a Foreign Permit. On expiry of fourteen days or granted period, the applicant, may seek an extension of their Form C32 and Foreign Permit from the Customs and Border Control Department, Enforcement Division Regional Offices. Extension of the Form C32 and Foreign Permits SHALL not be allowed unless the Customs Officer physically verifies the vehicle and is satisfied that a justified reason for the extension has been given. All operators of foreign vehicles whose vehicles do not meet the above requirements MUST re-export their vehicles with immediate effect and any contraventions will lead to enforcement actions including impounding of the said vehicles. For more information, please visit kra.go.ke for more information. 