Kenya is in negotiation with the World Athletics to host one of the Continental Tour legs next year. Africa and Latin America are currently not represented in the circuit with Europe taking the giant share despite also hosting the Diamond League. The World Athletics Continental Tour is the second-tier competition after the Diamond League and starts next year. Comprising meetings from around the world, the Continental Tour will be divided into three levels – Gold, Silver and Bronze – whose status will be determined by the quality of competition and prize money on offer. Already nine host cities have been named with a tenth venue earmarked for Africa. Nairobi tops the list of interested cities and Sports Cabinet Secretary Ambassador Amina Mohamed believes time has come for Nairobi to host a major World Athletics event. CS Amina is confident Nairobi will be granted hosting rights of one of the newly launched World Athletics Continental Tour. Amina, Sports PS Amb. Kirimi Kaberia and AK President Lt.Gen (Rtd) Jackson Tuwei were in Monaco for the World Athletics Gala where they also lobbied the athletics body to grant Kenya the hosting status. “We did put in a strong bid together with AK and PS Amb. Kaberia and we believe World Athletics will consider it. There are a few things that need firming up, but we strongly believe we have what it takes to host the Continental Tour,” CS Amina stated. "Kenya has the capacity to host the event going by our performance during the World Under 18 Championships two years ago. We have qualified technical officials who have officiated at all levels of international athletics. So, yes as a major player in the development of athletics, I believe we should be considered as one of the hosts," said Tuwei. The continental event's core disciplines in the 2020 season include 200m, 3000m steeplechase, triple jump, discus throw and hammer throw for both men and women and the ranking points will be allotted at the same level as the Diamond League. Kenya was one of the countries who suffered a low after 5,000m and 3,000m steeplechase were dropped from the Diamond League. This is besides the fact that 10,000m is never featured at the Diamond League level. 2020 World Athletics Continental Tour Gold level calendar 10 May - Tokyo 13 May - Nanjing 22 May - Ostrava 01 Jun - Hengelo 09 Jun - Turku 13 Jun - Kingston 07 Jul - Szekesfehervar 06 Sep - Silesia 15 Sep - Zagreb Tenth meeting to be confirmed