Ousted Nairobi County Assembly Majority leader Abdi Guyo now claims that Governor Mike Sonko is behind the chaos that has rocked the assembly. This even as speaker Beatrice Elachi, whose return to City Hall has been marred by chaos, accused Guyo and clerk Jacob Ngwele of running down the assembly. Guyo and Elachi appeared before the Senate's Devolution and Intergovernmental Committee at different times on Thursday over the chaos that has rocked the city assembly. Guyo claimed that the governor has been sponsoring chaos in the assembly with a sole aim of diving the MCAs. “The problem we have in Nairobi is the governor. The chaos in the County Assembly is well choreographed so as not to have proper oversight," he said. The Matopeni/Spring Valley told the Laikipia Senator John Kinyua-chaired committee that the county chief has been intimidating and blackmailing members who are critical of his administration. He told the committee that the governor has an army of loyal goons, some of whom have been appointed to plum positions in the county, who he has been unleashing to whoever questions his leadership style. Guyo, who was removed from the powerful majority leader seat by Jubilee Secretary General Raphael Tuju on Monday following weeks of chaos marked by teargas and gunshots, said City Hall was headed for the dogs unless President Uhuru Kenyatta intervenes. "The only person who can restore order in Nairobi is our party leader himself. The governor cannot do it because he knows that if he does, then we will properly oversight him," he said. The embattled Assembly leader also took a swipe at the governor claiming that there are more than 6,000 casuals most of who are used as goons whenever they are required. According to Guyo, his woes with the governor started when he questioned why some 16 staff were suspended yet they were not directly involved. While suspending the staff, Sonko said he would not relent in his fight against impunity and blamed the tragedy on some officials in the Urban Planning Department. “I am convinced beyond doubt that drastic measures have to be taken to reverse the effects of years of flouting Physical Planning Regulations and restore order and sanity before illegal structures claim more lives as has repeatedly happened before,” Sonko had said. Elachi, who appeared before the committee alongside the new members of County Assembly Public Service Board - Mark Ndung'u (Hamza) and Maurice Gari (Nairobi West) said that Guyo and the former board members were responsible for the problems at the assembly. Gari also blamed the chaos that has hit the assembly for almost two months to the previous leadership. "Members had asked severally why the clerk's name was never tabled but the previous leadership played cat and mouse games on bringing the name on the floor," he said.