Western Jaguars stand in Butalii's way to the Premier League title as the two sides clash today at the City Park Stadium. Butali beat Jaguars 1-0 in the first leg away in Kakamega. The sugarmen are unbeaten in their last 14 matches and have 36 points. Butali will only need a point in their next match should they beat Jaguars. Butali boast of the deadliest striking partnership of George Mutira and Amos Barkibir with seven each so far. Mutira has reiterated the need for calmness but exuded confidence that they will approach the match with the seriousness it deserves. The last season's top scorer, however, urged teammates to remain steadfast in their quest for the fourth title. He also praised strikers Barkibir and Calvins Kanu for shouldering the goal-scoring burden. The two have scored  11 goals between them. He said: "We are very close to another title glory and on the right path as a team. "Our aim is to become invincible and that calls for discipline, patience and hard work. "Our new strikers have scored quite a number of goals and waved off the pressure from me. They are professionals and the competition is healthy. Our perfect partnership is down to teamwork and understanding during training," said Mutira. Elsewhere, Wazalendo hope to return to winning ways when they take on Parklands. They drew 1-1 with Greensharks on Wednesday. Parklands are flirting with relegation having accumulated seven points hence losing today's match will push them into the lower tier. Struggling Police are tipped to bag three points against inconsistent Strathmore University Gladiators. The last season runners up are placed fourth with 22 points and coach Patrick Mugambi remains confident of a good finish. Strathmore have lost their last three matches and conceded 10 times. Defeats against Butali, Sharks and Jaguars have left coach Meshack Senge charges fighting relegation. Sikh Union hope to overturn 4-1 first leg loss when they take on Greensharks. Ben Owaga's Greensharks though is a well-oiled machine that can trouble any opposition on their day. Sikh need three points to dislodge Gladiators from eighth place.