Former World Marathon champion Geoffrey Kirui believes that working under coach Patrick Sang will aid him to recapture the global title in 2021. Kirui was dethroned by Ethiopia's Lelisa Desisa during the World Athletics Championships held in Doha, Qatar last month but the long-distance runner banks on working under the highly ranked Sang to rule the world again. Kirui revealed that Sang, a senior coach at the Global Sports Communication training camp in Kaptagat, will serve as his head coach from December and hence will have the privilege of rubbing shoulders with the duo of world marathon record holder Eliud Kipchoge and World Half Marathon record holder Geoffrey Kamworor. The self-coached Kirui who has been training at the camp said expectations are high after securing the services of Sang whom he praised for shaping Kipchoge and Kamworor to raise the bar high in their specialities. “For the years I have been running I have never had the luxury of the tactics a coach instils in an athlete. I am glad it is just a matter of days before I start training under  Sang. I used to train in Keringet before shifting to Kaptagat and I don't regret the move,” said the former Africa U-20 10,000m champion He added: “Sang is a respected coach who has helped Kipchoge and Kamworor to break both the full and half marathon records. I believe I will be able to follow suit and hopefully, I will regain my world title in the next edition.” Besides reclaiming the world title, the 2017 Boston Marathon champion hopes to improve his personal best of 2:06:27 under Sang. He disclosed that he had struggled with a nagging tendon injury in the past two months but had recovered  and ready for the new challenge. He, however, remained tight-lipped on his plans for the new season. “I hit my personal best three years ago when I did not have a coach but with Sang, I hope I will slice it soon. "I have had to put up with a tendon injury in the last two months including during the championship but I have recovered and I am looking forward to the new partnership. "I am focusing on building up for the new year even though my management is yet to enrol me for any marathon,” he said.