Former Kebs MD Charles Ongwae and his six co-accused suffered a huge blow after a court declined to compel the DPP to supply them with new evidence in their criminal case. Presiding magistrate Kennedy Cheruiyot said he could not order the Director of Public Prosecutions to supply them with raw data of the tests conducted on the fertiliser alleged to have contained mercury. Ongwae is charged alongside Kenya Bureau of Standards officials Eric Kiptoo (Quality Assurance director), Peter Kinyanjui (Kilindini Port inspection manager), Martin Nyakiamo (Coast regional manager), Pole Mwangeni (Kilindini Port health officer) and KRA official Eric Karimi. They had denied several charges of attempted murder for allowing the importation of substandard fertiliser containing mercury, and abuse of office, among other counts. Yesterday, Cheruiyot ruled, "The prosecution cannot supply what they do not have, despite the fact that the accused persons have the right to receive all the evidential material in the case. The applications lack merit and are hereby dismissed." Earlier, the court heard through Ongwae’s advocate Davis Osiemo that the charges his client faces depend on whether the fertiliser was contaminated or not. Ongwae told the Milimani court that the results of the tests conducted in June last year on the imported 5,846,000 bags of fertiliser were not presented to the court or the accused persons. The court heard that the samples of fertiliser were destroyed. "The prosecution has an obligation to supply all the evidence, both incriminating and exculpatory, to the accused persons," Osiemo said. He said because the DPP entered into plea bargaining with importer OCP Kenya Limited and ordered the unconditional release of the fertiliser, it was critical for the accused to know whether the fertiliser contained mercury. "His actions call into question whether the DPP is exercising his powers in the Constitution in the public interest or his prosecution is a blatant abuse of the legal process which he obliged to prevent,” a court application read. (Edited by F'Orieny)