Despite enduring a goalless stalemate against ten-man Wazito yesterday at the Kenyatta Stadium in Machakos, Kariobangi Sharks coach William Muluya heaped his players with praises for halting their three-match losing streak with the point. Prior to the match, Sharks had lost three consecutive encounters, to Ulinzi Stars, Kisumu All Stars and Zoo Kericho but Muluya welcomed the share of spoils terming it a turning point. Sharks have one win in 11 matches, but the youthful tactician downplayed the pressure to deliver. "Honestly we are in a very unusual rank on the table but I am not worried at all. The draw is a positive result considering that we had lost our past four matches. In our last match we conceded four goals but today we have kept a clean sheet which is positive to us. So long as I am still in charge I am certain we will turn things around," Muluya said. Wazito enjoyed spells of dominance in the opening minutes of the first half but their efforts to break the deadlock were thwarted. The presence of their boss Ricardo Badoer on the terraces seemed to inspire them. Sharks defenders worked overtime to contain the attacking trio of Victor Ndinya, Derrick Onyango and Elvis Rupia. Rupia, who was unfortunate to be stripped off his hattrick registered against the relegated Sony Sugar, was denied by an advancing John Oyemba in the 21st minute in a one on one situation. Oyemba was called into action on a number of occasions as the marauding Wazito threw everything at them in search of the opener. Sydney Lokale will rue a missed scoring chance for Sharks in the 20th minute after Patillah Omoto wittingly picked him in the box but his shot was deflected for a corner. After dominating in the first half, fortunes swung into Sharks favour after Burundian right back Karim Nizigiyimana was sent off in the 55th minute for a career-threatening tackle on Samuel Olwande. However, Wazito managed to contain the pressure until the final whistle to salvage a point. Wazito coach Frank Ouna, who started his second stint with the club, hailed his players for the result. "We lost Karim just ten minutes into the second half but we managed to hold until the final whistle. The boys really wanted the three points and the fighting spirit was commendable. I found a rather demotivated squad but they played for the badge today," observed Ouna. Meanwhile, Western Stima electrocuted KCB 1-0 at the Moi Stadium Kisumu. National U-20  midfielder Benson Omala struck at the death to hand the powermen the three points.