ODM has dumped Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka in favour of Governor Alfred Mutua as new political alliances form ahead of 2022. “ODM will no longer work with Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka ahead of 2022 General Election. We have forged a new political union with Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua's Maendeleo Chap Chap party,” ODM secretary general, Edwin Sifuna said on Saturday. Kalonzo was Raila Odinga's runningmate in 2013 and 2017. He said it was through Mutua and his Chap Chap party that ODM and associates will marshal the Ukambani vote ahead of 2022. He urged the Kamba community to rally behind the new political union. Sifuna spoke at Tulia playgrounds in Kitui West constituency during the homecoming and thanksgiving ceremony of newly elected Chap Chap MCA, Musee Mati. Sifuna said Mutua had demonstrated the ideal political consistency required of a national leader. "We came here as ODM to declare our undertaking to work with Governor Mutua. We will stand by him wherever and whenever he needs us," Sifuna said. Sifuna also thanked governors Kivutha Kibwana (Makueni) and Charity Ngilu (Kitui) for their support to campaign for ODM's Imran Okoth in Kibra. "During the Kibra by-election, ODM was taking stock of our friends and we identified them one by one. We do not want people who are friends by the day and enemies by night," he said. Although he didn't mention names, he appeared to be alluding to Kalonzo, who supported Ford Kenya candidate Khamisi Butichi. At the event, Governor Mutua was installed a Kamba elder and immediately declared he will fearlessly lead the Kamba community to attain the presidency come 2022. "By the authority and power conferred to me by the Akamba Council of Elders, I undertake to now take charge in leading the Kamba community in the next course of the political journey," Mutua said. He said although he respected Kalonzo and his contribution to leadership, it was high time he paved way for a younger leader to take the Kamba to the next level. "I respect Kalonzo. He has done his best in his time. This is now our time to offer leadership. I am urging him to pave way for fresh blood," Mutua said. Mutua at the same time challenged Deputy President William Ruto to resign for openly undermining President Uhuru Kenyatta. The governor said Ruto's opposition to the BBI, which was born out of the handshake between President Kenyatta and Raila presented a divided Jubilee house. "Ruto is clearly undermining the President and this sends a very bad signal. He should do the honourable thing and resign," Mutua said. Nyamira Senator Okong'o Omogeni and MPs Charles Kilonzo (Yatta), Samuel Arama (Nakuru Town West), Justus Kizito (Shinyalu), Rehema Hassan (Tana River) and Jerusha Momanyi (Nyamira) graced the ceremony.