That Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru is positioning herself for bigger things is no doubt. The strategic governor has jolted her critics. From backing the Handshake to being a leading pro-Building Bridges Initiative force in Mt Kenya, Waiguru is on an unknown mission. On Wednesday, she got an opportunity to speak at the Bomas of Kenya convention while many of her colleagues were overlooked. She also hosted a high-powered government delegation in Kirinyaga on Friday led by Interior CS Fred Matiang'i. Has Waiguru set herself on a mission impossible? Only time will tell. Did a popular politician from Nyanza win a contract for the construction of a hospital funded by one of the region's counties? Corridors is informed that the former MP, known to run a massive construction firm, fronted a company owned by his friend whom he paid off after winning the tender. The firm that won the tender is said to have been paid 20 per cent of the contract sum by the ex-MP, who is now supposed to execute the contract. Unfortunately, the former legislator is not in good terms with the governor. Upon learning of the development, the governor is now threatening to cancel the tender worth millions of shillings. A group of activists sipping tea at a not so flashy city hotel were heard saying the movement is divided and unable to take a position on the BBI report. They lamented that some of their colleagues are always spoiling for war with the political elite, yet they do not have the spine to mount a fight. As such, they have been reduced to lamenting on social media, which some have labelled "posh anger". The activists were in agreement that the BBI report is not perfect, however, they should use the reform opportunity to push for some changes, including strengthening the Leadership and Integrity Act. A governor serving his second term and who has 'big ambitions' is in a fix. The county chief has often declared his intentions for bigger seat but the BBI report has sent him back to the drawing board. His close ally has confided that he is weighing his options, with indications might be forced to abandon his initial course. Reason? A political kingpin from the region whose popularity had initially slackened is surging after rebranding with eyes on the presidency. That the governor was angling for anticipated slots in the BBI report came to the fore after he told his allies yesterday that the task force had killed his ambitions. Whether he would successfully sail through the political turmoil remains his biggest headache.