Good morning, President Uhuru Kenyatta will today come face-to-face with rebel leaders allied to his deputy William Ruto in a Mt Kenya only meeting as he fights to rally the region behind the handshake. Uhuru’s Jubilee Party is in turmoil and the President has been unable to make public the Building Bridges Initiative report three weeks after it was completed. Here are the other stories making headlines in the Star this morning. The Gura Hydropower project produces 5.9MW daily, generating Sh1.4 million daily following the rains. KTDA chairman Peter Kanyago on Thursday said the project, which started two years ago, is doing maximum production. “It is currently able to power all our four tea factories and we sell excess power to Kenya Power and Lighting Company,” he said. Kenyans could be reducing their servings of ugali following last week’s media exposé on maize flour contamination with aflatoxin — a cancer-causing contaminant. The exposé aired on a local tv station showed that Kenyans have for decades been exposed to dangerous levels of aflatoxins in maize and maize products.   The gorgeous smiling faces in public of parents with children who require special attention cover strong battles in a society full of stigma, stereotypes and economic hurdles. Parents and teachers say that handling the stigma remains the hardest challenge since most of the perpetrators are mature people they know and have to meet frequently as they go about their lives. Monica Wambui, a mother of a 14-year-old girl with cerebral palsy, told the Star, “I can say our main problem has been the stigma. It is wrong for parents to tell their children not to play with those who require special attention. They should understand that those who require special attention are human beings and can’t harm them.” The first phase of Lamu Port is  75 per cent complete and the first berth is expected to become operational this month. President Uhuru Kenyatta is expected to open the first berth anytime this month, the Kenya Ports Authority management said. The first Maersk container ship is  expected to dock at that time.  The Labour Court has given Kenya Airways approval to briefly hire local contract pilots for its Boeing 737 fleet pending a ruling on November 29. Employment and Labour Relations judge Onesmus Makau issued the directive after KQ and the Kenya Airline Pilots Association (Kalpa) made their submissions in the case on Thursday. 