National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale has said Parliament is the only route that the BBI report can take after the launch. In a statement, Duale said unlike those calling for a referendum, he had read the report and seen nothing that Parliament cannot handle. The Garissa Town MP added that the report's proposals are great and will enhance efficiency if implemented well through legislation and other administrative endevours.. Duale said the report must find its way to Parliament for debate and referral to the Constitutional Implementation Oversight Committee. "This Committee will then be expected in an objective manner to isolate the aspects of BBI Report that will require the amendment of the Constitution for them to be implemented and also map out the recommendations that will require amendment of Acts of Parliament," Duale said. Duale said those who are calling for a referendum have not properly read the recommendations in the report to know how it will be implemented. "Have those people calling for a referendum read the Report to see whether it contains matters relating to Article 255 of the Constitution. I did not see any of these in the Report. So those shouting Referendum should first read the Constitution and the Report concurrently," Duale said. He added that holding a referendum will cost the country amid the tough economics time facing the country. "Would you rather spend and waste billions of shillings on matters that do not require referendum instead of using the same billions to provide services to Kenyans?," Duale posed. He further said that referendum will only be held after exhausting Article 257 of the Constitution, comparing it to the recent Punguza Mizigo Initiative that was defeated. He has questioned the motive of the people pushing for a referendum, adding that Kenyans should be cautious in BBI report for it not to be like other taskforce reports that have never been implemented. Duale said the Truth Justice and Reconciliation Commission Report gathered dust the same way as the Kriegler Report. "The BBI Report should not suffer the same fate. We should not take that route. It’s one of a kind Report which if implemented can certainly bring a smile in the face of Kenyans," Duale said. The report was officially launched on Wednesday at the Bomas of Kenya by President Uhuru Kenyatta. During the launch, Uhuru said Kenyans should take their time and read the report well on their own in order to understand it. Deputy President William Ruto said further changes in the BBI report will be made in line with the Constitution. On Thursday, ODM party leader Raila Odinga dismissed the push for a parliamentary initiative saying Kenyans will vote for the improved document in a referendum. “The process must be people-owned; it must not be taken to Parliament,” Raila said.