ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi has urged Kenyans to be sober and interrogate the BBI report document carefully. Speaking during the official launch of the BBI report at the Bomas of Kenya, Mudavadi said the initiative seeks to correct the shortcomings that were there in the previous systems. "Let us be sober in this discussion. Let us interrogate the document. Let us read it by ourselves. The debate must be all-inclusive and let us be persuaded by the logic of the other idea and that is the way we are going to build a better Kenya," Musalia said. He added that Kenyans should make serious decisions going forward and that we must listen to each other to build a better Kenya. "Let us not put people in silos. Every Kenyan has a right to speak about this document so that we can all find a long-lasting solution. Let us be careful on how we handle the process henceforth," he said. Musalia also urged the public not to convert the BBI document into a political elite document because the BBI is not about sharing political positions. "Everybody here is talking about sharing political seats. What about motivating the civil servants, the teacher, the private sector? We are beginning to fall into the same trap again by making it look like the BBI  is about sharing political positions. My understanding is that the BBI is bigger than sharing political positions, so can we focus as Kenyans and get there and let us all interrogate. And what is ailing us? Economy," he said. Mudavadi stated that something should be done to deal with Kenyans who are unemployed. He said Kenya is one of the few countries where one can call a public rally at Uhuru Park on a weekday and it will be full because of unemployment. Kenya will see the return of the position of Prime Minister if the Building Bridges Initiative Taskforce proposals are to be implemented in full. The BBI team appeared to make proposals that would lead Kenyans to a referendum with all proposal made likely to come through Bills or policy changes. The report proposes that Kenyans continue to elect their President who remains the Head of State and Government. The report also says that the Deputy President should remain the principal assistant to the President and will be the running mate. The President will then appoint an MP from the largest party or coalition in Parliament as Prime Minister who will take up the position after being approved by Parliament. The report adds that the Prime Minister shall have supervision and execution of the day-to-day functions and affairs of the Government. "The Prime Minister shall be the Leader of Government Business in the National Assembly. On the President’s tasking, the Prime Minister will chair Cabinet sub-committees," it says.