A section of Jubilee MCA allied to ousted Majority Leader Abdi Hassan Guyo is now calling for an election to solve the City Hall wrangles. The MCAs led by Mowlem Ward Rep Benson Mwangi said that they also have a voice and the party should lend them a listening ear. The move comes two days after the party made temporary changes of the Jubilee leadership in the county assembly which saw with Majority Leader Abdi Guyo and majority whip Waithera Chege ousted from their positions. On Tuesday, a letter from Jubilee Secretary General Rapel Tuju said that the party had decided to temporarily replace Guyo with Dandora III MCA Charles Thuo while Waithera’s place was taken over by nominated MCA June Ndegwa. Ziwani Kariokor MCA Millicent Mugadi was made the deputy majority leader in place of Riruta MCA James Kiriba. However, Guyo slammed the changes saying no law was followed in the alleged changes explaining such changes can only be done by following Standing Order 20 of the County Assembly or Article 19 of Jubilee Party constitution. The Guyo-allied MCAs said that the standing order gives the whip to call for a party meeting after a member has notified him or her of such an agenda, a discussion on the removal of the majority leader as the agenda takes place, minutes taken complete with a list of party members present and then the majority leader is replaced. "It is such a pity that Jubilee Party can turn from being a democratic party to a dictatorship. Our standing orders are very clear on the procedure on the removal of any leadership position in the assembly. Because the other side has found out difficult in genuinely raising signatures, they resulted to turn to the dictatorial process," Mwangi explained. The MCAs said they respect their party however the law should be followed. In the same meeting, it was said that the former Senator Beatrice Elachi was to be the Speaker. "There a list already drawn where here were names proposed to be part of the Jubilee leadership. But issues of the leadership we pleaded and requested to come up with our own list t choose the people we can work with and we were allowed. This is what we call democracy," Mwangi said. The MCAs also said that the wrangles within the Jubilee MCAs were escalating because of the interference with their counterparts from ODM. "This is a Jubilee Affair and as much as their handshake it is important that our counterparts from the minority side keep off," they said.