The body of the slain Star journalist Eric Oloo will be laid to rest today at his Ugunja home. The body was on Friday moved from the mortuary to his home awaiting today's burial. Oloo was killed in the house of chief inspector Sabina Kerubo in unclear circumstances last week on Wednesday. The Star journalist is believed to have been killed by brothers in a suspected love triangle involving the officer. Kerubo is the Deputy OCS at Ugunja Police Station. Postmortem report showed that Oloo died from trauma caused by injury to his head and abdomen. Government pathologist Gabriel Juma on Sunday said Oloo died as a result of excessive bleeding. "The body had a blunt injury on the head and a severe hemorrhage intra-abdominally as a result of the blunt injury on the abdomen," Juma said. He spoke at Sega Funeral Home where the autopsy was conducted after the body was transferred from Ambira Hospital Mortuary. Juma said Oloo could have been hit by a blunt object as internal bleeding was witnessed.  He said trauma may not have been caused by a sharp object. However, out of five suspects, only two brothers have been arraigned. Kerubo, her daughter and house help who were in the house at the time of Oloo’s murder, have not been arraigned. Efforts to get a comment from relevant authorities on why they have not been presented to court have yielded no fruits as no officer is willing to comment. At the moment, it’s still unclear whether Kerubo is in custody. Sources privy to the case indicate that the police could be doctoring the investigation to save one of their own. It’s alleged that by Thursday, the officers handling the case were struggling on how to record a statement from Kerubo, one week after the incident. Our sources also indicated that the report from which the charge sheet is to be drawn has too many gaps to support Oloo’s case. It’s alleged that deliberate mistakes were made by officers handling the case including not taking pictures of the crime scene. The other loophole in the report is the failure to indicate what caused Oloo’s death despite the preliminary autopsy indicating that he died of trauma from a blunt object. Earlier, Oloo’s family had sensed a foul play on whether justice will be served after Kerubo and two other suspects failed to be presented in court on Monday. The family indicated that they were surprised only two suspects, Victor Luta and his brother Franklin Luta, were arraigned despite the five suspects allegedly being arrested on Thursday. Led by the mother, Kezia Oloo, the family said they don’t want to speculate but "it’s not clear as to why one was allegedly arrested on Thursday and one week later she has not been presented to the court." “How do we put it when the prime suspect Kerubo, her house help and daughter who were arrested alongside Victor and Franklin are not presented before the court to tell us what they know about my son’s death,” Kezia said.