A High Court judge and seven homeowners embroiled in a property dispute with a private developer in Nairobi’s upmarket Lavington area want a law firm disqualified from the case. The law firm of Ogola Okello & Co LLP Advocates acted for the developer during the sale of the houses, say the judge and other homeowners. They include judge Joel Ngugi and seven homeowners including Angela Musimba, Stephen Githinji, Charles Mukiri and Evans Kipkemoi Sigilai they are represented by Senior counsel Paul Muite. The case involves two adjacent plots with a common access road. On 29 October justice Elija Obaga issued orders stopping Guangzhou Villas Ltd from constructing on a disputed plot adjacent to the one where Ngugi's and the other seven houses stand. They have accused the developer of planning new developments on the disputed plot, without consulting them or informing them on the nature of the developments. Muite told Justice Elijah Obaga that the firm of Ogola Okello & Co LLP Advocates is a material witness in the case and should not be allowed to participate. Muite said after Ngugi and the rest occupied the houses for close to a decade and being promised amenities such as a gymnasium, gardens and other usual amenities would be put on the disputed plot, the law firm wrote to them saying that the two plots would not be amalgamated, as had been guaranteed. Muite said the issue of amalgamation is central to his clients' case and he would want to cross-examine the firm on why they decided not to have the two plots amalgamated. “We will need to call the firm as a witness on the issue of amalgamation because it’s a critical pillar of the plaintiff’s case,” he said However, Ochieng Odhiambo for the developer said the case should be handled by an arbitrator based on the contents of a contract that was signed when they purchased the houses. Odhiambo said Muite did not provide any evidence to warrant the disqualification of the law firm. The court will rule on November 14. The homeowners sued Fred Rabongo, his wife Mary Akatch, Ogola, Impulse Holdings, Muthangari Gardens Management Ltd and Dayax Investments Ltd.  They claimed that when the nine maisonettes were approved for occupation and certificates of occupation issued, the two plots were subject to amalgamation. In an affidavit, Jane Sigilai claims that she, Ngugi Sylvia Kang’ara, Evans Sigilai, Angela Musimba, Stephen Kamau, Charles Mukiri and john Wachira are separately the owners of various maisonettes all erected upon the parcel. The dominant property comprises nine maisonettes. They claim that since purchasing the massionettes, they have been paying land rent and land rates and other outgoings due on the massionettes as the owners and lessees from Impulse Holdings Limited. “Guangzhou with the assistance of and in collusion with others have illegally and unlawfully trespassed into the aforesaid land and it has demolished the gate and wall securing our premises,” reads Jane’s affidavit. But the developer says the order issued on October 29 has caused them great hardship and financial loss and ought to be varied. (Edited by V. Graham)