Kenya will on Friday take over the leadership of the powerful Nile Basin Initiative Council of Ministers amid the dispute over the use of the resource. The council is the highest political and decision-making agency of the basin. On Wednesday, Water CS Simon Chelugui who is set to take over from Burundi said he will use diplomacy and persuasion to end the wrangles. "We have skills and strategies such as persuasion and diplomacy and cooperative framework agreement that will be applied," the CS said. He is set to assume leadership for one year. Countries that use the Nile Basin have not been at ease, which risks escalating into full-blown conflict. Ethiopia sees the hydroelectric dam as a defining national development project; Sudan covets the cheap electricity and expanded agricultural production the basin promises; while Egypt perceives the possible loss of water as an existential threat. The changes in leadership are in line with the Nile Basin Initiative tradition of annually rotating the position among the member states. On Friday, Ministers from Burundi, DRC, Egypt, Ethiopia, Kenya, Rwanda, South Sudan, Sudan, Tanzania, and Uganda will also consider approving the work plan and budget for the initiative secretariat. The Nile Equatorial Lakes Subsidiary Action Programme Coordination Unit 2019-20 will also be approved. Chelugui, who was accompanied by Nile Basin Initiative Professor Seifeldin Abdalla at Raddison Blu Hotel in Nairobi said Kenya is an upstream country, with the basin bordering Lake Victoria in the country's west. "Although it makes up only about nine per cent of the country's total area, the basin provides about 50 per cent of Kenya's water," Chelugui said. The major rivers that contribute to river Nile flow are Nzoia, Yala, Nyando, Migori and Mara. All the rivers provide a substantial percentage of the inflow into Lake Victoria, which eventually flows out into Victoria Nile, which contributes most of the flow of the White Nile further downstream. Chelugui said some of the fears and anxiety will be settled. Abdalla said Ethiopia, Rwanda, Tanzania, Kenya, Uganda and Burundi have signed a cooperative framework agreement of the basin. Kenya signed the agreement on May 19 and the ratification process is being finalised. The Nile Basin regional hydro-met project, the first of its kind for the basin, will be launched on Friday. Under the project, six stations will be upgraded and installed. These are Nzoia Ruambwa, Yale Kadenge, Nyando, Miriu Sondu, Gucha Migori, and Mara. Upon completion, the $5.5 million (Sh550 million) project is expected to share reliable data on water inflows and outflows in the basin. Member states will get reliable information for monitoring the shared resources for informed planning and evidence-based decision making. This comes even as wrangles among Ethiopia, Egypt and Sudan remain unresolved. Edited by R.Wamochie