A political war has erupted between global football’s main men, after Fifa President Gianni Infantino attempted to flex his muscles by rushing through a new role to oversee African football. Uefa president Aleksander Ceferin accused Infantino of reducing the Fifa Bureau of the Council’s purpose to a ‘rubber stamp function’ after a letter calling for the council’s swift approval was sent ‘in the middle of the night’ and with a deadline deemed ‘far too short’. Sportsmail has seen evidence of the almighty dispute, which centres on Infantino’s proposal for a new position to be created to clean up football in Africa. Infantino was only re-elected to the most powerful role in world football earlier this month, and this move will be seen as an early power play. In letters to the members of the Bureau of the Council, which is made up of the regional confederation leaders, Infantino laid out his reasons for wanting to appoint a Fifa General Delegate for Africa and why Fifa Secretary General Fatma Samoura was his proposed candidate. He wrote: “In light of the current exceptional situation facing CAF (Confederation of African Football), we are requesting the Bureau of the Council to support the decision to appoint, on a temporary basis, a Fifa General Delegate for Africa, acting under the authority of both CAF and Fifa.” “The aim of this mission is amongst others to lead a team providing the relevant expertise, ensuring that the necessary reforms are implemented within CAF at all levels. Tasks will also include reviewing the operational management of CAF, including governance and administrative procedures, ensuring the efficient and professional organization of all CAF competitions and supporting the growth and development of football in all countries and regions of CAF. The proposed Fifa General Delegate for Africa is Fatma Samoura, current Fifa Secretary General.” Infantino added that the proposal had the support of CAF President Ahmad and that Samoura would continue in her role at Fifa but would ‘delegate her functions within the Fifa administration in accordance with the relevant internal regulations’. Yet, Ceferin opposed the proposal in a strongly-worded response, in which he criticised the deadline given and the lack of an official document confirming CAF’s support, raised doubts over whether the proposal ‘complies with both Fifa and CAF statutes’ and voiced concerns over ‘possible conflicts of interest’. “I understand the CAF’s current difficult situation and welcome the efforts undertaken by all parties to improve it,” he wrote. “However, even with the best will in the world to help CAF, I cannot for the time being approve the detailed proposal set out in your letter.” Having outlined the four main issues with Infantino’s proposal, he concluded: “For these various reasons, I am sure you will fully understand that, in the current state of affairs and without additional information from you, I cannot approve the proposal set out in your letter sent to the Fifa Bureau of the Council members to appoint a Fifa General Delegate for Africa.”