The Kikuyu Council of Elders has raised concern over the early 2022 campaigns which they said threaten the country political and social stability. The council's secretary general Peter Munga, in a statement by the elders, urged Deputy President William Ruto to 'control' his presidential ambitions and respect Uhuru. Munga said Ruto should instead concentrate on helping the President manage the affairs of the nation. “It is very disheartening to see the 2022 succession politics taking centre stage led by none other than DP Ruto with others who should be working with the very electorate who put them in office,” they said. The elders said the campaigns have hindered smooth service delivery to the citizens negatively impacting the national development agenda. They called on politicians to respect the President saying Uhuru and his deputy swore to lead the country in achieving the objectives set out in the Jubilee manifesto. The elders were addressing the media at Kabiru-ini ASK grounds in Nyeri County on Saturday. They warned political leaders promising the DP or any other leader the Kikuyu community votes in 2022 to stop. The elders insisted they do not owe the leaders their votes and that they have never discussed any electoral pact with the elders from any other community. “This community shall choose a leader when the time comes based on character, credibility and performance. This mandate squarely belongs to the community,” they said in the statement. They pledged their support to the government on the fight against corruption and theft of public funds saying the fight is not politics or ethnic victimisation. The DP was urged to stop defending the officials suspected of theft in Central Kenya as he did a few weeks ago with Kiambu governor Ferdinand Waitutu. The council also declared total support for the handshake between Uhuru and former Prime Minister Raila Odinga saying it has brought tangible benefits and peace to millions of Kenyans and reduced ethnic tensions. They hailed the government for introducing the new currency saying it will address the problems of corruption and theft of public funds. They said all politicians from all corners of the country are free to visit Nyeri to solicit for votes.