Operatives in Harambee House and others who ran President Uhuru Kenyatta's campaign are said to be holding meetings to counter Deputy President William Ruto's wave in Mt Kenya. It is said that the operatives have brought on board some Cabinet Secretaries, Principal Secretaries and heads of state corporations. Their plan, according to those familiar with the plot, is to tame the influence of pro-Ruto MPs in the region while promoting the handshake between Uhuru and opposition leader Raila Odinga. They are also supposed to counter the narrative that the President has lost the grip on the Mt Kenya region for not delivering development. Sources within government say the group has been called for two meetings at a Nairobi Hotel on Thika Road. Phones are not allowed in the meeting. During the first meeting in late May, participants were taken through the plan but most never attended the second session. "Some felt like they were being talked down to and threatened to get deeply involved in politics," one source told the Star. The discussions revolved around how one of the CSss would take up the leadership role of coordinating their plans. This offended some in the group who believe that the CS has no clout to muster regional support. Another instruction was that they must work with the county administrators in the region to ensure that all national government projects are on track. After the' boycotted' second meeting two weeks ago, the convener is said to have gone slow on the plot, especially after the issue leaked to the President and his deputy. A showdown is also looming in Parliament where a  section of President Kenyatta's allies are pushing for the removal of Ruto's lieutenants from leadership positions. In what would trigger a fresh storm in the ruling party, the lawmakers on Wednesday maintained that Ruto's troops who hold strategic positions in the National Assembly and the Senate must be removed for sabotaging the President. The MPs who spoke to the Star alleged that the DP's men are secretly scheming to frustrate the President's agenda in Parliament, dealing his legacy plan a staggering blow. The DP's allies have denounced the war on corruption, launched a vicious onslaught against the handshake and opposed the referendum push. They have argued that President Uhuru's truce with his nemesis-turned-friend Raila Odinga was aimed at ruining Jubilee's succession matrix — Ruto's chances to succeed him. But, the President's men have insisted that his legacy could go up in smoke if the Tangatanga team is not tamed in Parliament where the DP is enjoying considerable support. "There is no way we can have someone, who has taken a public position against the President, chairing a crucial committee of the House," Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu told the Star. Ruto's men hold sway in powerful National Assembly committees such as  Budget and Appropriations, Finance and Planning, Energy, Justice and Legal Affairs, Transport and Public Works and Education. National Assembly Majority Whip Benjamin Washiali is among top National Assembly leaders vouching for Ruto's 2022 presidential bid. Besides, Speaker Kenneth Lusaka, Majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen and Majority Whip Susan Kihika  Ruto has high-ranking positions in the Senate. Ngunjiri, a leading proponent of the Kieleweke wing of Jubilee that opposes Ruto in 2022 said it was time for a grand house cleaning. " I completely agree that we need to relook at our leadership in the House and in the committees so that we reconstitute them afresh. There is need that the committees be headed by people who have proved to be committed to the President's agenda," he said. He said the MPs who have 'turned' against Uhuru were given the positions so that they would support the President's agenda in the bicameral House and not oppose him. "Now that they are opposed to the President's legacy agenda, they need to relinquish the positions. Tangatatanga people are heading crucial committees in the House," he added. He identified  Budget and Appropriations Committee chairman and Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichung'wa as one of the people targeted for removal. "We can't have someone who has publicly opposed the President heading the Budget committee. What will he do if the President brings a supplementary budget for the handshake team which he is opposed to? Will that bill go through?" Ngunjiri asked. Cherangany MP Joshua Kuttuny joined the fray, calling for a massive shake-up in the leadership of Parliament and House Committees. "The clean-up in parliamentary committees is long overdue. Most of the House leaders who serve in their positions at the behest of the party are opposing the President's agenda and this is unacceptable," he said. He went on, "The people who hold House leadership positions courtesy of the party must be individuals who subscribe to the ideologies of the President." He said the Jubilee Party secretary general Raphael Tuju must be ready to kick start the process of replacing the errant House leaders. "I think this is an issue even the President is thinking about," he added. National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale yesterday said the House leadership and committee chairpersons are picked by the party leadership at State House "If there is any change of guard it must be through a meeting at State House chaired by the party leader. Those are the instructions that I have," the Garissa Town MP told the Star. He warned team Tangatanga and Kieleweke against bringing their politics into the legislature, saying there is nothing so far to necessitate a parliamentary group meeting. "In Parliament, we don't have team Tangatanga or Kieleweke. We are a one Jubilee family. They should not bring their affairs into the running of the assembly," he said. Washiali cautioned the MPs pushing for the shake-up, saying it will not be a walk in the park. "I hope it is not one or two people waking up one morning and starting to think that it easy to remove a House leader. It is not a simple matter," the Mumias East MP said. However, he noted that they will not be opposed to any bid to remove them from their offices if the Standing Orders and the party constitution are respected. "Some of us hold these positions because we represent regions and other parties. I have no problem if they have satisfactory grounds and the right procedure is followed," he said. The process of the removal House leaders  —Majority or minority leaders and their whips — is a rigorous process that must be triggered by the sponsor party itself. Once the party makes such a resolution, it writes to the Speaker who in turn communicates to the House to effect the decision. However, a member can table a motion on the House to censure any of the leaders to compel their party to discipline them. But for the removal of a committee chairperson, members can on their own remove a chairperson or vice chairperson, provided such a motion is approved by the speaker and supported by the majority of members. Ruto's men claim it will be an uphill task to remove them from their lucrative slots given the massive support the DP enjoys. However, the bid could easily become a reality if the President goes full-throttle to exploit the handshake deal with his soulmate Raila Odinga. Amani National Congress Party leader Musalia Mudavadi and Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, who have been warming up to the President's agenda, might also be critical in removing errant Jubilee chairpersons. Jubilee has  171 MPs, ODM 76, Wiper 23 MPs and ANC 14.