Rio Ferdinand has fueled speculation of him becoming Manchester United’s new sporting director by admitting he would relish a return to the club. Sportsmail revealed back in April that the former defender had met with Ed Woodward to discuss taking over the vacant role. United owners — the Glazer family — have been keen to get Ferdinand on board since his retirement four years ago, but personal circumstances made it unworkable. Despite currently working as a pundit for BT Sport, Ferdinand confessed he would be interested in taking a major role at the club. “At the end of the day, I’m human and everyone knows the relationship that I’ve got with Manchester United and the love I’ve got for that club,” Ferdinand told BBC RM Sport. “So, if I’m asked to play some sort of role at the football club, have that conversation, of course, I would. I’d have that sit and chat and then you’d flesh out what that role is and if there’s a possibility to do it or not. But again, as I said, I’m very happy on the sofa, in my seat, in the studio.” United began restructuring the club some months ago but are still weighing up appointing someone to guide transfer strategy and oversee negotiations while being in tune with manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer. Ferdinand, who was identified as a strong candidate to fulfil that role by Woodward given his United history, is still yet to hear back if he will be given the job. While the United icon, 40, admitted that the thought of the job ‘turns him on,’ he insisted he would not lose any sleep if Woodward decided to offer it to someone else. He told BBC radio’s Sportsweek: “I’ve always spoken to Ed since I Ieft, anyway. I had that type of relationship with him. I’ve not seen him at a game so all the chats I’ve had with him have been on the phone or I go and see him when I’m in London.” “I’m not the type to dilly-dally around. I’ve seen the stuff in the paper. What’s that role about? I’ve asked that question — so yeah, I have spoken to him. I’m very honest and Ed’s open and honest with me. Manchester United and the powers that be will decide as and when they are going to put someone into that role.” “If I am the person on that list and the person they are going to talk to, then that time will come. It’s nice to be on a list in such a responsible role at such a prestigious club. If the call comes I will say, 'thank you very much for that'. But if that call doesn’t come, I’ll not lose sleep over it.”