With Romelu Lukaku believed to be close to a summer exit, Manchester United are reported to be planning a shock move for Arsenal striker Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang. Arsenal would likely be unwilling to sell one of the star assets to a direct rival but United fans will remember Robin van Persie’s arrival in 2012 and the impact he went on to have for the club. Inter Milan are keen on Lukaku and Italian newspaper Tuttosport reports that Aubameyang has ‘said yes’ to the possibility of a move to United to replace the Belgian. Aubameyang has impressed in the Premier League for the Gunners since joining from Borussia Dortmund for £54million. He finished last season as joint-top goal scorer, claiming the Golden Boot with 22 goals as Arsenal finished fifth, narrowly missing out on Champions League football. At the age of 30, Aubameyang would appear to be an anomaly to United boss Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s plan to target young, homegrown players such as Daniel James and Aaron Wan-Bissaka. But Aubameyang has proven pedigree as a centre forward in the Premier League and any arrival would instantly see goals added in the side. Lukaku’s form tailed off midway through the campaign and he soon found himself out of the side with Solskjaer in charge. It is believed that Marcus Rashford will be the club’s No 9 as it stands with Inter Milan pushing to secure Lukaku, with reports in Italy stating he is the Italian side’s priority signing this summer. United have already stated they will not entertain Inter Milan’s proposed £63m deal for the Belgian. He arrived from Everton two years ago and United are determined to recoup most, if not all, of they initial outlay on Lukaku. The initial offer Inter prepared, a two-year loan worth £9m and an obligation to buy for a further £54m, falls short of United’s valuation. Elsewhere, Chelsea have turned down a fresh approach from Bayern Munich for Callum Hudson Odoi. The Bundesliga champions are understood to have offered £22.4million for the England international. Hudson-Odoi is in the final year of his contract and currently recovering from an Achilles injury. However, Chelsea are offering the 18-year old a new five year contract as they want him to stay and develop under their new manager with Frank Lampard primed to take charge. Bayern believe Hudson Odoi still wants to join them. The winger is making a quicker than expected return following the setback he suffered when he ruptured his achilles against Burnley in April. Hudson-Odoi is due to head back to Barcelona, where he had his operation, in the next fortnight for another check-up with the renowned surgeon Ramon Cugat who carried out the procedure to repair his achilles. The young winger is currently recovering from an Achilles injury sustained in April