John Stones has won the treble with Manchester City but it’s not enough: the England defender says he now has an addiction to silverware. And he is determined that his England team-mates get to share the winning habit at the inaugural Uefa Nations League in Portugal next week. England battled through a qualifying group with World Cup finalists Croatia and Euro 2012 winners Spain to qualify for their semi-final against Holland on Thursday. They will play either Switzerland or Portugal in the final if they win and have the opportunity to claim England’s first trophy since 1966. Stone said: “The chance we’ve got is so new: a new tournament that we can go and win. There are boys here who have not won or been in any finals and [haven’t experienced] what it’s like to win something or fight for something so special.” “And I want to give them that hunger of something so special, so addictive. When you lift a trophy and know that you’ve been the best in whatever competition, it is it’s something so special. I can’t describe it in any other way. It’s so addictive. To have that memory in your head. When I think back now of lifting that trophy [the FA Cup] at Wembley up on the balcony, it’s something that will never leave your mind. It’s so unique when you can’t have anyone say they were better than you.” Stones says that Spain international David Silva, who won the 2010 World Cup Euro 2008 and 2012, teases him about England’s lack of success at international football, so he relishes the prospect of winning a trophy for the national team, even in a less prestigious competition. “That’s the exciting bit for me,” said Stones. “David Silva is always making fun of me and he’ll send me a picture of the three things he’s won; the World Cup and two Euros [saying]: “This might be you one day.” That’s something that he’s so proud of. I don’t want to say that I can’t imagine it. I couldn’t imagine it years ago happening but now we’re so close to something special, I can’t imagine what the scenes would be like if we do it. And touch wood we do, because it would be something special for all of us, even you guys sat here.” Previous England camps have been riven with rifts between players at the major clubs, but even though Tottenham and Liverpool players will have just returned from battling it out in the Champions League final, and City have beaten Liverpool in an extraordinary title race, Stones says that the bonds in this squad, forged at the World Cup last year, are so tight that club rivalries won’t be an issue. “It will fall back into place,” said Stones, of the team spirit. “I think when you look at it when we’ve had the rivalry all season, as soon as the game is done we’ve seen it with many players, the games done and that’s it done. It’s something you can’t hold on to.” “Obviously with the Spurs and Liverpool boys it will be a different scenario, in that they’re fighting for something unique. Only one team can win it and there will be a lot of emotion from both teams. But they have to put that aside and focus on the job ahead and I’m sure they’ll do that as they’re great characters as people.” “I don’t think they’re selfish enough to hold something against another player or one that plays for a different team when we’re coming together to fight for something. I know players who in the past would have done that, where they’re held a bit of a grudge or held that emotion of something that hurt. It’s a quick turnaround for those boys, with the game on Saturday. It will still be raw for a lot of them. But I’m really positive they’ll come in the right frame of mind.” And Stones insists that England need to treat the Nations League as an important stepping stone to more significant success. ‘It’s not the biggest tournament but if there’s a trophy there to be won there’s no way you can say it’s nowhere near as important as another. “The Nations League is so important, for a country that for 45 years [it’s actually 53!] has not done anything. I remember last summer saying that I just wanted to make the nation proud of the England team again, make people feel hope, bring back that happiness that comes with English football. I think we did that successfully and the next stage is bringing some silverware home.”