Nairobi has been named Africa’s leading business travel destination, while KICC has been awarded Africa’s leading meetings and conference destination at this year's World Travel Award. “We are honoured to receive these awards. The awards truly attest to the fact that Nairobi and KICC offers the best MICE experience in the region,” KICC CEO Nana Gecaga said on Saturday. She spoke in Mauritius after receiving the accolades. “To win such a prestigious international award is a huge boost and motivation for the Tourism sector. This award goes out to all of us in the meetings industry who work tirelessly to ensure that we are at the top of our game,” Gecaga said. She expressed gratitude to everyone who voted for Kenyan brands. KICC beat various nominees in the category including Cairo Convention Centre in Egypt, Cape Town Convention Centre in South Africa, Durban Convention Centre in South Africa, Kigali Convention Centre in Rwanda, Palais Des Congress Marrakech in Morocco, and Sandton Convention Centre in South Africa. This is the first time KICC has participated in the awards, and took the award from Durban who have held it for the last nine years. The award will spearhead Kenya’s marketing campaigns positioning the destination as attractive for meetings, incentives travel, conferences and exhibitions even as the country is embarking on increasing Its Conventions and conference facilities. This is the second time Nairobi has been named Africa’s Leading Meetings and Conference Destination having taken the award in 2016. The city beat other top African destinations including Durban, Cape Town and Kigali to win Africa’s Leading Business Travel Destination. KICC, the parastatal mandated to market Kenya’s conference tourism globally has over the years worked greatly towards ensuring that Kenya retains its position as the most preferred destination for Business events in Africa Kenya has recently raised its profile owing to the high-end international conferences it has hosted in the recent past, thereby making its bid to host more international conferences much easier. Kenya’s conference tourism is still going a notch higher with a number of conference bids the country is placing to host. WTA was established in 1993 to acknowledge, reward and celebrate excellence across all sectors of the tourism industry. World Travel awards is the travel and hospitality industry’s most prestigious awards programme.