Deontay Wilder has slammed Eddie Hearn and accused him of forcing Anthony Joshua into a rematch with Andy Ruiz Jnr. Ruiz pulled off one of the greatest shocks in boxing history on Saturday night, beating the favourite Joshua at Madison Square Garden to capture his heavyweight titles. There was a rematch clause written into the contract for the first fight and Hearn exercised it on Tuesday, with Joshua and Ruiz to meet again in November or December. But WBC heavyweight Wilder is refusing to believe Joshua himself is keen on meeting Ruiz again in the ring. Speaking on Talksport on Wednesday morning, Wilder said: “Has AJ said it? Has Anthony said it himself? I don’t care what Matchroom says. “We’re tired of hearing what Eddie says. This man has said so many different things. We ain’t listening to what Matchroom says. We only want him to do what’s best for him and his career, not Matchroom. “I don’t see how you can’t get it at this point. I don’t think it’s gonna happen. Did you see what just happened? This man is mentally broken. He quit. Joshua quit in that ring. To a challenger. “That’s the most disappointing thing about it. Being a champion, being boosted up so much, and you go in there and quit, that’s a sign. When he spat that mouthpiece out for the first time, that’s a sign. “The referee told him to come forward he stayed there. He put his hands on the ropes. The referee told him to come forward. He stayed. That’s another indication, “I don’t want to fight no more”. “He gave up. He quit. Because of so much pressure. His promoters put so much pressure on him. He probably didn’t want that much pressure on him. He shouldn’t have had to think about what I done. “It was a lot of pressure and people won’t understand that. I heard he was having a breakdown in the dressing room. “Hearn said the rematch is going to happen. Y’all think he’s going to take it. Anthony says he doesn’t know, he might take some time off. Two things are not the same. “Until Joshua says he’s signing that contract and fighting, that’s when I’ll believe it. Until then, you shouldn’t hold your breath.” Joshua was floored four times as he surrendered his WBA, WBO and IBF titles at Madison Square Garden on Saturday. The defeat had boxing fans baffled as to how Joshua, the heavyweight champion, was comprehensively beaten by Ruiz. On Tuesday, Hearn had dismissed all speculation surrounding the Brit’s well-being ahead of the fight. It was claimed that Joshua wanted to pull out after having a panic attack moments before his ring-walk and some have used it as explanation for his delayed entrance and his father’s furious reaction to the end of the fight. Joshua looked disorientated on a number of occasions during the fight and speculation ran amok with TV not permitted access to his dressing room as normal after the fight. The former unified world champion appeared worryingly confused during the fight after taking several heavy blows from Ruiz and was heard asking his trainer Rob McCracken: ‘What round is it? Why am I feeling like this?’ Hearn addressed the rumours this week, writing on Twitter: ‘Panic attack? I’ve heard all sorts of things - there was no issue at all going into the fight.’ There was also a number of assessments online that suggested Joshua had been dropped just weeks before the fight at Madison Square Garden. It has been claimed he was dropped by Agit Kabayel, the European champion, which has also been held up as a reason why Joshua had marks on his face ahead of his knockout defeat by Ruiz. But Hearn told Sportsmail on Monday night that Joshua was not decked by any of his partners and that Kabayel was never involved in sparring. Wilder added: “I heard he got knocked out in sparring and his dad didn’t want him to fight. Hearn being Hearn, he wanted him to get in there as there was a lot at stake. “If a fighter doesn’t want to fight, because someone’s seeing something, you can’t force him to fight. It’s easy for the guy outside collecting the check, who is not getting hit one time. “If he wasn’t feeling right, if something was wrong, if he was knocked over in sparring… everyone’s seen his eyes and the way he was.”