Barcelona are in talks with Valencia to switch goalkeepers, with Jasper Cillessen going to Mestalla and Neto moving to the Camp Nou. Catalan Radio RAC 1 have reported that the deal would see Barcelona pay for Neto now — giving Valencia what they need to balance the books before June 30 and Valencia in turn would then kick the accounting of the purchase of Cillessen into the next financial year. Everyone’s a winner except the Barcelona supporters waiting to see some evidence of the rebuilding they believe is necessary after that failed tilt at a treble. They will not be moved by a goalkeeping swap. As Real Madrid seem to unveil a new signing everyday, everything at Barcelona appears to be on hold, and there are two major reasons why that is the case. The first is that Real Madrid finished the season trophyless and 19 points off the pace in La Liga – their need was far greater than Barcelona’s hence the almost daily good news event. The second reason for Barcelona’s relative inactivity is that the player whose signing they most want to announce cannot be revealed until July 1 and the player whose sale they would most like to push through is at the Copa America. Antoine Griezmann currently has a release clause of Sh22.8bn. That will drop to Sh13.6bn on July 1. “Griezmann will go to Barcelona, it’s been known since March,” Atletico Madrid chief executive Miguel Angel Gil Marin told Spanish TV last week. Barcelona reacted as if that statement had been a trap. They don’t want to be accused of having agreed terms with Griezmann while his clause was still Sh22.9bn. It’s a tricky situation and the club’s president Josep Maria Bartomeu cautiously said on Monday that ‘there is nothing [in relation to Griezmann]’ but that ‘we will see how the market develops.’ The man who could be most adversely affected by Griezmann’s arrival is Philippe Coutinho. He continues to insist that he has been misused at Barcelona. The club signed him as a midfielder to replace Andres Iniesta but have used him as a third striker playing alongside Lionel Messi and Luis Suarez. With Griezmann arriving to contest that third spot in attack with Ousmane Dembele then Coutinho looks further from Valverde’s ideal starting XI than ever. His price tumbled last season but it’s on the rise again as his goals carry Brazil forward in the Copa America and Barcelona are waiting to see if the host nation’s progress continues to drive Coutinho’s price up. Elsewhere, the Matthijs de Ligt situation also remains in suspended animation. Centre-back was actually not a priority for Barcelona because they had Gerard Pique, Clement Lenglet, Samuel Umtiti and Jean-Clair Todibo to cover the two positions. But the 19-year-old Ajax captain looks the perfect long-term replacement for Pique and he wants to move now. Barcelona’s unwillingness to match the sort of money on the table from Paris Saint- Germain and possibly Juventus suggests De Ligt will not end up in Catalonia but he’s still on holiday in Miami pondering his future. There is still time for him to opt for Barcelona or for Barcelona to increase their offer – something that will depend on them selling players - and none more likely to bring in a big fee than Coutinho. Atletico Madrid are interested in signing Barcelona full-back Nelson Semedo and Valencia are also interested in Rafinha and Denis Suarez but Barcelona’s sales have been as slow as Madrid’s. Players will eventually begin to leave, the Copa America will reach its conclusion, and Griezmann’s buy-out clause will reach July 1 and drop to 13.7bn. Then his buyer can step out of the shadows. Barcelona will finally be able to play catch-up with Madrid. But in the mean time they have to sit tight as their rivals roll-out the new signings. Barcelona won the league but Madrid want to win the summer and have made the livelier start.