Championship clubs are concerned that the Premier League will not impose a points deduction on Aston Villa if they are found to have breached profit and sustainability rules. Villa, who were promoted to the top flight after beating Derby County in Monday’s Championship play-off final at Wembley, are among a number of clubs — Derby included — currently operating under a soft transfer embargo while the English Football League continue to assess their P and S submission. Officials at Villa Park insist they will be compliant with financial fair play regulations despite reports of heavy losses. But high-level discussions are currently taking place between the EFL and the Premier League — discussions being led by the Football League’s interim chair Debbie Jevans, amid concern that there could be lack of consistency in applying the appropriate sanctions. In March an independent panel concluded that Birmingham City should be hit with a nine-point deduction by the EFL after incurring losses of nearly £48.8m between 2015 and 2018 — and therefore breaching the £39m three-year limit — and clubs would certainly like to see consistency should Villa also be found to be in breach. But insiders believe poor communication between the EFL and the Premier League has led to ‘a disconnect’. “The rules are supposed to be aligned across the leagues but there is a concern that the interpretation of those rules is different,” said one source. There would be a reluctance among senior Premier League officials to hit a newly-promoted club with a points deduction, and so making it all the more harder for them to survive in the top flight. However, what concerns the clubs, and is likely to be the point being made by the EFL, is the message the Premier League will be delivering if they don’t agree with a points deduction for a club that breaks financial rules to reach football’s promised land with its television riches. “The winner of the Championship play-off final lands a £170m jackpot so if the only punishment, if you are then found guilty of breaching the regulations, is a fine, you take that gamble,” said one club official. “Because the worst that then happens, if you fail to get promoted, is you start the new Championship season with a points deduction.” The dispute that has been raging for much of the season between Championship clubs is likely to remain on the agenda at next week’s AGM in Portugal. Reports last week suggested Middlesbrough have issued a legal letter to Derby in the belief a side that finished one point ahead of them, and in the play-offs, broke the rules when owner Mel Morris essentially bought the stadium with another company he also owns for what, at £80m, was double the value of what Pride Park was listed in the club’s books as an asset. It meant Derby were able to report a pre-tax profit of £14.6m and while the EFL might yet conclude the stadium purchase has been completed within the rules, Boro owner and chairman Steve Gibson has made no secret of the fact that he has a different view.