The trial  of slain  business woman Monica Kimani is set to resume today morning at the Milimani law courts. The prosecution has lined up 33 witnesses to testify against TV Journalist Jackie Maribe and Joseph Irungu alias Jowie in the murder case. The two are the prime suspects in the murder. Assistant Director of Public Prosecutions Catherine Mwaniki earlier on said four of the 33 witnesses are protected while five are expert witnesses. When the matter appeared before Justice John Wakiaga, Mwaniki said the prosecution had secured concrete evidence including photographs and digital records to prove their case. The prosecution also objected to the release of Irungu on grounds he would interfere with the investigations. The case resumes even as the  High Court declined to grant bail to Jowie. Jowie, through his lawyers, had appealed against a denial of bail terms but Wakiaga for the second time declined to review the terms. The slain businesswoman was killed at her apartment in Kilimani after arriving from Juba, where she operated her family businesses. She was scheduled to travel to Dubai before her body was found dumped in bath tab with throat slit, hands and legs tied. Irungu and Maribe were arrested and charged as prime suspects in the murder. But in October, Maribe was released on a Sh1 million cash bail. She was granted an alternative of a Sh2 million bond or three sureties of a similar amount. Wakiaga however ruled that Jowie would remain in custody for the rest of the murder trial. Citing Jowie's history with guns, Wakiaga said the first accused would pose a risk by creating fear and intimidating witnesses. "Being a person with specialised security training, and having handle various guns, he would pose a risk by intimidating witnesses." "This court orders that the first accused person remains in custody for the period of his trial and must be accorded proper treatment," Wakiaga ordered. So far fresh details have emerged in the murder case  with a statement by Brian Kasaine indicating why  police believe that 'Jowie' his then-fiancee  Maribe – murdered Monica. Another statement by investigating officer Maxwell Otieno of the Directorate of Criminal Investigations also outlines events that could have led to the murder. Kasaine, who had been arrested and then released in connection with the murder, gives details of Jowie's activities on the night of the murder as well as the days that followed. In his statement, Otieno concludes that his team has "overwhelming evidence" against Jowie and Maribe.