A prison officer had affairs with two inmates at the same time, having sex with one while he was on day release and sending explicit images of herself in notes to another at Hollesley Bay and HMP Maidstone. Kendall Love, 39, is still in a relationship with one of the inmates in question and Googled whether or not it was okay for her to have sex with a prisoner. Love changed her name to Chelsea Scott to try and cover her tracks as she trained to be a prison officer at Hollesley Bay open prison, Suffolk, when she began an affair with Luke Davis. She began another affair with Stanislav Zampr, her current partner, at HMP Maidstone in Kent while continuing the other for six months. But she and Zampr were spotted in an enclosed kitchen area in Thanet Wing, which the inmate was not permitted to access. Steven Mould, prosecuting, told Maidstone Crown Court on Wednesday that 'trustee' Zampr was immediately 'segregated' from other inmates, and when warders searched his cell they found 'sexually explicit' letters. Police later searched Love's home in Ashford and discovered that in January last year she had begun a relationship with another inmate at HMP Hollesley Bay. Officers found photographs of the mother-of-one 'in various state of undress', which she had sent to Davis, and discovered a passport in the name of Kendall Love. Love, who now works as a call handler, was questioned and admitted having 'inappropriate relationships'. She also admitted to a senior officer that she was aware that passing love letters to prisoners was wrong. Mr Mould said: 'She said that Zampr had helped her when she was new to the wing and she saw him more as a colleague than a prisoner and all the letters she wrote to him were all fantasy.' She said that he had helped her while she was new to the wing and she had started to see him more as a colleague than a prisoner. Mr Mould said she had breached the prison motto: 'Don't Cross The Line'. The court heard that Love had googled 'Is sleeping with a prisoner criminal?' Her phone also contained internet search terms such as 'inappropriate relationships with an inmate', 'sexual relationships with an inmate' and 'misconduct in public office'. Love pleaded guilty to two charges of misconduct while in public office. Max Reeves, in mitigation, claimed Love did not have sex with either of her lovers in prison, but did meet the inmate from Suffolk on days he was allowed out. A psychiatric report said she was possibly suffering from a personality disorder which causes her to take risks. Love wept in the dock as she was told by the judge that sexual relations between prisoners and prison officers were 'corrosive' and undermined authority. Judge Martin Huseyin said she had also put herself at risk of blackmail and exploitation. Love was given a nine month jail sentence, suspended for two years. She was also ordered to do 200-hours of unpaid community work and 25 days of rehabilitation.