Businessman Francis Mburu is back in court seeking over Sh36 billion from the state over the Ruaraka land saga. Just two months ago, the Environment and Land Court ruled that the land on which Ruaraka High School and Drive Inn Primary School sit is public land and should not have been subjected to compulsory acquisition under Section 8 of the Land Acquisition Act. Justices Bernard Eboso, Elijah Obaga and Kossy Bor from the ELC court said the Sh1.5 billion paid out to Mburu as compensation over the suit property ought not to have been paid out had the National Land Commission (NLC) carried out due diligence as the law requires. The bench further went ahead to state that despite Education CS Fred Matiang’i insisting on due diligence being followed, NLC did not do so. Instead it misled the ministry into undertaking a compulsory acquisition exercise that was unnecessary and led to loss of public funds. Mburu has since appealed against the decision and it is currently pending at the appellate court. He said in the event the appeal is not successful, the Sh1.5 billion paid out by NLC as compensation be deducted from the Sh36 billion he is currently seeking. But Mburu maintains that Afrison Export Import Limited, Huelands Limited are the registered proprietors as tenants in common of the parcel of Ruaraka Land, which is held as a freehold title. He claims that he is being used as a scapegoat and cover-up for illegalities and unconstitutional actions of the NCC, NLC and the Attorney General (listed as respondents in the case) and their agents. “..Whereas the respondents have the accurate records of the suit property, they have actively been publishing untrue and misleading information that affects my integrity,” says Mburu. The disputed Ruaraka land initially measured 96 acres, Mburu having acquired the same in 1981 from Joreth Limited through an agreement between Joreth and themselves.  The suit property is currently valued at over Sh25 billion and is charged to continental credit finance limited (in liquidation) for the sum of 150 million inclusive of interest. The tycoon claims that the Nairobi city county (NCC) has since illegally taken over his property and several persons have commenced the process of construction of buildings following what he understands to be allotment of his property. “NCC saw in my properties an opportunity to receive premiums, rents and rates not withstanding that it had not compulsorily acquired the same and paid compensation to me,” read part of the court documents. He says the rich private developers who have been unlawfully allocated portions of his land by the National Land Commission, NCC and Attorney General have erected multi-billion worth of high rise commercial and residential buildings, with the state connecting and supplying them with water, electricity sewerage and other amenities. He has also accused the state of taking up the task of maintaining the roads in the said estate and providing public lighting on the said streets in a bid to further impede his land. Mburu said the private developers have been issued letters of allotment by NCC and there is a continued transfer in respect of the said allotments from persons initially granted the letters of allotment to third parties authorized by NCC. “NCC is actively disposing off and illegally offering the suit property to private developers which greatly prejudices me.  The County has been assuming not only ownership but has also demanded rates and land rents over the property which they have been in occupation from inception,” says Mburu He argues that despite acknowledging ownership of the property, the county government has been receiving rates, payments on allocations from other parties and in effect have illegally and irregularly transferred, assumed ownership of the suit property in breach of his rights to protect his property. This he says amounts to illegal effective compulsory acquisition without compensation by the respondents. The suit property is seven kilometers from the City centre being a freehold commercial property fully serviced and valued at more than Sh25 billion. “Actions of the NCC effectively acquiring my property without compensation, assuming its ownership and occupation despite my objections and reporting constitutes a violation of my rights. I have been deprived of my property for private purpose and interest without any compensation,” says Mburu. As a consequence of and damages incurred as a result of the actions by NCC , Mburu claims they have incurred loss of user and rental income valued at Sh14 billion. He says they have also lost the entire suit property which is of unique character properly fully serviced and valued at more than Sh25 billion. “Both the national and county government have illegally invaded my land and have carried out an unlawful survey on part of my property. Due process for compulsory acquisition of my property was not followed by the respondents prior to their occupations, use and disposal I have never consented to or approved the sales or disposal of my property by the respondents,” he says. He has accused the Attorney General for failing to protect him from the illegal activities in the suit property, which NCC has since assumed ownership, possession and sanctioned disposal of interests. Mburu in the new suit is seeking an order of compensation of Sh13 billion being loss of rental income, plus accrued interest. Also sought is an order compelling the respondents to compensate him a sum of Sh23 billion being the market value of the his Ruaraka  property.