Nyeri county government has banned food hawking and outside catering services in Othaya town amid fears of a disease outbreak. The action was taken after uncollected garbage had piled in the town's streets for nearly three weeks. But business owners who spoke to the Star said they were now forced to vend food secretly for fear of arrests. “We have been working in a very dirty environment for the last three weeks,” Othaya businessman Daniel Mboga said. Karima ward MCA Reuben Kabera expressed disappointment with the state of the town's cleanliness. County chief officer for health Newton Wambugu dismissed claims that the ban was because of fear of a cholera outbreak. He said they have only triggered the Public Health Act on food vending on unsanitary conditions. “Food must be sold in areas with running clean water which is not the case with streets. For outside catering, a license must be issued after meeting certain conditions,” he said. Residents living near Gikeu dumpsite in Karima ward, Othaya constituency, dug deep trenches disrupting the movement of garbage trucks in the area. A resident said they were opposed to garbage being trucked in from Nyeri town, 20 kilometres away. Nyeri town was left without a dumpsite after the county began constructing a Sh600 million transport terminus at the Asian quarters in Nyeri town where the waste was previously dumped. Governor Mutahi Kahiga launched the project in June. Before digging the trenches, residents had held a demonstration at the site to protest the dumping of garbage in the area. They said the dumpsite cannot hold both the garbage from Othaya and from Nyeri town. “The local authority started dumping trash there about 40 years ago but have never looked for ways of managing that garbage despite the fact that the area is marshy,” Kabera said He said area residents had experienced health challenges due to foul smell that emanates from the area, smoke, and mosquitoes. Kabera said he has been trying to manage the garbage all alone and called on leaders to come up with ways of addressing the challenge. Environment CEC Fredrick Kinyua said the government was looking for garbage disposal land for purchase. Kinyua said the county will embark on waste separation and recycling to effectively manage waste from the entire county. The county generates about 150 tons of waste per day. Kinyua said there are plans to purchase land and that Sh50 million has been set aside for the purpose. The county government does not want to proceed with the way garbage is being disposed but wants to have a system where the waste will be recycled, he said. (edited by O. Owino)