BY ALICE WAITHERA It's been 51 years of agony for squatters living in the expansive Muri Farm on the border of Murang'a and Machakos. Their lives have been mired in constant fear of eviction and violence as they tussled to own the 2,663 acres — land they have always called home. They can now smile after winning the battle. The original owners had a coffee plantation that they abandoned following mismanagement. They left behind their workers, who immediately made the farm their home. But problems soon began. Twenty years ago, their houses were set on fire by a group of people claiming ownership of the parcels. It has been a dreadful journey. In June, the 3,000 squatters held a demonstration over delayed land titles. They said they could not conduct any meaningful agricultural activities without the documents. Lack of title deeds made it easy for greedy people to take advantage and attempt to acquire the land, and that led to violent clashes, they lamented. And just when their hopes were almost getting dashed, their prayers were answered. This good news, however, came at a price. They had to pay Sh500,000 per acre to the Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC).  The corporation loaned the squatters money to help them buy the land. They will have to repay the cash. Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua officiated the first phase of title issuance during which 300 squatters benefitted. Mutua sought to assure them that all the 3,000 registered squatters will get their title deeds. The rest are still being processed. He said his administration waived Sh6 million for planning and demarcation of the land. The county chief alleged a scheme by some individuals to be allocated prime land in the farm but added he would never allow a few rich people to exploit the poor. Beneficiary Susan Wambua said it was a dream come true for them to finally have their own land. She said they had had to resist a series of forced evictions over the years which made their lives a nightmare. Their quest to have title deeds has been long and filled with challenges as there were so many wealthy people interested in the land, Wambua said. John Mwangi said they sought the help of the Machakos government to acquire the documents. He lauded the governor for addressing their plight and helping them to settle. For his part, AFC chairman Franklin Bett said the corporation had met with residents several times and agreed on the payments to ensure no party loses. "We've met several times to ensure we come up with an amicable way of resolving this issue in a way that no party will lose out," he said. In case the squatters' crops fail and they are unable to raise the money to service the loan, they will have to contact the AFC to have their payments rescheduled. (Edited by F'Orieny)