Malian Hamane Niang was unanimously elected new president of  International Basketball Federation (FIBA). Niang has been Fiba Africa President and also Vice President of FIBA for the period of 2014-2019. He formerly served as president of the Mali Basketball Federation and also a Mali Minister of Sport.  He will serve for four years. The elections were held in China. “Delegates from 156 National Federations in attendance at the FIBA Congress today elected a new President and new Central Board members for the 2019-2023 term of office,” a statement from Fiba said. He succeeds Horacio Muratore. Niang said: “I sincerely thank all the National Federations for the trust they have placed in me today. It is with humility that I accept this responsibility placed upon me. I promise to dedicate myself fully to FIBA during my tenure and to serve the interests of our beloved sport across all corners of the world.” He went: “We are the governing body of basketball and we must continue to play the leading role in developing our sport. Together, we can become the most popular sports community in the world.” These Central Board members, along with the newly elected President and Treasurer will join FIBA Secretary General Andreas Zagklis as well as the Presidents of FIBA’s five regions: Anibal Manave of Africa, Carol Callan of the Americas, Sheikh Saud Bin Ali Al-Thani of Asia, Turgay Demirel of Europe and Burton Shipley of Oceania for the new term. The newly-formed Central Board will meet for the first time on Saturday, September 14 in Beijing, on the occasion of the final weekend of the FIBA Basketball World Cup 2019. The following are the members of the Central Board for the new term: Celestine Adjanohoun (Benin), Jean-Michel Ramaroson (Madagascar), Michele O’Keefe (Canada), Marcelo Luis Bedoya Murto (Paraguay). Others are — Usie Richards from the Virgin Islandss Yuko Mitsuya (Japan), Erick Thohir (Indonesia),Carmen Tocala (Romania),Jean-Pierre Siutat (France), Antti Zitting (Finland), Asterios Zois (Greece), Karo Lelai (Papua New Guinea) and (David Reid) Australia.