Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has once again been urged to rein in party MCAs who have been accused of sabotaging Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu. Wiper, by virtue of being the majority party, controls the county assembly. Ngilu won on the Narc ticket. Wiper MCAs have come under sharp criticism for undermining the executive arm of the county government and derailing development. Ngilu and the MCAs have been at loggerheads for the large part of her time in office. At some point last year, Ngilu’s allies accused the Wiper leadership of sponsoring political feuds in the assembly to stall her development plans. To date, there is no love lost between the two factions. A Narc politician has now sought Kalonzo’s help in fixing the mess. On Monday, Ezekiel Muthami, who unsuccessfully ran for Mwingi North MP in 2017, said Kalonzo has the power to stop undue attacks on Ngilu and her administration. “If you moved to stop attacks on Ngilu by the Wiper MCAs and protect Ngilu against sabotage so she could deliver on her mandate as the governor, this theatre of attacks and sabotage would end forthwith,” Muthami told Kalonzo at a press conference. He spoke in Kyuso market, Mwingi North, accompanied by Ngilu’s supporters. He made the remarks after Kalonzo refused to be drawn into the wrangles pitting Ngilu against the MCAs. “I’m neither an MCA nor an MP. I’m an ordinary person like former Kitui Senator David Musila. Therefore, I should not be dragged into the infighting,” Kalonzo had said on Saturday. The Wiper leader was addressing mourners at Kalisasi primary school during the funeral service for his former teacher Joseph Munyambu. Munyambu taught him at Tseikuru Primary School in the 1960s. Kalonzo was emphatic that he had nothing to do with the wars. He was responding to a request by county Culture and Tourism executive Patrick Musau who had earlier told him to intercede. Wiper MCAs are making Ngilu’s work difficult, Musau said. On Monday, Muthami also accused a group of Kyuso residents, led by MCA Stephen Musili, of rejecting the deployment of people from other parts of Kitui to work in the area. Last week, MCA Musili and a group of residents accused Ngilu’s administration of posting people from other parts of Kitui to the Kyuso Level  4 Hospital at the expense of locals. They demanded the removal of ‘outsiders’ so their positions are taken up by Kyuso natives. The group also accused Ngilu and her administration of underperforming and marginalising Kyuso ward. They told the county chief to resign for failing the people who voted her into office. (Edited by F'Orieny)