A vocal CEC in Bungoma County has become the talk of the town . The talk has nothing to do with successes of his docket but rather his enthusiasm with 2022 politics. Those in the know say the man has of late been passionately pleading with Senate Speaker Ken Lusaka not to make a comeback and vie for the gubernatorial seat. Could the CEC be worried of losing his job? The CEC has been receiving bashing from residents of the county on social media for his stance. It is also said that Governor Wycliffe Wangamati has issued him with a stern warning against engaging in 2022 debate. A contractor who won a Sh800 million tender for the construction of an assembly chamber in one of the Nyanza counties is up in arms with the leadership. Reason? The man had parted with some Sh50 million to win the contract several months ago. However, with the Commission on Revenue Allocation in consultation with the Ministry of Public Works coming up with a revised standard rate of costs of construction of such facilities, the assembly leadership is in a fix on how to handle the matter with the contractor who wants a refund OF his Sh50 million. The contract sum for the chambers and MCA’s offices has been capped at between Sh400 - Sh500 million, being a county with less than 60 MCAs. A former senator who has been preparing to be governor in 2022  is a troubled man. Those around him have whispered to corridors that the wealthy businessman who tends to be flamboyant in his use of resources has fallen out with all the religious leaders. This has made him drop his political strategy, a strategy he had thought would make him close to the local mwananchi. It is said that the former senator fell out with bishops after he tried to divide the leadership of the churches into two sections. A youthful and a  vocal MCA of one of the Eastern county assemblies popular for moving impeachment motions and fighting women leaders has shelved his ambitions of running for an MP's seat. He had already started a face scratching war against a member of parliament he intended to replace, however, corridors has learnt that the MCA  decided to shelve his ambitions after being unable to answer questions. Recently the MCA was overheard saying that he had committed all his salary on loans he used to buy a big vehicle to transverse the constituency.