Veteran Gor Mahia striker Dennis Oliech has accused the Kenyan Premier League champions of unprofessional conduct following the termination of his contract just seven months into his two-year deal. The club announced Oliech's dismissal on Tuesday citing serious misconduct and continued poor performance on the field and the reported entry into national politics where social media was awash with a poster of Oliech declaring his candidature for the vacant Kibra Member of Parliament's seat. However, Oliech said the club management were being insincere since they knew he was still recovering from a left-hand fracture suffered in May against Western Stima. The former Nantes and Auxerre star said he trained twice with the club after their CAF preliminary match away to Aigle Noir but the team doctor Patrick Opiyo advised him to focus on rehabilitation. He also took a swipe at the club’s treasurer Sally Bolo for declining his request to accompany him to their preferred medical facility for tests which he believes would have vindicated the reports by the team doctor. “I did not skip training deliberately. The club knows I had a fracture in May and I have not healed completely even though I had begun training. After our match away to  Noir, I trained twice but the doctor advised me to stay away for the hand to heal completely," said Oliech. "Yesterday (Tuesday) I called Bolo to accompany me to the hospital for further tests but she declined. She insisted that I write an official letter to the management but since I am/was not guilty, I did not write. That’s unprofessional from a club of Gor’s calibre.” And even though his huge pay is also touted as one of the reasons decided to show him the door, Oliech declined to discuss the matter, of both his seven-figure sign-on fee and the monthly salary of around Sh300,000. “I do not want to talk about money and politics at the club. They always keep on telling me to execute my roles, my dues will be settled but nothing has come out forth.” “For almost two decades, I have been in professional football but I was surprised by Gor’s move to terminate my contract. I believe the decision was informed by the reports indicating that I had joined politics," said Oliech. Somebody somewhere thought I could be interested now that (MacDonalD) Mariga has been widely linked with politics but I am not willing, neither did I authorise the preparation of the portraits. I am not in the race to seek the ODM ticket. I am from Dagoretti and there is no way I can front myself for a seat in Kibra cConstituency.” Meanwhile, Gor Chief Executive Officer Omondi Aduda has termed Oliech’s defence as baseless. “I have heard his response but it’s neither here nor there,” said Aduda.