Management consultant Eliud Owalo has found an opportunity to hit back at his former boss opposition leader Raila Odinga—by contesting in the Kibra by-election. ANC bigwigs unveiled Owalo on Wednesday at the party headquarters to contest against Jubilee and ODM candidates in the ODM stronghold. “We have worked with ODM as shemeji [in-laws] for a good time and the time has come for them to pay us the dowry. Our dowry is Owalo,” Lugari MP Ayub Savula said. Owalo lost to the late Kibra MP Ken Okoth in the ODM primaries ahead of the 2017 election. The Kibra seat became vacant following the death of Okoth last month. “Okoth told me when he came back from abroad after the treatment that Owalo was the right person to succeed him,” Butere MP Tindi Mwale said during the ceremony to unveil Owalo. ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi challenged residents to vote wisely to ensure they access good social amenities and policies that can change their lives. “We should not focus on individuals but ideas. We also challenge our competitors to focus on what is good for the people,” Musalia said. Owalo said he would ensure the people of Kibra access social amenities, defend the locals and work with them towards growth. The consultant who has lived in Kibera also promised to expand the democratic space, enhance good governance, human rights, access to health, education, shelter and youth and women empowerment. “I will partner with key stakeholders to support the people of Kibra in accessing low-cost and decent shelter, maintenance of a clean and habitable environment that is free of garbage and diseases,” Owalo said. He promised to enhance the growth of local talent, build education, sanitation, health and develop investment programs. “Kibra contributes heavily to the growth of the nation but the gains don't trickle down. I will make sure my brothers and sisters in Kibra dictate their interests. Even land grabbing will have to stop,” he said. “I have lived here and I know the plight of the people and challenges facing them. I will address them.”