Kenya Hockey men's Premier League side Wazalendo have sharpened their attack ahead of their  Sikh Union's match as they target the second spot on the table standing at the City Park Stadium tomorrow. A letdown department in recent matches, Fidelis Kimanzi's men got their confidence back after labouring to a 2-1 victory against police last weekend after registering a  four-match winless drought. And with three games in eight days to play for, the tactician wants the team to maintain consistency as a win against Sikh will see them dislodge police who are not in action this weekend from the second position. League leader Butali who will miss in action has 21 points from nine matches. Wazalendo who are third on the log standings with 17 points from nine matches face Sikh who are placed eighth with seven points from the same number of matches played will be without the duo of  Kennedy Munialo and Mathew Mutiso. The two are out with respective injuries. Kimanzi defended his teams recent poor run saying: "Every team goes through this lapse and its good ours is gone. We focus now on getting convincing results after the win against Police. We have trained on our forward circle because getting goals is crucial and the boys are ready to show that in matches. In this part of the season, we cannot afford to drop points carelessly and I expect the boys to get the job done." Elsewhere, relegation fighters Parklands take on Ben Owaga's Greensharks today. Warm favourites Sharks could pile more misery to the side that has won only once and conceded 24 goals in nine matches. Victor Osiche will be a thorn in Parklands defence. A resurgent Sailors side lock horns with Strathmore's gladiators. Sailors Wednesday's 1-1 all draw against Police gave the team self-belief and will give the students a run for their money. Ninth placed Strathmore who are low on confidence and flirting with relegation could drop to the bottom if Parklands defeat Greensharks. In the women category, seasoned champions Telkom will hope to extend their unbeaten run when they play Sailors and Jomo Kenyatta University of Science and Technology (JKUAT) today and tomorrow respectively. Fresh from drubbing Strathmore scorpions 3-0 Telkom are expected to pick easy points against the struggling sides. Should the record winners win against the two side they will extend the lead to 26 points from 10 matches with a distant follower United States International University Africa with 14 points from seven matches, not in action. Kenyatta University(KU) take on Sliders hoping to close the gap between them. Sliders have six points from eight matches while their tomorrow opponents have two points from the same number of matches. In the men's  Super League, Nakuru host Wazalendo Masters as Mombasa Sports Club (MSC) entertain Mvita. Impala has a date with Kenya College of Accountancy University (KCAU). Women side Wolverines battle  Orange Leonas as Nakuru play Vikings.