Bayern Munich are reportedly considering a move for Real Madrid outcast Gareth Bale as they look for alternatives to Leroy Sane. Wales international Bale is no longer a part of Zinedine Zidane’s plans at the Bernabeu and the club are actively looking to sell him to raise funds for other moves in the transfer market. Bayern, meanwhile, are desperately looking to add a winger to their squad this summer following the retirement of Arjen Robben and the exit of Franck Ribery at the end of his contract. Manchester City’s Sane remains their preferred option but Spanish outlet Diario AS claim Bayern are monitoring Bale’s situation and will make an 11th-hour bid if they cannot reach a deal with Pep Guardiola’s side for the young German. Real must raise funds if they are to sign Paul Pogba from Manchester United and it is believed transfers for Bale and James Rodriguez would bring in over £100million. Bale has already seen one possible transfer collapse after Chinese side Jiangsu Suning offered him a way out, only for Real to pull the plug because they would not have received any transfer fee. The Welshman still has three years left on his Madrid contract and his incredible salary means he is willing to stay put at the Bernabeu, despite zero assurances he will play.  The former Tottenham star scored 14 goals and contributed six assists in 42 competitive games last season. Zidane was forced to defend the 30-year-old last week after he was pictured playing golf while his team-mates were losing in a pre-season friendly. “You are telling me something that has surely happened. I’m here with my players, and I’m not going to comment on that. I’ve not seen the picture. I’m here with my players, so I can’t say much about that,” the Frenchman said. “I hope he’s working well. “But I’m here with my players and we will see when we get back to Madrid. I’m not going to tell him off or that he’s not allowed to do it. He’s old enough to do what he wants.’” Zidane had no issues with the trip to the golf course. “He maybe had his reasons,” he added. “It’s his private life, it’s not something I judge. I think he trained well. We’ll see what’s going to happen when I get back to Madrid.”