Miraa consumption has been blamed for increased marital problems among families in Lamu County. This is according to women and elders in the region. Miraa is also being blamed for increased crime among users of the costly herb. The women claim that men who consume miraa are impossible to engage with whenever there are issues at home, a situation that has seen an increase in divorce rates and family breakups. Halima Kupi, a mother of six says she has been left to fend for herself and the children as her husband, a mangrove trader, spends all his money on daily bundles of miraa. “Women like me have been left on their own to fend for the families. Our men have diverted all earnings to buying miraa. A man would rather chew miraa and sleep hungry than take care of his responsibilities,” Kupi said. These men are equally reported to have failed to fulfil their conjugal obligations to their wives as they spend time away from home chewing miraa with friends at their favourite hangout joints. “My husband and his friends leave home at around 2 pm in the afternoon and return way past midnight and even then, they can barely do anything if you understand what I mean. Women are suffering and that’s why there are so many extra-marital affairs on the part of those who aren’t patient,” she added. Local women complained they are being denied conjugal rights by their husbands. Lamu Council of Elders chairperson Sharif Salim reiterated that indeed many men had failed to honour their responsibilities to their families as they waste a lot of time in hangout joints chewing away with like-minded friends. “Many families have turned dysfunctional because of this habit. Men would rather buy Miraa than buy food or medication for their children. They would rather be holed up with friends chewing than at home with their wives and children. Then you wonder why divorces are high,” Salim said. The council’s deputy Abubakar Shelali said several reports had been made by women reported being denied conjugal rights by their husbands who have turned into 'goats', chewing at every given opportunity. He warned men asking them to cut down on the habit or quit altogether saying the plant was a threat to marriages and families in the region. “It’s not just embarrassing but also dangerous for a man to become so enslaved to a habit to an extent of not functioning in any capacity,” he said. The elders have proposed for the establishment of a special rehab facility for miraa addicts. A section of residents, however, feel miraa shouldn’t be blamed for anything but that instead, the blame should be on consumers who willingly decide to start using. Peter Muriungi, a miraa seller and consumer in Lamu town says “So many of us who didn’t have jobs now sell Miraa for a living and it is fetching us a reasonable means of livelihood. Miraa is innocent of all accusations."