Some central Kenya businesspeople have identified three personalities as potential successors of Uhuru Kenyatta in the region's political leadership. The three frontrunners are Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri, Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru and former Cooperative Development minister Joseph Nyaga. The businesspeople spoke to the Star in Thika town on Monday. They said the three fit the narrative that the region's leadership should shift from Kiambu, Murang’a and Nyeri as those counties have enjoyed power for decades. Kiunjuri, Waiguru and Nyaga come from Laikipia, Kirinyaga and Embu respectively. Businessman Edwin Muchori said that while the three are yet to declare their interest to fit in Uhuru’s shoes, there are indications that they are intensely lobbying to lead the region once the President’s term ends in 2022. “We know it’s because of the respect they have for the President that they haven’t declared publicly their interest to lead Central region. But we are well aware of the political games going on silently among them,” Muchori said. According to him, Kiunjuri has an upper hand as he is popular in Laikipia (his diaspora) and Nyeri. His popularity in the two counties gives him assurance of an executive position in the next government, argued the businessman. “He [Kiunjuri] has a solid following in the two regions as well as some parts of Kirinyaga county. He has also been a close ally of Uhuru, and he is in the Cabinet. These are added advantages,” Muchori said. His colleague Gabriel Mwaniki said Waiguru is better placed. He sees in her the region's first woman political spokesperson. He cited the likely constitutional changes that will ensure a 50-50 power-sharing deal between men and women. Waiguru told a recent Team Embrace forum at JKUAT in Juja, that women “are no longer going to ask for 30 per cent (leadership positions). We have tried all avenues through the law and other conversations but it hasn’t worked. "We will push for a 50-50 representation, meaning that if the President is a male, we expect the Deputy President to be a woman, and if the Prime Minister will be a woman we will expect a male to be the deputy.” The governor said women were determined to secure equality in policymaking and the management of the country. “This is the best shot for Waiguru to rise to the position of the Central region leadership. She is the most preferred person who can take up the position of Deputy President, should the referendum endorsing for the same pass,” Mwaniki said. Further, Waiguru enjoys the support of women in the region, he said. Trader Leonard Njeru said Nyaga, an unsuccessful presidential aspirant and veteran politician, enjoys solid support from Pentecostal churches and some influential individuals. Recently, leaders and members of the Akorino Church from Gatanga constituency in Murang’a endorsed Nyaga to spearhead the referendum fronted by the Building Bridges Initiative. They asked President Kenyatta and former Prime Minister Raila Odinga to pick Nyaga to lead the referendum camp in the region. “Having support from the church and influential tycoons is a big win for Nyaga. Churches can influence a region's political structure because they reach out to many people and are convincing. Again, Nyaga is a veteran politician who knows how the region’s politics is played,” Njeru said. He also noted that Uhuru’s dalliance with Raila is a plus for Nyaga. The scion of pre- and post-independence politician Jeremiah Nyagah was Raila’s ally in the ODM Pentagon ahead of the 2007 general elections. “The ex-Cabinet minister could ride on the handshake between Uhuru and Raila and emerge the winner. Note that even Waiguru has stated that the region is ready for a Raila presidency. Nyaga can benefit from his friendship with Raila,” Njeru argued. The businessmen were, however, cognizant of other heavyweights including former Kiambu Governor William Kabogo, Trade CS Peter Munya, Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi, his Murang'a counterpart Mwangi wa Iria and Tharaka Nithi Senator Kithure Kindiki.