Seven Kieleweke politicians have told Deputy President William Ruto that early 2022 campaigns is not part of his job description. They are MPs Peter Mwathi (Limuru), Maoka Maore (Igembe North), Robert Mbui (Kathiani), Maina Kamanda (nominated) Joshua Kutuny (Cherangani) and former MPs Dennis Waweru (Dagoretti South) and Kabando wa Kabando (Mukurwe-ini). The MPs led by Kamanda stood side by side on Sunday and said that Ruto has been claiming that he is President Uhuru Kenyatta's principal assistant, sworn in alongside the President and does the work assigned by the head of state. They were speaking in Kaini PCEA church, in Ngamwa area in Mukurwe-ini, Nyeri, which is Kabando’s home church. The politicians told Ruto that at no time did the President tell him to campaign prematurely. “The President may have assigned him some duties but definitely not premature campaigns,” Waweru said. He said that during musician John De’ Mathew’s burial in Gatanga, Murang' a county on Saturday, former Kiambu Governor William Kabogo told the President that his deputy was campaigning early. But the DP said he was not campaigning but doing duties assigned to him by the President. “Uhuru has stated categorically not once, twice or thrice that no politicking until 2022. Unless you are trying to be insubordinate," Waweru said. He said though Ruto has not been politicking personally, he brings along a battery of politicians who campaign on his behalf. The politicians said they support the Building Bridges Initiative. “We are going to support the document fully and if it recommends that we review the Constitution, then that is what we are going to do,” Waweru said. Kabando criticised those claiming that Uhuru was elected because he is from a dynasty and said the  DP as the man behind the narrative. He said it was time Uhuru looks for genuine friends regardless of their political affiliation or ethnicity as his old friends have turned against him. “These politicians are undermining the President and we have seen on several occasions where buses are hired to ferry people from other areas to go and cheer the DP at the President’s functions in Central,” he said. Kamanda said in that Nyeri, only MPs Kanini Kega (Kieni), Wambugu Ngunjiri (Nyeri town) and Senator Ephram Maina are with Uhuru. “The others are only telling us about 2022. I want to warn them that in Central politics, 95 per cent of elected leaders are sent home by voters,” he said. A similar future awaits early 2022 campaigners, he said. He said the Kikuyu wants to work with other communities and that is why they were backing the BBI team. Maore said the President summoned elected leaders in August 2017 to State House and warned them against engaging in early campaigns. He asked them to give him time to fulfil his pledges saying he would lead his deputy’s campaigns in 2022. “But immediately after the meeting, the DP accompanied by an army of MPs hit the ground running to campaign for 2022,” he said. (Edited by V. Graham)