Jurgen Klopp will consider unleashing Mohamed Salah and Roberto Firmino from the start against Manchester City after their impressive return helped Liverpool regain their composure. Liverpool have struggled to get results and rhythm during pre-season but after three defeats and a draw in four matches, they looked significantly sharper in a 3-1 win over Lyon in Switzerland thanks to Salah and Firmino leading the attack. Both men returned to training on Monday following their summer break and had only taken part in four sessions at Liverpool’s training camp in the French town of Evian but their presence made a difference – and also handed their manager a dilemma ahead of the Community Shield. Firmino played the first 30 minutes and scored Liverpool’s equaliser with a drilled finish, while Salah’s pace and skill lifted them as an attacking unit. He was substituted at half-time – Liverpool used 27 players in total – but Klopp had seen enough. “We will have to see how they react,” said Klopp. “Now training is not about intensity it is about the detail. We need to really prepare the game. Manchester City is different from all other games you play. From the physical point of view, this was very important for the lads.” “And from a psychological point of view, losing football games you never get used to, so I’m really happy we could change that. I am happy but I know we should play much better to have a chance against City.” Klopp does not want ask too much, too soon of players who were involved in international tournaments deep into July but such was the quality they added that he refused to rule out the possibility they can figure at Wembley after such limited preparation. ‘We have to see,’ said Klopp, whose side fell behind following an uncharacteristic error from goalkeeper Alison Becker. ‘I don’t say 100 per cent not (that they won’t start); but there’s a chance they could play.’ The win was secured thanks to a spectacular own goal from Joachim Anderson and a stunning 25-yard strike from Harry Wilson, the Wales international who spent last season on loan at Derby. He is a target for Bournemouth and Klopp knows there is a big decision to make on his future. “We are in constant conversation, that’s clear,” said Klopp. “We have to do the right thing for us and for the boy. That’s how it is. It’s nothing to talk in public about it, so we will see what happens in the next eight or nine days until the window closes. He is obviously a really good player. I’ve been really happy with him all pre-season, he came back from Derby completely different.” “That’s a good example of how a loan can really work out. For Derby it was really good, for Harry it was, and for us as well. I’m happy that he could show that again. He didn’t play in his best position, but on the left-wing did really well. We tried to set him up a little bit, so it’s more comfortable for him. And when he scored the goal, it was just Harry. It was brilliant.”