Muthaiga Golf Club’s pro golfer, Greg Snow, played a decent round of 73 on the final day of the Nyali Golf and Country Club leg of the Safari Tour Golf Series, to card an overall score of 3-over par 287 to win the opening event of the 2019/2020 calendar. Snow, who got off to a shaky start at the tournament by carding a round of 74, held his nerve and found groove through the rounds to claim the top spot. He started off the final round by carding a total of 38 on the first nine courtesy of dropped shots at the par-4, second; the par-3, sixth and the par-4, ninth with the only birdie coming at the par-5, fifth.  On the back nine, he carded a total of 35 having dropped shots at the par-3, 10th; the par-4, 14th  and the par-4, 16th and having made a birdie at the par-5, 11th and an eagle-three at the 17th. Snow said he was delighted with the recovery work that he put into the second and third rounds. “I am happy with the win here as it has been a very tough outing, not just for me, but for everyone who was involved over the last four days. I am particularly pleased with my performance over the last two rounds as they ensured that I increased my chances of winning the event,” he said. “Today’s round was challenging, but I am glad that I only went over by two shots — which wasn’t a terrible outcome in the end. Focus now shifts to the next Safari Tour event in Uganda, where I am hoping to challenge for top honours as well.” Snow now has a total of four Safari Tour victories and has taken top prize money on five occasions. Nyali’s pro golfer, Njuguna Ngugi, who impressed in the third round to post the lowest score of the tournament, struggled on the final day to card a round of 79; a 13-shot turnaround from Tuesday’s score of 66.  This took his overall for the tournament to 7-over par 291, which was enough to see him secure second spot ­— underpinning the difficulty of the course and the conditions that met the players. On the first nine, he carded a total of 41 courtesy of a bogey at the first, a double-bogey at the second and bogeys at the sixth, seventh and ninth holes. On the back nine, he carded a total of 38 with bogeys at the 10th, 12th and the 17th holes.  His second-place finish is, however, his highest finish yet at a Safari Tour event. Last year’s Nyali winner, David Wakhu, ended his campaign at the tournament with a round of 75, taking his total for the tournament to 8-over par 292, enough to secure third place. Wakhu, who also led his Pro-Am team to victory on Saturday, had a decent outing at the event, having not carded higher than 75 in any round and posting the joint lowest score of 69 on round two. For their efforts, the top trio took home Sh105,000, Sh70,000 and Sh56,000 respectively but failed to secure bonus prize money as none finished the tournament with an under-par score. In addition to his third-place finish prize money, Wakhu also walked away with Sh30,000 being winnings for leading his team to Pro-Am victory at the tournament. Nyali’s elite amateur, Daniel Nduva, impressed to finish joint-fourth with pro Erick Obura, to win the Silver Salver, having been the only amateur to make the cut. The 2019/20 Safari Tour Golf Series season continues at the Uganda Open next month.