Sexual harassment and other forms of abuse have become rampant in society. The church is no exception. Churches are expected to be holy sanctuaries providing spiritual nourishment but not take advantage of the susceptibility of their flock. When we talk about flock vulnerability, we are looking at the degree of manipulation by men of the cloth against their followers. This goes to the core of problems that often compel people to seek religious interventions. Religious leaders are usually the first stop for a society beset by all forms of injustice including domestic violence but, unfortunately, it has become a haven for religious injustice. Whenever people feel weighed down, they turn to the church. However, more often than not, we have seen pastors taking advantage of their faithful. Some of the faithful have been robbed by religious leaders while some have had their families destroyed. We have plenty of examples in Kenya, where we have seen pastors involved in murders of wealthy men and then inheriting their wives. We have seen pastors even using black magic to disorient their followers and take over their wealth. Some women have left their marital homes and are living with their pastors. Some pastors brainwash worshipers while scheming how to disinherit them. It is unacceptable for pastors to manipulate their flock while committing all forms of injustices in the name of anointing them. Women must know that what pastors usually do to exorcise spirits — to undress them, touch their private parts, kiss and even rape them in the name of blessing their wombs — is criminal and must be reported to the police. Rape is one of the serious crimes that causes long-lasting psychological impact. Some victims have committed suicide while others have divorced their partners. Pastors must operate within the law. It is incumbent upon the government to take action against rogue pastors in Kenya, especially in Nairobi, who exploit their followers. Those who have gone through hell at the hands of pastors must be encouraged to report to the police for legal action and psychological support. The writer is a psychologist and runs a sexual harassment support centre in Nairobi.