Dozens of employees at government agencies at the Coast are on police watchlist in the war on narcotics. Agencies, where police are investigating staff, include Kenya Ports Authority, Moi International Airport, and the National Police Service among others. On Sunday, Coast regional coordinator John Elungata said the list is long and it is growing as detectives intensify the war on drugs. “We have a long list. We are telling them to surrender because we will finally catch up with them,” Elungata said. Police on Friday arrested female police constable, Hamdi Yusuf Maalim Ibrahim, for allegedly cohabiting with a notorious narcotics cartel leader, Said Mohamed Abdalla alais ‘Shuaiz’, in Likoni. Other suspects  arrested on Friday are Alfan Ali, Halima Mohamed Abdalla,  Zainab Abdi Farah and Omar Shariff Hussein. Police recovered three kilogrammes of cocaine worth Sh12 million and two kilos of heroin worth Sh6 million. International agencies have in the past flagged the Mombasa port as a major transit route for narcotics in East Africa. Anti-narcotics detective told the Star in confidence that boats are being used to transport heroin and cocaine. Complex cartels involving staff from port agencies are said to collude with traffickers to turn a blind eye to containers with narcotics. Last week, the DCI boss is said to have camped at the port for two days in probe of corruption deals at the facility used by East African countries. Two weeks ago, an OCS was nabbed in Lamu county for releasing a boat carrying bhang. The bribery claims in police service were confirmed after Elungata said ‘Shuaiz’ had been working with rogue officers in Likoni to evade arrest. “He has been selling the drugs to our youths with impunity while coercing our officers,” Elungata said. The Star has in the past reported on airport staff and police admitting to be taking bribes to let go drug traffickers. “We are determined than ever,” Elungata said. Yesterday, President Uhuru Kenyatta warned rogue port officials of graft saying, "we are watching you."