Kisumu Governor Anyang Nyong’o has fired two city management board members Ken Akoko and former mayor Sam Okelo over lack of degrees. Okelo confirmed to the Star the sacking saying the termination letters were issued on Thursday. “It is true we’ve been fired. That is it,” he said. Nyong’o through his press unit director Aloice Ager said the Urban Areas and Cities Act recently underwent a review which counties are complying with. “The review introduced new measures and requirements with regard to the composition of the membership,” he said. Some of the new inclusions require that all members of the Cities Boards and Town Committees must be holders of at least an undergraduate degree and must have practiced for not less than seven years. Apart from the sacked two, the other board members are Charles Ochome, Sheila Okal, Lawrence Gumbe, Rose Olende, Sagar Shah, Elijah Adul, Farida Salim, Peris Ochola and John Ombija. Shah represents the informal sector while Salim Farida Ahmed and Okal represented private Sector and neighbourhood respectively. Okelo was representing associations of town and Peris Ochola represents professionals. Akoko was under the individual member categories alongside Gumbe, Ombija, Ochome, Adul, and Olende. Nyong’o also sacked finance executive Nerry Achar following his impeachment by the county assembly. The board is chaired by Adul with Doris Ombara as the city manager. Ager said the position previously reserved for representatives of urban dwellers be removed and the executive of Urban development at the county be incorporated in the board in its place. “Following the concluded review, the Council of Governors sought the AGs advice in regard to the implementation of the same. The AG's advice to COG was that all counties with city boards and town committees must commence immediate compliance with the new law,” he said. This directive, Ager said, has therefore necessitated reorganisation of Kisumu City Board in a bid to implement the law. “This development has necessitated the removal of two board members Akoko and Okelo. County Government wishes to thank the duo for their commitment to duty and enthusiasm to the development of the City during the period that they served the city as board Members,” he said. Ager dismissed the sacking of embattled finance executive Achar following his impeachment by the assembly. He also denied the alleged sacking of other two board members Ochome and Okal. There were claims that the duo, degree holders have not practised for at least seven years as required by new regulations. Ochome, however, said he has heard of the sacking. He said he has served in government for 19 years and over a decade in the private sector. "I am waiting for further direction," he said on phone. In July 4, 2019, the assembly members unanimously passed the names of 11 nominees by Nyong’o into the City Board. The MCAs adopted a report of the appointments committee which had carried out the vetting of the nominees in accordance with section 13 (1) of the Urban Areas and Cities Act of 2013. Assembly Chief Whip Hon Gard Olima who tabled the vetting report told the Assembly that all the 11 nominees satisfied the laid down requirements. Olima said the nominees upon vetting were suitable for appointment into the board since they met all the legal thresholds. The MCAs during the debate noted that the formation of the board was long overdue. They noted that the city was lagging behind since the board is expected to ratify several development plans. Kisumu Senator Fred Outa asked Nyong’o to dismiss Achar after he was impeached. He noted that Achar does not hold any public office following the impeachment. Outa accused Achar of incompetence and mismanagement of the finance docket, saying he has been an impediment to county’s growth.