Traders displaced by fire, hawkers, fishmongers and M-Pesa agents will get priority in the six-storey market under construction in Gikomba. Other traders will be catered for in the next phase of the project, the government said. During a visit to inspect progress of the construction last Friday, Infrastructure CS James Macharia said the market will host about 2,000 traders. "This project is the first of its kind and a  big milestone for small scale traders who are the backbone of our society," he said. "About 80 per cent of all employment is from small and medium enterprises." The CS told traders a perimeter wall and borehole will be constructed. Macharia said the water source will help traders operate in a healthy environment at a time when the country is faced with risks such as cholera. "The perimeter wall will be built at an additional cost of Sh50 million whereas the borehole will be constructed at a cost of Sh5 million," he said. Samson Wanjohi, a representative of the traders, said the borehole will help fish traders operate in a healthy environment and the water will be used to put out fires. So far, three out of the six floors have been put up. The construction will cost Sh493 million and should be ready in December. The project started last December and is 35 per cent complete. In addition to the borehole and perimeter wall, the CS said roads will be built to enable access to the market for easy disaster response in case of fires and other emergencies. "I will instruct the Kenya Urban Roads Authority to map out the area for construction of access roads. We will work with the area MP and Nairobi county," he said. Macharia added the project will be replicated in other markets such as Githurai. Gikomba market is prone to destructive fires. Almost after every incident, investigations are launched and committees formed to probe but no report has been made public. On April 10, more than 2,000 structures were razed down as a section of Gikomba caught fire. Last year, the market experienced at least three major fire cases, with President Uhuru Kenyatta calling for investigations.