Wajir North MP Ahmed Abdisalaan says God rescued him from the hands of marauding bandits "whose sole purpose" was to kill him. The incident took place on Thursday last week in Masalale location. And at a press conference in Wajir town on Tuesday, the legislator, for the first time, told of his ordeal — an encounter he said he hasn't been able to forget, and probably never will. Abdisalaan was in the company of census officials and a group of constituents who had been displaced in Masalale a week earlier following Wajir South-Eldas border disputes. They were carrying out a pre-mapping exercise. On arriving at Masalale, Abdisalam requested residents to escort him to the disputed spot to assess the security situation. Suddenly, gunshots rent the air, prompting the MP and his entourage to flee back to Malkagufu.  They left their two vehicles behind. His Toyota Prado was gutted, while Malkagufu MCA Mohamud Abdullah's car was wrecked. "Thank God I'm alive to tell the story today. We could have been talking of a different story because the armed bandits, who were so close to us and were shooting everywhere, were actually targeting me. It is by God's grace that I was not injured and neither was anyone from the team I had," Abdisalam said. He questioned why the state hasn't been able to end border disputes between the two subcounties. Hundreds of lives have been lost, property destroyed and social amenities, including schools, closed he said. "You ask yourself what became of the promise by the Interior CS who visited the area in 2018 at the height of the clashes and promised a lasting solution to the problem once and for all. Didn't then-regional coordinator Mohamed Saleh promise that all the IDPs would be resettled?" he asked. Woman Representative Fatuma Gedi regretted that the border dispute has gone on for so taking a heavy toll of suffering, especially on women and children. She took a swipe at politicians for applying double standards. "These militias are financed by somebody and in most cases, it is the political class. Let's see them brought to book because the government has the machinery to investigate and bring the individuals to book," Gedi said. "For how long will we continue witnessing bloodshed, destruction of property and displacement of innocent people? Does it mean the issue has become too big for the government to handle? This is really embarrassing. It should not happen in this day and age." Northeastern regional coordinator Mohamed Birik separately said he has directed the county security committee and the Directorate of Criminal Investigations to arrest the criminals who attacked the MP. He spoke on Tuesday after charing a regional and county security intelligence committee. "We tend to see in the next few days suspects arrested and arraigned," he said. Birik said the clashes were being orchestrated by militias supported by politicians. "Behind militias is a politician, a network and people who fund and support them. I have, therefore, asked the county security committee to dismantle in the fastest time possible militias rooming and operating between the two subcounties," he said. The border conflict between Eldas and Wajir North has gone on for a long time. It stops up once in a while when the government moves to restore security only for another to recur after some time. (Edited by F'Orieny)