The construction of the Sh17 billion Western Bypass is on course and will be completed as planned, the contractor has said. The 16.79 km road starts at Gitaru and will link the Southern Bypass with the Northern Bypass at Ruaka. The contractor is China Road and Bridge Corporation. The China Exim Bank-funded project is the fourth and final ring road in Nairobi. The other bypasses are Southern Bypass, Northern Bypass, and Eastern Bypass. The Western Bypass will complete the city's ring road. The construction began on March 15 and is expected to last 39 months. The government is compensating those displaced through the Kenya National Highways Authority. CRBC chief corporate communications manager Jane Ngugi said on Monday, “The project is nine per cent complete.” Ngugi identified the compensation of land and property owners as among the major challenges. She said they work closely with other agencies in the removal of both electricity lines and water pipes. “We have done our best to ensure that communities are not disrupted as they go about their various activities.” The Star established that road reserves are heavily encroached on. The fence for Kanyariri Primary School was within the reserve but CRBC has since realigned it and a perimeter wall for the institution as part of its corporate social responsibility. Ngugi said the communities bordering the bypass have forwarded several wishes to the contractor. “We have received too many requests and we are consolidating them…the community has high expectations,” she said. The locals are the beneficiaries of job opportunities. Others supply some items and services. Ngugi said they are awaiting the approval of the recently nominated National Land Commission members following the exit of the previous team on February 19. Residents urged those involved to fast-track the project. Bodaboda rider Nickson Wachira said the road will open up the area and provide them with more customers. Sarah Wangari hoped that there will be footbridges for use by among others school-going children. Most of the sections near riparian areas have been stabilised. Box culverts have been completed and the construction of underpasses is ongoing. The bypass will have 25km service roads and seven interchanges at Gitaru, Lower Kabete, Wangige, Kihara, Ndenderu, Rumingi, and Ruaka. In April, lead engineer George Amingh announced the road will be a four-way expressway. Amingh said noise barriers will be fitted in all human settlements for an enhanced environmentally compatible highway. There will be paved deviations to reduce dust and for smooth traffic flow. The deviation routes will be retained. Eleven traffic bridges and pedestrian underpasses will also be provided. Amingh said a bus park will be put up at Wangige while bus bays will be erected in existing commercial centres and settlement areas. Separate footpaths and cycle tracks will be provided to ensure that there is no conflict between motorised traffic and road users. The bypasses are intended to reduce vehicular congestion in the Central Business District. 