KCB coach Curtis Olago has set his sights on a fourth consecutive Kenya Cup title. Speaking from Cape Town, South Africa where he is attending a two-week training camp with Western Province, Olago was bullish about the sides' chances of winning a fourth Kenya Cup crown and emulating the great Nondies teams of the 70 and 80s. "We have had eights weeks of pre-season training with the boys and we still have another six to go before we head to the Impala floodlight tournament at the end of September. The boys are putting all their efforts in the gym to get well-conditioned for the start of the season,” noted Olago. Olago is in the Mother city alongside backs coach Mark Mshila as part of the exchange programme they have with the team. “This partnership has really helped me and the team grow. It helps us stay ahead of the competition and innovate new methods, ideas and tactics to help us remain a cut above the rest," added Olago. Olago and Mshila have in the last one week interacted and shared ideas with Western Province and former Springbok prop Hanyani Shimange, Under 21 and former Kenya Simbas coach Jerome Paarwater and Stormers head coach Robbie Fleck. The bankers have strengthened their squad by signing Homeboyz prop Patrick Ouko,  Kenya Sevens star Johnstone Olindi, Mean Machine flanker Shadon Munoko and Blak Blad utility back Levi Amunga. Olago said competition for places in the upcoming season will be healthy. "The new players have to train and work hard like the rest and compete. It also gives the technical bench options in what will be a long season. Elsewhere, South African side Blue Bulls have pulled out of the Christie Sevens slated for this weekend at the RFUEA ground. The reason for their no-show is unknown but the South African team have been replaced by Blak Blad in Pool 'C' where they will face Nakuru, Kabras Sugar and  MMUST. The varsity outfit was set to play in Division Two of the Christie Sevens and their elevation has seen Kenya Prisons promoted to the second tier.