Senator Kipchumba Murkomen of Elgeyo Marakwet has intensified the row over the stalled Arror and Kimwarer dam projects. He recorded himself during a visit to the empty project sites and circulated the video in which he defends the projects. It wasnot known when the tapes were made. Murkomen is one of the lawyers defending suspects charged with corruption in connection with the projects. Facing trial are suspended Finance CS Henry Rotich, his PS Kamau Thuge and officials of the Kerio Valley Development Authority. Last month the ywere arrested and charged. Murkomen, an ally of Deputy President William Ruto, says the Arror Dam should be completed to uplift the lives of residents. Murkomen recorded himself at sites along the Arror river and circulated the video clps through social media. He defended projects and their viability. The senator says the dam project had been fought with so many falsehoods and propaganda, including claims the Arror river does not have enough water to feed the proposed dam. “Look at the flow of the river, a mighty river of Arror. And it’s not even raining. Suppose it rains and the river overflows. If the project is implemented it will make a big difference in Kenyan's lives," Murkomen said. He said the Arror project that would be a game-changer in the region, generating electricity for the national grid, helping to irrigate of 100,000 hectares and supply water to more than 10,000 households. And it would create many jobs. “I have done everything and will continue to defend this project ... This is not about viability of the project or misappropriation of funds ... It's about how they want to make the project not succeed," Murkomen said. “In the fullness of time we will be vindicated," he said. The two dams that were to cost more than Sh65 billion have stalled after KVDA awarded construction tenders to Italian firm CMC di Ravenna, partly paid in advance. The DCI was investigating possible loss of more than Sh20 billion before the government and KVDA officials were charged. Both sites for the Arror and Kimwarer dams have been abandoned. No work is going on and more than 1,000 families that were to be compensated and moved away have now moved back. Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos asked the families not to leave the land until they are fully compensated. He said he supports the prosecution of that allegedly involved in the tender and payment. (Edited by V. Graham)