Good morning, Corrupt Kenya Ports Authority officials are not resting easy after President Uhuru Kenya yesterday gave them a stern warning. "Public resources are for Kenyans not for leaders to amass wealth. Leaders are only custodians. That is all," Uhuru said. He spoke at the Port of Mombasa when he flagged off the maiden shipment of crude oil from Kenya.  The Jubilee Party will field a candidate in the upcoming Kibra by-election, the party's secretary general Raphael Tuju has confirmed. Through a statement on Monday Tuju said the party, having consulted within the party leadership with respect to Kibra constituency have decided to feature a candidate. "We would like to tell party members that Jubilee party will be fielding a candidate in the forthcoming Kibra Constituency by-election on November 7, 2019," Tuju said. Exactly nine years ago, with a single stroke of the pen President Mwaki Kibaki changed Kenya forever when he promulgated the 2010 Constitution. The historic Uhuru Park grounds had virtually been filled to the brim. Boisterous crowds were exuberant, united and teaming with hope for the grand moment expected to herald the rebirth of a new Kenya. However, Kenya marks the ninth anniversary of the Constitution today amid lingering questions as to whether it has been implemented fully. Senators have put the government on the spot for spending millions of taxpayer money on renting houses for its diplomats after running down Kenyan embassies. The lawmakers claimed most Kenyan embassies are in a sorry state and can no longer house diplomats after the government stopped maintaining them. They said some of the facilities are dilapidated — their walls and floors are full of cracks, while others are leaking — and are at risk of collapsing. The World Bank rates Siaya county government as among the top 10 best project implementers in the country. World Bank representative in charge of infrastructure development Abdul Muonge commended Governor Cornell Rasanga for implementing agriculture, health and water projects. The international lender has awarded the county a Sh100 million grant. None of the impounded 500 containers of edible oil has been released, the Kenya Bureau of Statistics(Kebs) has insisted, bringing a new twist to the Sh10 billion controversial consignment being held by government. This contradicts Trade CS Peter Munya's earlier revelation that 58 had been discharged to the importers, even as questions hang around the clearance to import unfortified edible oil against the country's standards.