The Kenya Navy will for the first time conduct the National Salute during this year's Mashujaa Day celebrations on October 20. Interior Principal Secretary Karanja Kibicho said on Friday that the historic event will be held at the Sh460 million Mama Ngina Waterfront Park in Mombasa. The military showcases its expertise in combating enemies on land and in the air during National Salute celebrations. This has- traditionally - been conducted bt either the Army or the Airforce. “During this year’s Mashujaa Day celebrations, our Kenya Navy will showcase their skills in combating enemies at the seas,” Kibicho said. The PS, who is the chairperson of the National Celebrations Committee tasked with organising the Mashujaa Day fete, said the Mama Ngina Waterfront Park will provide a good view for the colourful show from the Navy. “Traditionally, over the world, salutes are received from either a match past of flypast by the military planes. This time, and for the first time in Africa, we are going to have the National Salute from our Kenya Navy,” he said. He spoke after a tour of the 26-acre waterfront park. The renovation of the recreation park was launched in January by President Uhuru Kenyatta. It is 95 per cent complete and should be ready before October 20. The contractor is Suhufi Agencies Limited.  “We are very satisfied. The cultural centre will be ready by September 20 and the levelling of the ground is done. We will be back on September 13 for another inspection,” Kibicho said. The park will have a capacity of 35,000 people. “The actual ground has a capacity to hold over 20,000 people. The presidential dais will comfortably accommodate 4,000 VIPs,” the PS said. The Mama Ngina Waterfront Park will be an integrated urban destination for culture, festivals, shopping, dining and relaxation. Its notable features will be a state-of-the-art amphitheatre, the Kilindini Cultural Centre, the Pigeon Towers, the traders’ kiosk, the leisure walkways, the ablution blocks and two main gates leading the park. 