Quins coach Charles Cadovills and team manager Godfrey Okoth have been suspended from all rugby activities pending hearing and determination of a misconduct charge by the Kenya Rugby Union. The judicial hearing, which was chaired by George Mbaye and Aggrey Chabeda failed to proceed to conclusion due to the fact that, as captured in the ruling; "The parties summoned seem to be seeking adjournment/postponement of the hearing. The panel, however, notes that the KRRA officials who were expected to prosecute their case today have not turned up." The hearing comes in the wake of Cadovillis releasing a statement on July 27 and the Kenya Harlequins twitter page where he questioned officiating during the Kabeberi Sevens in Meru Cadovillis said: "Rugby officiating in both the Kenya Cup and the Sevens series this year has been on a whole different level of horrific," he said. "Referees have determined the outcomes of games with poor calls on pivotal plays. When officiating changes a team’s W-L record, that should be a big concern to all key stakeholders of the game." Cadovillis' statement did not go down well with the Kenya Rugby Referees Association, who accused the coach of intimidating match officials and went on to petition the union for a hearing on July 30. Kenya Rugby Referees Secretary-General  Alfred Okwemba termed the remarks by Cadovillis as reckless and injurious to the reputation of whistlers in the country. During the judicial hearing, Kenya Harlequin honorary secretary Stanley Omino, who was present besides KRU's technical director Thomas Odundo and competition and fixtures secretary Michael Mwanja, told the judicial panel that; "The statement appearing on the purported club Facebook page did not represent the official club position." He informed the panel that they had been taken aback as their official club page is 'Kenya Harlequins Rugby' of which he is an administrator. Cadovillis, Okoth and KRRA did not turn up for the hearing and a new date will be set for the ruling. The Panel noted: "We note Mr Cardovillis’s explanation for no – attendance. However, we take great exception of his failure to formally communicate the same in good time to allow the other participants time to reconsider attendance. With regard to Mr Okoth, the excuse is totally unacceptable to this panel." "His failure to attend after he was summoned tends to reinforce the perception that has persisted in these judicial proceedings that the charges and the Panel have not been taken with the seriousness they deserve."