Kenya yesterday powered into semi-finals of the African Games after humiliating Senegal 3-0 in the second and final group stage match here at Salle Bouaazaoui gymnasium in Rabat.Kenya has now won two matches having beaten Cameroon 3-1 in the opening match with Kenya's would be third opponents Algeria having pulled out of the event at the last minute. They face second placed team in Pool A which features hosts Morocco, Nigeria, Seychelles and Botswana.Yesterday, Kenyans started the match on a high noted quickly taking a 4-0 lead hardly two minutes and sending the opposition into panic.As expected Senegal quickly called for a time out although it dint change much.Kenyans returned and subjected the west Africans to the same treatment taking an 8-2 lead at the first technical time out. Janet Wanja, Triza Atuka, Mercy Moim, Noel Murambi and Sharon Chepchumba started for Kenya.The Kenyans were still in charge of the proceeding at the second TTO, Ieading 16-5. However at this point laxity seemed to have set in with the Senegalese capitalising on the situation to try and catch.Coach Paul Bitok then brought in Jane Wacu for Wanja and the ship seemed to stabilize again as they went on to win the match 25-11.The second set started slowly with Senegal  threatening to match Kenya point for point as they trailed 3-4, 4-5 and 5-6. But this was as far as they could go as Malkia engaged high gear to lead 8-2 at the first  TTO. Wanja, who was back in the mix proved effective with clever fakes that left Senegalese line up confused as they led 12-9, then 15-10.At 20-13, Bitok rang changes, giving his second line a moment in the sun. Indeed, they didn't disappoint as they raced to 23-15 before sealing the set 25-15 for a 2-0 lead. The third set was punctuated with poor service as their opponents slowed them down.This saw the Senegalese gain confidence with every passing minute pushing the scores to 16-9 at the second TTO.Bitok said the match was an opportunity to test more players ahead of the semifinals.He said its now to tighten play and ensure Kenya retain the title. Bitok said he is not worried of the semis as his team is more than are ready. " I know what to do when that time comes on Wednesday," he said.