South Africa's retail chain Shoprite opened its first store in Mombasa on Thursday, promising to set up more outlets in major towns. The retailer took over the space formerly occupied by struggling Nakumatt at the City Mall, in Nyali's affluent neighbourhood. It's other branches since it entered into the Kenyan market in December 2018 are located at the Westgate and the Garden City malls, Nairobi an indicator that it targets high-end clients. The fourth branch set to open in September will be at Karen's Waterfront. It currently has more than 2,700 stores in 15 African countries. Nakumatt was evicted from the mall over an Sh27.8 million rent arrears. The second branch of the retailer was opened in March at the Garden City Mall and the fourth branch will be opened at Nairobi’s Karen Waterfront at the end of September. The official opening of the City Mall store was graced by Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho. Shoprite Kenya General Manager, Andrew Mweemba said the expansion is an indicator of the retailer's commitment in investing in the country. “Now we are looking to establish a firm presence in Kenya, which according to Nielsen’s study is home to the second-largest retail centre in Africa, after South Africa,” said Mweemba. Nielsen is a global measurement and data analytics company that provides information on consumers and markets worldwide. Mweemba said the Mombasa store has provided 115 direct employment to the locals. This is in addition to the 240 jobs created at the Shoprite Westgate Mall and Shoprite Garden City. About 65 per cent of those employed at the new City Mall store are women. “In addition to job creation, the Group contributes to the Kenyan economy by sourcing more than 80 per cent of its products from 345 local suppliers,” he said. Joho said the region has a conducive environment for businesses growth. “I’m here to celebrate a milestone as we welcome Shoprite supermarket in Mombasa. We hope that more international brands will continue to come here,” said Joho. Shoprite joins the list of international retail chains that are making entry into Kenya and local ones spreading their wings beyond Nairobi to fill the void left by Nakumatt and Uchumi supermarkets.