At first, it was a fling. But it blossomed into an intense love affair. A woman, they say, loves with her whole heart. Marrianne Kitany would seem to be no exception. She found a soul mate. And she would lavish her newfound love Meru Senator Mithika Linturi with his hearts' desire. Money was no object. That is the picture Kitany, former chief of staff to Deputy President William Ruto, painted in court when she testified during their divorce case last week. She vividly narrated how she took her man on holidays and built him a home. On Wednesday this week, Kitany will take the stand again at Milimani Law Courts where she is expected to testify how brutal the senator treated her and her children. Kitany will also testify on how she was kicked out of her palatial home in Runda. In December last year, she secured court orders allowing her to take full ownership of the Runda house. She wanted an exclusive occupation of the shared residence, a move that Linturi objected, claiming that the woman was not his wife. Last week, a composed Kitany did not mince her words while testifying in the Nairobi court. The former chief of staff said that when they first started courting in 2014, she would pay huge chunks of money for various events. She claimed that at one point in 2014, she gave Linturi Sh200,000 to pay rent, which led him to move in with her in her Kileleshwa home. They also built the Runda home for Sh110 million. She paid Sh30 million while Atticon put in the other Sh80 million. She said her brother and sister had invested in the company. Later, after they solemnised their marriage in April 2016, Kitany built a Sh8million house for Linturi’s parents in Meru. Kitany told the court that at the time she was doing all those things, totally believing that she was building her home with her husband. On the day of the traditional wedding, they both sacrificed after Kitany chewed miraa for the first time, and Linturi had to drink mursik, though he hated milk. “Even though he did not like the milk, he had to drink mursik; it was also the first time I took miraa," Kitany said. Describing to the court how the ceremony was carried out in April, Kitany testified that Linturi paid Sh100,000 shillings as dowry, and wondered how a marriage certificate indicating Linturi was married to one Mercy Kaimenyi only came up during the divorce proceedings. Linturi gave Kitany’s mother a Silver Nissan X-Trail, registration number KCG 850N as a token of appreciation. However, this car has never been transferred to the mother, with the court being told that the car is under Atticon Company belonging to the senator. The courtroom burst into laughter when Kitany said that Linturi touched her heart on their wedding day as he was giving his speech. The court heard that she cooked delicious food for Linturi and took very good care of him. She said that from the time they got married, people saw a change for the better in his grooming.