Lamu residents have criticised the county government for installing artificial grass to beautify the county headquarters in Mokowe town. Those privy to the project say it cost tens of millions although it is not clear exactly how much. Synthetic grass has been used to beautify lawns on the front of the county headquarters. Residents say the move is wasteful and unnecessary in a county plagued by poverty, drugs and joblessness. They say the money should have gone into more meaningful projects that would have benefited them directly. Entrepreneur Abdalla Swaleh said Lamu town, for instance, has problems with poor drainage and that is what the money should have been used for. Swaleh said it was embarrassing and selfish for the county government to embark on beautification projects worth millions when there weren’t enough drugs in hospitals. “How shameful that someone is doing beautification while we are here and we need drugs? The town has a filthy drainage system plus many other pressing needs. How beneficial is a lawn to the common Lamu resident?” Swaleh said. However, a few other residents like hotelier Omar Shee welcomed the project, saying Lamu as a tourism destination needs to look beautiful. “I don’t see an issue. After all, Lamu isn’t the first to embrace such a project. At the moment the headquarters looks amazing. Lamu being a tourist destination, such beautification serves as a bonus. We need more of the artificial lawns in all other county offices across Lamu,” he said. Some residents appealed to the county government to install similar artificial lawns along major streets in Lamu town, which is the major tourism destination. They also want the same beautification done in major towns like Mpeketoni, Faza and Witu. “Tourists love beauty and things that are appealing to the eye. Let them install the grass in Lamu town and other major towns. We need to get out of the comfort zone and stop getting used to the norm. Let’s do something different as Lamu," Faiza Fuaz said.