A businessman on Monday accused his former lover for colluding with the police to frustrate him over a land dispute. This was revealed in a counter-complaint by Franklyn Muia Mbai, a suspect in a case against his former girlfriend Eunice Mbithe. Mbai and Mbithe allegedly separated after disagreeing over Sh1 million land in Machakos. In November last year, the two had deposited Sh400,000 which they had raised together, leaving a balance of Sh600,000. After paying the deposit, Mbithe kept the bank deposit slip while the businessman took photos of it for future reference. The two agreed to draft their sale agreement through an advocate who was Mbithe's close ally. It was agreed that communication would only be between Mbithe and the advocate. The former lovers received a draft of the deal and made changes. The changes in the sale agreement would be communicated by Mbithe. As they headed to pick the final document, the two had a disagreement. As a result, only Mbithe headed to the advocates' office to pick it. When she returned, Mbai had no chance to look at it but trusted that the changes had been incorporated. What followed later was a shocker to Mbai. The seller called Mbai and told him his girlfriend had taken the agreement to him and it indicated that she was the sole buyer of the land. Mbithe insisted that the seller sign the document immediately but the seller declined and requested for time to read through. A call that followed sparked a disagreement between the lovebirds. There was a  confrontation on why the document was altered without Mbai’s knowledge. However, Mbithe said there was no problem, adding that the next land they would buy would belong to Mbai. Mbithe's failure to correct the agreement as agreed resulted in their separation.  The next step she took shocked Mbai further. He realised that Mbithe had gone to the seller and informed him that they had agreed to abandon the idea of buying the land. Mbithe demanded a full refund of the money paid to the seller. The seller called Mbai for confirmation. The three met at the seller's home twice but failed to reach an agreement. Mbai went and reported to the police. He also reported the matter to the Judicial Service Commission. He accused Mbithe of defrauding him. From that point, Mbai claimed she has been receiving threats that she would have him killed. In April, the land seller was arrested by the police from DCI Athi River. The took the sale agreement. The seller was placed in custody but later released on bail. On a different date, the seller and Mbai were arrested and told that they would be charged with obtaining money by false pretences to defraud Mbithe. Police officers tried to convince Mbai to let the matter go and let his former lover have a full refund of the deposited money otherwise they would be charged again with the same offence. When Mbai was to be charged on another date, he was approached by Mbithe and two men who accompanied her to a Pangani hotel. Mbithe allegedly drew a knife from her bag and pointed it at Mbai and demanded that he hands over his phone that had photos of the bank deposit slip. She allegedly told Mbai that would be his last day alive. She reportedly also demanded all the documents regarding the matter he had reported to the Judicial Service Commission, the land, his laptop, and Ipad. But a group of revellers walked out of a nearby bar and at that moment he escaped and ran to a nearby police station and reported the matter. This was revealed after Mbithe, an assistant at a Kibera court, asked the court to warn Mbai against threatening her and vandalising her car.  Mbai was charged in a Milimani court over it. The man was charged with giving false information to two police officers, intending to cause them to use their powers to arrest Mbithe. He was accused of lying that he had been robbed of a cellphone, a laptop, an iPad and documents by Mbithe. He denied the charges. It was further stated that he had informed the police that Mbithe was armed with a gun while robbing him. Appearing before chief magistrate Francis Andayi with his co-accused Beatrice Mbula, Mbai was released on a Sh100,000 bail while Mbula was released on a Sh 50,000 bail. The case will be heard on October 3.