The sixth national census entered its third day without major hitches save for a few isolated incidences reported in some parts of the country. Police officers in Tharaka Nithi county arrested a bishop and a senior church official over claims that the two had asked the congregation to refuse to be counted as they held a fundraiser and overnight prayers. Bishop David Kamundi of the Holy Spirit of Zion Church was nabbed in Mitheru Ward together with elder Paul Mungai. Tharaka Nithi county commissioner Beverly Opwora ordered the arrest of the two even after they explained that members of the the congregation had not refused to be counted. In Kisii, police picked up a villager in Gesusu, Masaba South Sub-County for allegedly blocking census officers from accessing her premises to carry out the exercise. County Commissioner Geoffrey Kigochi told the Star the suspect had attempted to lock out the officers lamenting that her son had missed a job as an enumerator." She is already in custody but the counting is on," said Kigochi. In Migori, enumerators were accompanied by elders and local administrators to deter foreigners from being counted especially along the common border with Tanzania and Uganda. Migori county commissioner Joseph Rotich said village elders, nyumba kumi heads and assistant chiefs have been accompanying enumerators to ensure only Kenyan nationals are counted as nationals. “We have informed assistant chiefs that they will held accountable if foreigners are counted as Kenyans in the ongoing census,” Rotich said. Rotich said the move will ensure that only Kenyans are counted as Kenyans and foreigners as foreigners. He said Luo, Suba and Kuria community members cut across the border of three East Africa countries and most share relatives across the border. “The administrators have been keen in enforcing the law and individuals who will give wrong information to the census officials will be punished by law,” Rotich assured. Area Women Representative Pamela Odhiambo called on the parents and guardians to ensure children or adults living with disability are enumerated. Odhiambo regretted that some parents and guardians conceal information on disabilities in their children and thereby denying them their rights in the long run. She said residents should give accurate information to the census officials to allow government plan well while allocating resources. In Kiambu, the Bureau of Statistics coordinator in charge of the county praised security agents for supporting census teams. Willy Konde told the press that the enumerators were doing a good job owing to the protection they received. However, a woman was arrested in Juja, Kiambu County for allegedly obstructing census officials and lying to them. Nelly Kinja was arrested by police officers in Joyland estate. Police claimed that the woman blocked the officials from enumerating her. She reportedly used a vulgar language on them. Juja Sub-County Police Commander Dorothy Migarusha confirmed the arrest. It is alleged that Kinja purported to be the premises’ land lady and told the enumerators who were accompanied by a village elder that she would not be enumerated. She claimed that the government had overburdened her through payments of land rates. Kinja allegedly told the officials that the entire exercise serves no purpose. The suspect was held at Juja Police Station awaiting to be arraigned in court.