The 2018-2019 new young player second runner-up Dan Sakari has hinted of reverting to pursue his Masters should he fail to hit the football peak in the next three years. The rookie who joined Kariobangi Sharks from Kakamega Homeboyz in the ongoing player transfer is keen to take a path less travelled by local players if his stint with the former Shield Cup holders does not bear fruit in the next three years. The lanky right-back impressed at Homeboyz last season where his displays landed him at the podium in the end of season awards held recently and despite the milestone, the player has academics as his fall back plan. Sakari said even though his football talent was rife at childhood, his parents stressed on academic excellence and hence was forced to juggle between the two. The Masinde Muliro University student who began at the Milo Central Academy before proceeding to Maseno School is set to graduate with a degree in Science and Mathematics in December. “I knew I was skilled from the age of six while I was in primary school at Milo Central but my parents were strict academicians so I still had to go to school and perform well. I believe in my talent and above it all, I believe in God. I trust I am able to achieve my set target within the three years I have set for myself. In the case that it does not work out, I will go ahead to pursue a Masters Degree.” The versatile player recorded two goals and eight assists and has his sights trained to lift the Kenya Premier League title with Sharks which comes with a ticket to the lucrative Caf Champions League. The Manchester United die-hard also did not shy from disclosing his dream of turning professional and featuring in Europe based teams. "I expect to help Sharks lift the Premier League title and next year and play in the Champions League. Besides winning the league I am also targeting the Shield and Sportpesa cups,” he said. Sakari is expected to sweat to dislodge Sharks captain Erick Juma at the right-back even though he says he can play at the offensive flanks.