Newcastle midfielder Jonjo Shelvey says he is not a ‘lazy’ player and has hit back at those who use running statistics as a measure of performance. The former England star was dropped by Steve Bruce ahead of Sunday’s 1-0 win at Spurs and, while he was ready to bang on the manager’s door the following morning, he concedes that the result and improved display are certain to see him remain benched for Saturday’s visit of Watford. But Shelvey has delivered a passionate defence of himself in the wake of criticism of his languid playing style. “You hear things that you’re lazy, maybe because of my body language, I’m quite a laid-back character,” he said. “I just get called lazy. That I’m a sulker and that I’m not part of this team. I am part of this team. People can say what they want. At the end of the day, I’m the one that goes out there and trains every day as hard as I can. I’m playing for another contract at this football club and I need to keep performing.” “You can run 15K if you want. At the end of the day, I’m a footballer. Did you see Gazza running 15K? I’m not comparing myself to (him) but I understand that football is changing and evolving, and I am evolving with it, but I get labelled lazy.” Shelvey played 90 minutes but missed a penalty during the Carabao Cup shootout defeat to Leicester on Wednesday. And he added: “I got dropped at Spurs. You’re disappointed but the day after you’re doing a session that just totally makes you forget. I was going to knock on the gaffer’s door the next day because I was top scorer at the time. But look, they went and won — that’s football — and the next day you come into training and show the gaffer you should’ve been playing.” “I don’t expect to play on Saturday. If I do go into management, which I hope to one day, I wouldn’t change a winning team.” It was Shelvey who paid the price as Bruce switched formation from 3-5-2 to the 3-4-2-1 employed by Rafa Benitez last season. “Defensively, we looked sound,” said the 27-year-old. “We need to work on what to do offensively with the ball, but that will come. We’ve had that instilled in us with Rafa, that formation, and the gaffer has picked up on it and it seems to be working. I just think they (critics) need to get off the gaffer’s back. He’s come in here and he’s doing a good job. It’s enjoyable to work with him.”