Corrupt Kenya Ports Authority officials are not resting easy after President Uhuru Kenya yesterday gave them a stern warning. "Public resources are for Kenyans not for leaders to amass wealth. Leaders are only custodians. That is all," Uhuru said. He spoke at the Port of Mombasa when he flagged off the maiden shipment of crude oil from Kenya. Uhuru said he will not relent on the war against graft. He called out senior KPA officials for their complicity in corrupt deals at the port. The head of state Kenya is rich but a few individuals want to amass all the wealth for themselves. Uhuru said he has received intelligence that some officers are planning dirty deals at the facility that could potentially compromise the security and health of citizens. “The big problem we have as a people sometimes is we see things and we already want to steal, forgetting that this port has been here for almost 100 years plus,” Uhuru said “Even here at the port, my friends, we are monitoring and we are watching.” Uhuru said there is a scheme to incite a go slow at the port so that things grind to a halt. It is during such go slows that dirty deals are made with illegal goods sneaked into and out of the country, he said. “We know the amount of money you wanted to use there and what we have already spent. We even know the amount you intend to use,” Uhuru said. “We know the plans you are making. A slowdown here, a slowdown there. So that the cargo gets in…Anyway, we understand,” said Uhuru in cryptic messages. He said there are people who have decided to take the bull by the horns who are ready to deal decisively with any element out to sabotage the government or any of its facility. “So, please, don’t say it is me. I have not sent anyone. It is you who will be caught doing your own things,” Uhuru said. He said this time round people will go down without an iota of mercy. “Hawa wasee hawachezi. Na hawacheki. [These people do not joke. And they are serious]. We will just read in the newspapers so and so has gone,” Uhuru said. He said everyone must be careful and rethink their actions. The port has for a long time been used by drug traffickers and wheeler dealers to smuggle illicit goods and drugs into the country. Two weeks ago, Interior CS Fred Matiang’i ordered a "fresh, ruthless and painful operation" to rid the Coast region of drugs. On Sunday evening, Coast regional coordinator John Elungata said they have a long list of senior police and government officers who have been shielding drug traffickers. “Their days continue to shorten as we close in on them,” Elunagata said. Uhuru said there will be no more phone calls made seeking assistance once one find themselves in hot soup. “Those phones seeking help were switched off. So, it is you to defend yourself,”  Uhuru said.