The nomination of three board members to the troubled Kerio Valley Development Authority in Eldoret has been revoked. Eric Bett, James Kiprop and Eliud Muriuki were recalled by East African Community and Regional Development Cabinet Secretary Adan Mohamed Adan has, however, appointed former MP Phillip Rotino to join the board representing West Pokot area. The CS had early this year appointed 10 extra board members, bringing the number of independent directors at KVDA to 13. Three had been earlier gazetted. The KVDA Act allows a maximum of 10 board members. On February 8 the CS appointed Pauline Lenguris, Francisca Ereng, Andrew Karumbo, Adan Omar, Leonard Sang, George Irungu, James Kiprop, Grace Were, Eric Bett and Susan Chesiyna to serve for a three year period. Last year, former Keiyo South MP Jackson Kiptanui was appointed as the chairman of the board alongside directors Dinah Chelanga and David Komen. The law says board members should not exceed 10 including the chairman, the CEO and ministry representatives. The KVDA Act also stipulates that five of the board members should be residents of the region appointed with regional balance in consideration. In another development, the appointment of the West Pokot representative has led to the withdrawal of a case challenging the constitution of the KVDA board. A West Pokot resident Daniel Lomukereng through lawyer Aseso Omollo in June filed the case at the High Court in Eldoret seeking to have the board disbanded. Omollo argued that the board did not have a representative from the West Pokot. Justice Hellen Omondi was to hear the case yesterday but Omollo informed her that CS Adan had reconstituted the board reducing the number of board members and also appointing Rotino to represent West Pokot. “We have thus agreed before the judge to terminate the case because the issues which we were seeking to be addressed by the court have been dealt with by the CS through the fresh gazette notice,” lawyer Omollo said. Kiptanui will remain the KVDA board chairman. KVDA operates in eight North Rift counties. Those appointed are mostly politicians from the region. Operations at KVDA have been disrupted since the Directorate of Criminal Investigations began probing the Arror and Kimwarer dam scandals. KVDA awarded a Sh65 billion tender to Italian firm CMC Di Ravenna for the construction of the dams. At least Sh21 Billion was paid out in advance without any work on the dams, prompting the DCI to probe possible loss of the money. Former Finance CS Henry Rotich and PS Kamau Thuge and more than 10 senior managers at KVDA have since been charged over the dams scandals. Former CEO David Kimosop and his deputy Francis Kipkech were among those charged. Adan last month appointed Sammy Laporos to act as CEO and help to normalise its operations. Adan also seconded five senior ministry officials to KVDA to assist Laporos to streamline the authority operations. The dam projects have since stalled even though the Italian firm still maintains its liaison office in Eldoret. (edited by O. Owino)