Manchester United’s £50million defender Aaron Wan-Bissaka has said moving onto a bigger stage from Crystal Palace hasn’t daunted him at all. The fearless 21-year-old excelled on his Premier League debut against Chelsea last weekend and aims to take that form into Monday night’s game against Wolves. Palace manager Roy Hodgson was impressed with how the Londoner coped with being thrown in at the deep end to face Tottenham, United and Chelsea in his first three senior matches in 2018, saying later on: “I’m glad he has finally made a mistake because I was starting to think he was a robot.” Wan-Bissaka insists that natural attitude has helped him fit in at Old Trafford though he also credits fellow youngster Axel Tuanzebe for helping him integrate into the dressing-room. “I wasn’t nervous for my debut — that’s not me,” said the assured right-back signed as the successor to departed club captain Antonio Valencia. “All eyes were definitely on all the new signings to see how we got on but I tend to block all that stuff out and focus on my game. I was happy with my performance, I couldn’t have been happier with how it went. The whole squad has been looking after me but I’m particularly close with Axel. He is one that has taken me under his wing since I joined. He’s a really good guy.” Wan-Bissaka may be able to give his new team-mates tips on how to get a result at Molineux. He was part of a Palace team that won 2-0 there in January while United were beaten 2-1 in both the league and FA Cup. “I’ve heard great things about the United away support, it is up to us to give them something to celebrate at Wolves,” he added. “It’ll be a tough game obviously. We have to take the positives from the Chelsea game and look to improve where there were negatives.” Wan-Bissaka will have to deliver in order to be considered by Gareth Southgate for England’s squad for next month’s Euro 2020 qualifiers against Bulgaria and Kosovo. Right-back is one of the most competitive areas in the England team with Kyle Walker, Trent Alexander-Arnold and Atletico Madrid’s Kieran Trippier among the competition. Ole Gunnar Solskjaer could stick to the same side that got off to a flyer against Chelsea with Alexis Sanchez not ready to start games following his injury sustained in the Copa America. The Chilean is back in training and United’s manager insists he has a part to play this season.