SOME Kakamega county politicians may have been playing to the gallery at the weekend with their claim that they would save boda boda and matatu operators from the high-handedness of security officers. The politicians claimed they would protest to Chief Justice David Maraga over the heavy fines imposed on the operators. Most of the operators are arrested and charged over traffic offences but think that politicians can come to their aid. Even as MPs claim to have the capacity to speak to the CJ, they seem to have forgotten that the fines are contained in traffic laws, which they passed in Parliament. Call it doublespeak on the part of our lawmakers in a bid to appease voters. A subcounty commissioner from Western Kenya may soon find himself in trouble after he allegedly ordered the police to release revellers arrested while drinking beyond 6pm on Saturday when the national census was underway. The administrator is said to have ordered the officers to release the revellers and the pub owner unconditionally at around 7pm to ostensibly to go and be counted. Interestingly, the commissioner was away in a different subcounty overseeing the start of the census but was driven back immediately after he was alerted of the arrest. It is claimed he co-owns the popular club along a busy highway. Interior CS Fred Matiang'i will most likely be interested in that happening. A senior county assembly official in Nyanza is living in fear after news that he is putting up a multimillion-shilling house in Karen, Nairobi, started doing the rounds in the August House. A little bird whispered to Corridors that the man, who is not in good books with the party leader of the majority team in the assembly due to his alleged highhandedness, has stopped the construction for fear that the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission might develop an interest in the matter. However, the man, whose transport company executes most of the assembly contracts, is not taking chances. He is marking time ‘to stop the story from spreading like bush fire'. A managing director of an insurance firm is in panic mode. The lady has been engaging in fishy deals for years. For the past month, a director, who is said to be the real investor in the firm, has moved in to take over the management of the company. The firm's portfolio is mainly in the motor industry. The MD, who lives a flashy lifestyle, is said to have been running two parallel payrolls. There was a fake one, which shows that the staff have received salary increment, and a genuine one, which, a mole in the firm told Corridors, has been static for the last 12 years. The staff hope that their prayers will soon be answered as they plan to share the details with the business magnate. If you have any tips send them to Tips@radioafricagroup.co.ke 