The Prisons Department and inmates have welcomed the court order that inmates who have served two-thirds of their terms be released. The move will ease the serious problem of congestion, they said. Senior officers said that inmates serving long, life and death sentences accounted for more than 40 per cent of prisons' population. Justice George Odunga ruled on Wednesday that prisoners serving long-term sentences will be released after serving two-thirds of the time. A senior official from the Prisons Department said the country’s penal institutions were greatly overcrowded due to the high number of inmates serving life sentences and those on death row. He told the Star that the directive was long overdue and said it would reduce the staff burden and free more space in prisons. “Currently there are over 53,000 inmates in the country's prisons and nearly half of them are serving death, life or long-term sentences,” the officer said. He said Naivasha GK Prison has more than 2,500 inmates, 1,500 of them serving life sentences or being housed on death row. "The challenge will be determining what constitutes two-thirds of a death sentence or a life sentence," he said. Contacted on phone, Prisons director of operations Duncan Ogore confirmed that they had received the court's release orders. He said the department would issue a comprehensive after the commissioner general had gone through the orders. Earlier in the year, Naivasha inmates had petitioned President Uhuru Kenyatta to scrap life and death (never carried out)  as many inmates who had served more than 20 years had reformed. They told the President that they were stigmatised and depressed them, many had lost the meaning of life. Inmate Willis Opondo, who is serving a life sentence, said these sentences should be abolished as they had undermined and broken up many families. He further proposed that inmates who had served over 20 years should have their sentence reviewed, saying they had learned from their mistakes and would again be involved in crime. The judge made the ruling following a petition by five prisoners — Sammy Musembi Mbugua, Nicholas Mukila Ndetei, Sammy Kitonga Mukusya, John Muoki Mbatha and Paul Mumo Muia. They had been sentenced to 15 to 40 years for robbery with violence. They had argued that provisions of Sections 46 (1) of the Prisons Act were discriminatory since they allowed prisoners convicted of other offences to walk free. (Edited by V. Graham)