Could the all-out leadership battle at the giant Kenya National Union of Teachers mark the beginning of its downfall? The ongoing infighting at East Africa's most active trade union is well on course to tear it apart. Knut has over the years grown so powerful that when it called its members to action, the issue became a matter of national interest. The man under siege is secretary general Wilson Sossion, and he will certainly have a hard time leaving behind a legacy which matches that of his predecessor, the late David Okuta Osiany. Osiany’s charm endeared not just teachers, but also former President Mwai Kibaki, who awarded him the Order of the Burning Spear on December 12, 2012. Sossion, on the other hand, appears to be deep in a battle for his life and has even gone to court to block a planned meeting of the organisation’s top brass to oust him. Sossion has been under pressure from some NEC members to quit after the Teachers Service Commission and senior teachers fell out with the union over the execution of the Sh54 billion 2017-2021 Collective Bargaining Agreement. Reports in local dailies have indicated that more than 90,000 teachers, 18,000 of them being school principals and deputies have since quit Knut following the dispute. But Sossion denies that teachers are leaving the union in huge numbers, saying there are outside forces fueling the infighting in Knut. “Knut remains the union of choice for the teachers of Kenya and so far the figures we are being treated to out there are pure lies,” Sossion said Sossion said this was not the first time the union being attacked and it would not be the last. But a day after a move to oust Sossion flopped, it emerged that another meeting was convened in Rongo in Migori county to find ways of persuading Sossion to step down and save the union. The chairman of branch officials from Nyanza region Samuel Omwaga told the Star he convened the meeting to avert an imminent downfall of the union. Omwaga said three senators, 21 branch chairmen, parents and teachers attended the meeting. “I requested the senators to intervene through education committees of the Senate and the National Assembly. Teachers are demoralised and the Ministry of Education is silent on the matter,” he said. Omwaga said that he had earlier led a delegation to Sossion’s home to appeal to him to “allow sanity to prevail.” “We have 110 branches across the country. These branches have not received any money in the last two months yet they have permanent staff and other bills to pay,” he lamented. Omwaga regretted that branch activities had stalled and said that they have even advised their respective executive secretaries to close them down. “We have bills to pay in our branches. In mine, for example, I am yet to pay rent amounting to Sh70,000 and I have a bus loan which I am not servicing. I am supposed to pay the bank Sh150,000 every month,” he said. He said the union is paralysed because of the war between TSC and the secretary-general. “This seems to be a personal war and we cannot sit and watch as we go down the drain. We are requesting Sossion to take leave and rest since this is also too much for him,” he added. The Central Organisation of Trade Unions Kenya secretary general Francis Atwoli has also waded into the matter and urged the officials to give dialogue a chance. Knut has also sought the intervention of ODM leader Raila Odinga to help address the matter before it gets out of hand. Knut was formed on December 4, 1957, with Stephen Kioni as the first secretary-general. The union held its first strike in 1963, soon before Kenyan independence. Other major strikes have been held in 1966, 1969, 1997, 1998, 2002 and 2009. Ambrose Adongo was elected Knut second secretary-general in December 1970 and was at the helm up to 2001. Adongo's 30-year term is the longest by a single secretary-general. He led the 1997 teachers’ strike, which remains the most memorable to date, both for its intensity and the lasting impact it had. Francis Ng’ang’a (2001-2008) had been Adongo’s deputy and was elected secretary-general of Knut in June 2001 following the death of his boss. A vocal person, he kept the visibility of the union high. Ng’ang’a resigned in 2008, and Lawrence Majali assumed office before Osiany took over and held the position for three years.