The National Cohesion and Integration Commission has said incitement and competition for resources are the main causes of banditry in Kerio Valley. The NCIC lead research officer Job Kimwetich said a study by the commission had found that some political leaders were inciting communities to participate in banditry. "We have to tame politics of hate if we have to achieve long-lasting peace in the Kerio Valley region," Kimwetich said. He said the NCIC research also showed that conflicts between communities in the region intensified in the period before the general elections. The official said fights over water points and grazing fields also contributed to the conflicts. Kimwetich was speaking in Iten town where the NCIC team met with Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos. The governor said peace initiatives in the region should target the young people who had turned banditry into a sport. He claimed some youths were betting on how many animals they would steal during cattle rustling raids. “We have lost about 120 lives due to banditry attacks along the Kerio Valley in the last two years, majority of them being young people,” Tolgos said. Hassan Ismail from Interpeace International Organisation for Peace Building said they will engage local and international partners to ensure that the region is stable and productive. "We are in talks with the five counties from the region and going forward, we will be meeting with all the governors to strike an agreement on peacebuilding," he said. Present during the meeting was deputy governor  Wisley Rotich who asked NCIC and Interpeace to facilitate joint social functions between members of all warring communities in the region. The NCIC has now opened a new office in Marigat, Baringo county which it will use to coordinate peace and cohesion efforts in the region. Last month politicians from West Pokot and Elgeyo Marakwet signed a peace agreement to end banditry in Kerio Valley. The signing of the agreement was witnessed by Deputy President William Ruto at Chesogon market. No incidents of banditry have been reported since the deal was signed. Governor Tolgos said local leaders are committed to transforming the region so that it enjoys peace and development like other parts of the country. (edited by O. Owino)