National women's volleyball team coach Paul Bitok has warned players against complacency ahead of their African Games final match against Cameroon today. Bitok said he had watched the semi-final match between Cameroon and hosts Morocco with a lot of interest and discovered a number of changes as compared to their preliminary match against Kenya. “We have to be careful because they have not been sleeping on their laurels since we beat them in the preliminary match. They have actually made interesting changes including shifting their Number Two to the left,” he noted. Bitok said the Cameroonians have also brought in a new setter who is serving as the main receiver. "I guess they are spoiling for a real fight but we won't give them that opportunity,” he noted. He said the Kenyan serves in the preliminary match had troubled the Cameroonians, prompting the current changes. Kenya beat Nigeria 3-0 to book a date with Cameroon who tossed out hosts Morocco with a similar set margin in the other semi-final. Bitok said he may be forced to start Sharon Chepchumba in place of Violet Makuto because the latter had failed to rise to the occasion in their match against Nigeria. However, he said that will very much depend on their training prior to the match. Otherwise, he said he will maintain his starting line up of Triza Atuka, Mercy Moim, Jane Wacu, Noel Murambi, Edith wisa and Agrippina Kundu. The former Rwanda national coach said he suspects the Cameroonians are deliberating losing preliminary matches to play mind games with them. “It can not be a coincidence that they have now lost twice in the preliminaries and went on to win the final. This is the third time they have lost but we won’t give them that satisfaction this time,” he added. Bitok said he intends to change gears according to the flow of the match. “If they take it fast we will be there and if they take it slow I guess we have what it takes to cope. At the end of the day, I just want to defend our title. Nothing more,” he added. “ I am not changing much considering the players are responding well to my instructions. After all, why change a winning outfit? he asked "Once again, I am very proud of the team this far we have come and we hope to end it on a high. As we head to the finals with Cameroon, I urge the team not to be complacent but at the same time have self-belief,” he said. He said teamwork will be key if they are to return home with the gold medal.