In many ways, the rise of advanced technology and social media platforms such as Facebook, Instagram and Snapchat have contributed to the increased rates at which digital photos are taken. Nowadays, a location hasn’t been fully explored if there isn’t a photo moment captured in the experience. Photos allow us to capture a moment, place or experience and to share with friends, or enjoy the beauty the world has to offer from a screen. In fact, a few years back, researchers found that viewing aesthetically pleasing photos can alleviate stress, anxiety, boost productivity and improve concentration. Below is a list of some picturesque places that have had their fair share of photos taken of them, and can be enjoyed by visitors or viewed over the Internet. Dubai, United Arab Emirates Dubai is known for its ultramodern architecture, cultural richness, luxury lifestyle and a lot of world-firsts records. It is one of the top tourist destinations in the world. The city welcomed 8.36 million international overnight visitors in the first six months (January-June) of 2019, posting a positive three per cent in tourism volume growth compared to the same period last year, according to the latest data released by Dubai’s Department of Tourism and Commerce Marketing (Dubai Tourism). The city is home to unique photogenic sites, including the Palm Jumeirah island, Dubai Marina, the Burj Al Arab and the Dubai Miracle Garden. The Burj Khalifa, Dubai’s most photographed place, has broken world records and stands as the tallest building in the planet. Visitors and locals have in the last few years been creating an autobiography of the city using #MyDubai. Paris, France Paris is known as the city of light (La Ville Lumière) for its recognition as a centre for intellectual pursuits. It has also been crowned the city of love and is popular for its affluence in history, architecture, cuisine and art. Some of the most photographed landmarks in Paris include the Notre Dame cathedral, the Arc de Triomphe, the Louvre museum and the Eiffel Tower. These landmarks, however, do not hold the title as Paris’ most photographed site. The credit goes to the Moulin Rouge, the exemplary Paris cabaret known for its cancan dances. London, United Kingdom London, one of the oldest cities in the world, is known for its rich history. Its blend of new and old creates an exciting adventure for tourists. Though there are a number of notable mentions when coming up with a list of London’s most photographed sites, like the Tower Bridge, St Paul’s Cathedral, Palace of Westminster, Buckingham Palace, the leading place goes to the Big Ben, the bell within London’s popular clock tower (Elizabeth Tower). New York, Unites States of America New York, commonly referred to as NYC, is one of the top metropolitan cities and the most photographed city in the world. NYC has been described as the city that never sleeps and is, of course, the centre of activity. The most photographed place in New York is not the Empire State Building, Times Square, Statue of Liberty, Central Park or the Brooklyn Bridge, albeit they are among the most popular with both professional and amateur photographers. Surprisingly, the recognition goes to the Guggenheim Museum, well known for its aesthetic appeal and its impressive art collection. Singapore Singapore is small island city-country distinctive for its green consciousness. Gardens by the Bay is the most photographed location in Singapore. The futuristic nature park stands out for its admirable features. Its Flower Dome set a Guinness World Record as the largest glass greenhouse in the world. Other spots worth checking out are: Hindede Nature park, ArtScience Museum, Helix bay and Marina Bay.