Schools could soon be allowed to conduct tuition if a proposal before Parliament is approved. The proposal seeks to amend the Basic Education Act, the law that governs operations in primary and secondary schools. If passed, schools will be required to enter into a written agreement with parents before conducting the tuition, a move that could see the return of embattled holiday tuition. However, the proposal stipulates that tuition will only be intended to help children with learning difficulties by providing extra coaching to enable them catch up in the curriculum. But the proposal further incorporates a different twist, suggesting that a child could decide to engage in tuition to better their co-curricular skills. Sponsored by Murang'a Woman Representative Sabina Chege, the bill is currently under the Education committee and will be tabled next week. Already, it largely enjoys support from the majority of members of the Education committee of the National Assembly. The Basic Education Act 2013 outlaws holiday tuition of any kind. It stipulates that a person who goes against this law risks a fine not exceeding Sh100,000 or imprisonment for a period not exceeding one year or both. However, despite the government ban on holiday tuition schools never heeded the order until 2016. It was then Education CS Fred Matiang'i who enforced the practice that was rampant. Yesterday, Kenya Private School Association CEO Peter Ndolo welcomed the proposal noting it will assist slow learners. However, psychiatrist and former head of Mathari Hospital Njagi Kumantha explained the need to maintain a sensible balance between work, rest and recreation and this is only guaranteed through the holidays. "Students have legitimate interests outside education, interests which are connected with their emotional and physical being and personality. If we take away holidays it will deny the learners a chance to rest which is vital for their development," Njagi told the Star. The Kenya Union of Post Primary Education Teachers (KUPPET)  Secretary General Akelo Misori said the move will be welcome. "It is a timely proposal to help develop the students' abilities in the new curriculum given the proposal extends tuition to co-curricular activities," Misori said. Under the proposal, the Education CS will be required to work with county education boards to ensure bright and needy students complete school. County education boards run public schools. Among other things, the bill seeks to empower the Teachers Service Commission and give them authority to employ teachers for nursery schools. This will be a major policy shift as pre-primary teachers are currently employed by county governments.