Amidst all the uncertainties over the financial future of the Kenyan Premier League, the top flight league gets underway this afternoon with two matches on the cards. Kariobangi Sharks, who, after enjoying a stellar sophomore season in the top flight league, endured a disappointing campaign last season, finishing eighth, will be keen to revert to type when they take on  Western Stima in their opening match at the Kenyatta Stadium, Machakos. “We had a very slow start to last season and we also had some of our players injured early on but once we settled I believe we finished strongly. I think we are ready to kick off yet again,” said Patila Omotto, the Sharks vice-captain. 2018 KPL player of the year, Eric Kapaito missed a huge chunk of last season with his absence no doubt felt by William Muluya’s charges. Now fit again, he is expected to lead the search for goals against Stima with the assistance of Sydney Lokale and Duke Abuya. Sharks have not delved deep into the transfer market with Tanzanian Peter Amani, youngster Daniel Sakari and winger Patrick Otieno their major signings. However, the biggest coup for Muluya is managing to keep his young squad together with no notable departure. Stima, on the other hand, is on transition with stalwarts Samuel Olare, Wesley Kemboi among those exiting the stage alongside Vincent Odongo and David Ojwang. Former Sharks duo of Henry Juma and Fidel Origa are among the new faces Stima coach  Salim Babu will rely on this afternoon. In the other match, last year's third-place finishers Sofapaka will be looking to get their first three-point on board against a Posta Rangers side that only just survived relegation by winning their playoff clash against Nairobi Stima. Since then, however, Posta has instituted changes in their ranks with Sammy Omollo returning to the club to replace John Kamau. Cain Okeyo, Michael Luvutsi, Jackson Dwang and Bidco United defender Dickens Mwema are among the new players that Omollo will hope to use to help his club erase the memories of last years forgettable campaign. Sofapaka coach Divaldo Alves revealed he is ready to confront Rangers whichever tactics they will employ. The match has been taken to Narok Stadium, which is going to be the new home ground for Sofapaka.