Good morning, When Catherine Joy was just 22 weeks pregnant, nearly five months, she experienced bleeding. She called her doctor who advised her to go to Kenyatta National Hospital immediately. She was given an injection to help her baby's lungs function. Joy was put on bed rest for two weeks after which labour pains came knocking. Joy  is a mother to two other sons, Kayle, 10, and Carlos ,7, who she delivered through caesarian section. Here are the other stories making headlines in the Star this morning. They say that the other side of love is hate. Going by Marrianne Kitany's court testimony on Wednesday, that saying is frighteningly true. The estranged wife of  Meru Senator Mithika Linturion Wednesday painted a picture a husband both romantic and passionate, cruel and sadistic. Wearing a royal blue dress, Kitany testified that Linturi hired thugs to break into her Runda home in the night. She said he threatened her, took away her property ownership documents and personal possessions. He beat her up when she enquired about documents, entertained other women in Meru and sent a woman to befriend and poison her her food, Kitany told the court. Management consultant Eliud Owalo has found an opportunity to hit back at his former boss opposition leader Raila Odinga—by contesting in the Kibra by-election. ANC bigwigs unveiled Owalo on Wednesday at the party headquarters to contest against Jubilee and ODM candidates in the ODM stronghold. “We have worked with ODM as shemeji [in-laws] for a good time and the time has come for them to pay us the dowry. Our dowry is Owalo,” Lugari MP Ayub Savula said. MPs on Wednesday alluded to a hidden hand in the stalemate that has denied county governments access to billions of shillings. This was after a meeting to negotiate the amount to be disbursed to counties failed over a quorum hitch. The MPs blamed outside political forces, arguing that it was not coincidental that only two senators out of the nine in the committee appointed for the mediation on the Division of Revenue Bill, 2019, were present. Mombasa Road is the most dangerous route in Nairobi and drivers have been blamed for causing accidents and deaths. A report by the National Transport and Safety Authority says 27 people died on the road from January 1 to August 19. Across the city, 76 pedestrians died over the period. Motorcyclists came in second at 48 deaths, followed by vehicle passengers at 34, drivers at 15, pillion passengers at 11 and pedal cyclists at three. When the clock strikes 8pm and night gathers, Nairobi comes alive. A whole flurry of activities goes on in the gleeful watch of the moon and the stars. Whether you want to dance, listen to live music, eat delicious food or hang out at a wine bar and drink a tot of tequila, there's always plenty to do at all hours of the night. The city clubs close at the wee hours of the morning. The census has brought with it a variety of experiences.