Three key suspects in connection with the abduction of Italian aid worker Silvia Romano will remain in custody pending ruling on whether bail which had earlier been granted will be cancelled, a Malindi court has ruled. The three suspects, Ibrahim Omar, Abdulla Wario, and Moses Liwali on Friday, August 30, appeared before the Malindi Chief Magistrate Court on counts of conspiracy to commit a terrorist act within Kenya. They entered a plea of not guilty. The court ruled that the suspects remain in custody as they sought the cancellation of bail that had earlier been granted to the suspects. Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji had earlier directed that the charge sheet of the three suspects be amended. He said that an application should be presented before the court for cancellation of bail. "Pursuant to the review of evidence on record, the DPP directed that the charge sheet be amended and an application be made before court for cancellation of bail, " the DPP's Office said in a tweet. The DPP office said that they have worked in collaboration with the Italian Government Law Enforcement agencies at all levels. On November 20, 2018, Silvia, the manager of African Milele Onlus, was abducted at her rental home in Chakama in Kilifi. The Italian aid worker who was abducted by gunmen in Kilifi was confirmed alive by the Italian government. The kidnappers were reportedly holding her with the intention of demanding a ransom. The then Inspector General of National Police Service Joseph Boinnet offered a reward of Sh3 million to any Kenyan who volunteered information on the whereabouts of Silvia. Three people among them the wife of a gunman who kidnapped her appeared in a Malindi court on December 4. Rukia Nuno, who has a two-week-old infant, Dumal Haji Osman and Hassan Borow Khamis were, however, not charged. Malindi Chief Magistrate Julie Oseko allowed the suspects to be detained by police for 20 days then charged. Investigators said they extended the search for Romano to Mombasa, Kilifi, Garrisa, Tana River and Somalia. They believed the abductors were trying to cross into Somalia with the aid worker. Security officials are using drones to track the abductor's movement.