Two people suffered serious injuries after an oil truck rammed into a matatu and caused multiple accidents at Kambiti on the Kenol-Sagana highway. Murang’a South subcounty police commander Dorothy Waitenga said the accident occurred at around 10pm on Monday night. She said the oil truck that was heading to Sagana lost control on a slope and hit the matatu that was in front of it. The driver swerved and hit an oncoming canter before the truck overturned and caught fire. A salon car was also slightly hit as the truck overturned. Waitenga confirmed that two people who were in the canter sustained the worst injuries, while two others in the matatu suffered minor injuries. The victims were rushed to Thika Level 5 Hospital. Waitenga could, however, not confirm the whereabouts of the truck’s driver and whether he was able to run to safety. “We have not established whether the driver was able to save himself before the truck burst into fire, but we have no confirmed death,” she said. She said firefighters from Kenol town reached the scene quickly and contained the fire before it spread to other vehicles. Witnesses urged the government to instal speed bumps along the highway between Makuyu and Kambiti. Peter Kamau said the accidents will be reduced once the highway is upgraded to a dual carriageway and a weighbridge established to ensure trucks do not over load. Witnesses said many pedestrians have also lost their lives on the stretch of the highway after being hit by speeding vehicles, many of which flee. In May this year, police officers from Makuyu police station erected signposts along the busy highway to avert accidents. Led by the traffic commander Abdullahi Tato, police officers erected road signs in  Gakungu area, where many pedestrians lost their lives as they to access Gakungu roadside market. Others were hit by speeding motorists as they crossed the road from Kimorori to the Makuyu side. Tato said the sign posts were to slow down motorists as they approached the area, saying they took drastic measures after realising that conducting sensitisation in public forums and school forums on proper road usage did not stop the accidents.  