A steering committee has been formed to carry out the second phase of Mau evictions. Rift Valley regional coordinator George Natembeya on Monday said 10,000 households in Maasai Mau are targeting in the drive. “We are ready for the second phase of the evictions. We have deployed sufficient personnel on the ground to do the work. We want to clarify that the number of households to be affected in the evictions are 10,000 and not 60,000 as earlier reported,” Natembeya said. He spoke in his office when he unveiled 10 members of the steering committee two days after some Rift Valley leaders opposed the impending evictions. The leaders said if sanctioned, some 8,000 school going children, including 1,000 candidates,  will suffer. The candidates are to sit the national examinations at the end of the year. But Natembeya said there is no public school in the area where evictions will be done. “Let me be on recorded that there is no public school in that area. Those claiming so, let them come out and say which schools will be affected,” he said. He, however, lauded leaders who have supported the exercise. "I thank leaders to have realised that keeping people in the forest is not sustainable. Mau Forest is the largest water tower in the country," Natembeya said. "Leaders are raising the issue of how the exercise will be done. It will be done in a humane way. We do not want to have internally displaced persons camping in the area." The county commissioner warned a section of politicians who are politicising the matter. Natembeya said there will be no compensation paid to the people to be moved. He said the people who feel aggrieved because they have title deeds should come forward with their document for investigation. The government evicted 10,000 illegal settlers in phase one at Reiya group ranch. The second phase consists Nkoben, Ilmotiok and Ololunga. Others are Enokishomi, Enoosokon, Nkaroni and Sisian. Environment Cabinet Secretary Keriako Tobiko on July 25, Tobiko announced plans to evict people from the forest. This sparked a heated debate among Rift Valley leaders. Some leaders met former Prime Minister Raila Odinga in Nairobi a week ago, and held consultations with Baringo Senator Gideon Moi in Nakuru two weeks ago. They said they want the evictions stopped. Various MPs from the region met on Saturday in Nakuru to discuss the issue and are expected to meet Tobiko and  to discuss the looming eviction.