First and foremost, I think the Deputy President William Ruto picked his words very carefully by calling on Kenyans to approach the referendum push in a manner that will be a win-win situation for us all. The inference is that we have had a situation, before, where such exercise was undertaken with the sole purpose of dividing Kenyans so as to test political popularity. The DP’s call is part of unity, it is fresh and goes hand in hand with the message of President Uhuru Kenyatta and that of the Jubilee administration of uniting Kenya by building bridges between us. This latest development stands out for me because he is open to the fact that if we must have a referendum, it must be by Kenyans and for Kenyans and secondly, it cannot just be a referendum to create a superclass and sub-class. The other thing I think he is trying to bring out is that if there will be any referendum, it should not be for the elite to just exercise their rights as they want, but they should also listen to what other stakeholders are saying and try to give Kenyans what will enhance their lives. Whenever we have a process driven by stakeholders, the next step you do after writing the report is to do the validation . Validation means taking back the report to the people you talked to and asking them if what they said is what was captured, then you give them an opportunity to say yes or no. They can suggest amendments or agree with the report. The process of validation is referred to as public participation and this has been enshrined in the Constitution. Given that the report that will come out from BBI is not final, this report must go back to the people for them to confirm that their suggestions were incorporated in the report. BBI has one more hurdle to jump; they were gazetted to look into some issues, if it was about a referendum, then that is a separate process which is provided in the Constitution under Article 255,256 and 257. Parliament can change the Constitution and the people as well directly and therefore outside those two processes, you cannot purport to change the Constitution. The analyst who is also an advocate spoke to the Star