Team Kenya to the World Martial Arts Mastership Tong Il Moo Do Championship in Chungju City,  South Korea finished second after amassing a total of nine medals-two gold, two silver and five bronze medals. Rose Wacheke gave Kenya a  silver medal on the last day of the championships to boost the medal tally. Wacheke, who overpowered Ailin Micaela of Paraguay 18-12 in the semifinal found the demanding final match against Thailand's Kachana Dawan tough. In the first round, Wacheke's kicks missed the target time and again allowing Dawan to take a 10-4 lead, which she defended in the second round. "My opponent enjoyed height advantage and swept me unawares thus making it hard for my rescue," said Wacheke. The first day of the competition was where the Kenyan team signalled their intent of bagging five medals. Gordon Ochieng and Lona Abiero won gold for Kenya while Salma Ali, Patricia Lucky and Peter Njenga struck a bronze medal each. Thailand finished top of the medal table with a total of seven,  pipping Kenya by hauling in three gold medals. Iran finished third with none of the other African countries — Ivory Coast, Zambia, Burkina Faso and Nigeria, picking up any medal. Kenya Tong Il Moo Do Secretary Hillary Wahanda blamed the jury on biased officiating. "When Kenya was playing the Philippines, the jury kept pausing the match due to persistent interventions by their coaches, which they use as tactics to intimidate the umpires," said  Wahanda. However, the federation President Clarence Mwakio hailed his players for their exemplary the competition was tough. "Although we did not grab the top spot, our presence was felt. It is fair to say it was better performance than 2016 when he made our debut," said Mwakio. Earlier in the men's 70kg sparring, experienced Evans Oduory was knocked out in the 58th second of the first round of their semifinal. However, despite the defeat by River Desuyo from the Philippines, Oduory won Kenya a bronze medal by virtue of making it to the semifinals. Elvis Malipe gave Kenya the fifth bronze after making it to the semifinal where he lost to Arnel Ano-os from the Philippines. Kenya wrapped up the medal haul with a silver in men's open on basic (team forms) category after they scooped 8.8 points against winners Philippines 8.9 points who grabbed the gold medal.