Good morning, The government has mobilised more than 140,000 police officers to monitor the national census that begins this evening at 6pm. This will be Kenya's first paperless census, its largest ever, covering more than two million households. The seven-day population and housing census will be conducted from 6pm-6am today and tomorrow. From Monday the count will proceed during the day until August 31. Here are the other stories making headlines in the Star this morning. The disgrace of the Nairobi County Assembly has manifested itself yet again after the revelation that the MCAs pocketed Sh300 million in nine months but passed only one bill. More than a year ago the venerable MCAs passed the Outdoor Advertising and Signage Control and Regulation Bill. That's all. Further, lack of quorum and constant 'lack of business' continue to bog down assembly proceedings. When his wife was pregnant, they performed a sonogram that revealed they would be having a baby boy. A few years down the line, Peter Maingi, now a father of three, says he has gone through too much to handle. His child, now eight, was born intersex. "Life changes a lot because you move from being stable and working to constantly being in the hospital," he said. She is one of  Kenya's most influential women. Tabitha Karanja is known for helping to liberalise the liquor business and has faced off with established multinationals in the industry, fighting to claim her fair share. Her first business was a hardware shop she opened with her husband, Joseph. The hardware business was successful but Karanja also wanted to try her hand at manufacturing. The great Irish theatre critic and playwright George Bernard Shaw once said that we use the mirror to see our face, but we use works of art to see our souls. This month, the veracity of this statement came alive with the staging of one of our country’s best plays since independence, Redemption. The play was staged at the newly refurbished Kenya National Theatre in Nairobi on August 8. The proposal to increase capital gain tax to 12.5 per cent levied on the transfer of property has faced a hurdle, a month away to its implementation. In a memorandum by Patrick Maina Nderitu, Hedrick Masaki Omanwa and Romano Wachiye to the Finance Committee of National Assembly, the three have said the tax on gains from sales of assets will discourage investments as it effects a double-tax.