Fed-up Mauricio Pochettino declared on Tuesday night that he was not to blame for Tottenham’s underwhelming transfer activity and suggested his job title should be changed from manager to coach. Spurs, in need of reinforcements, have signed just two players this window — with one immediately heading out on loan — while four have left. And the Argentine, speaking after a 1-0 victory over Real Madrid in Munich, claimed that he was not in control of incomings and outgoings at the north London outfit. “I am not in charge,” he said. “I know nothing about the situation of my players. I am only coaching them, trying to get the best from them. This type of thing, sell or buy players, extend contract or not extend contract: it’s not in my hands, it’s in the club’s hands and in Daniel Levy’s hands. I am managing the team in the best way possible.” When asked what had changed Pochettino, whose side won thanks to a first-half Harry Kane goal, said: ‘Maybe the club need to change my title description now, because my job now is to coach the team. It’s not a question for me, it’s a question for the club. “I am not in charge of individual situations. I am the boss designing the strategy to train, to play, the methodology, the philosophy in my area. But in another area. Today, I think I am the coach.” Pochettino’s comments are likely to ramp up the pressure on chairman Levy, with the transfer window closing a week on Wednesday. After losing the Champions League final and securing four top-four finishes in a row, Spurs fans had hoped for new arrivals to allow them to take the next step. While things may change, the signs are not good. Tanguy Ndombele has arrived for a club-record £65m and Tottenham are keen on Juventus striker Paulo Dybala, but any move for a man interesting Manchester United is ambitious. Danny Rose, who was left in London when Spurs toured Asia to secure a move away from the club, started against Real here and performed well for 45 minutes. However, when asked about the England full back’s future Pochettino, who has been prickly all summer when asked about transfers, delivered another surly response. “I told you in Singapore and in China. I think I was very clear about the situation of the squad. Danny Rose, like another 25, 26 players that are here, is my player, and I don’t know what I need to say, because I think it was very clear in the past.” Tottenham will return to the Allianz Arena to face Bayern Munich in the final of the Audi Cup on Wednesday night. Real were without Gareth Bale. The Welshman was too distressed to travel after his big-money move to China collapsed but manager Zinedine Zidane claimed he was simply not fit. “He didn’t travel with us because he didn’t feel that well,” he said.