Tottenham Hotspur fans quite rightly expect a lot from the team this season. They have a new superb state-of-the-art stadium, good quality medical and training staff and a solid fan base which fills the 62,000 capacity stadium every week. Most importantly, Spurs have several players who would fit straight into any top European squad. So what is going wrong at White Hart Lane? After the defeat to struggling Newcastle, manager Mauricio Pochettino spoke to us in a very negative, shoulders down, defeated manner which is unlike him. He was also edgy and slightly aggressive towards questioning. It is true that despite signing the excellent Tanguy Ndombele and Ryan Sessegnon, Pochettino wanted more backing from the club. With both Christian Eriksen and Jan Vertonghen on the bench against Palace, good players like Davinson Sanchez were completely overrun. Newcastle are a team who should not be giving top six clubs the runaround. There is a lot of doubt surrounding Eriksen who looks visibly unsettled and wants to leave and the way he is training and making lacklustre appearances indicates that his heart is not at the club. Pochettino admitted this week that the current team is the most unsettled since he became manager six years ago. He said: “We have an unsettled group for different reasons and different personal circumstances.” Toby Alderweireld is still at the club but only because his summer transfer plans did not work out for him and Kenyan midfielder Victor Wanyama is on his way to Belgian side Brugge, providing there are no last minute problems. Tottenham are resigned to Eriksen eventually leaving but the club do not have another playmaker of his quality waiting to step into his shoes. The brilliance of Harry Kane can only win games if he is given chances and that is what Eriksen provided week after week last season. This weekend, both North London managers will be severely tested as Tottenham take on Arsenal, who also have their own problems. Tottenham’s training ground assistants pointed out that Lucas Moura and others only seem to perform well when they come on as substitutes. So what is going on? When Pochettino arrived for training on Monday he parked his car and made his way to the dressing rooms, speaking to no one and with a serious dejected look on his face. The usual video analysis and discussions about the Newcastle defeat took place and it was obvious that the presence of Christian Eriksen did more harm than good. It is unlikely now that he will get his wish and leave for either Real Madrid or Barcelona before the European transfer window closes and therefore he should do his very best for the Tottenham team instead of showing half-hearted interest. His body language is all wrong and it is affecting other team members. There is speculation that he is casting an air of depression over the club. If he doesn’t give of his best, many people at the club feel his days at Spurs are finished anyway and whilst acknowledging that he is one of the best and most creative midfielders in the world, he should be kept away from the first team squad. Reluctantly, majority of the fans in the stands agree. Pochettino needs to inject more enthusiasm, hunger and sense of urgency into his players before it is too late in such a competitive league.  Emery gets his tactics all wrong The other manager involved in this weekend’s London derby, Arsenal’s Unai Emery, has also faced heavy criticism this week. Against Liverpool last weekend, he simply got it all wrong. Will he do the same against Tottenham? Any manager visiting Liverpool should prepare his team to prevent the full-backs Trent Alexander-Arnold and Andy Robertson running down the wings to cross for strikers Sadio Mane, Roberto Firmino and Mo Salah. Emery did not do that. I also noticed that Firmino must have dropped back into midfield more than 30 times and not one Arsenal player picked him up! At the same time, the Gunners’ new defender, David Luiz demonstrated how he cannot play in a back four system. Salah gave him a terrible time, simply running past him leaving him stranded and also creating the penalty chance when Luiz could only stop him by tugging his shirt. Emery, like Pochettino made use of videos and showed his players what went wrong and what they are up against this weekend as they tackle Spurs. They have spent the week working on moves to shackle Harry Kane and Heung Son Min whilst acknowledging that this game will be won from midfield. It is difficult to see where the match might go but one thing is certain…both managers are on trial and the fans will not be forgiving if they lose to their most bitter rivals.  Wanyama on way out of Tottenham I have always liked Victor Wanyama as a solid player and reliable defensive midfielder. He has played some very good games for Tottenham over the years. Unfortunately manager Mauricio Pochettino does not currently share my enthusiasm for the Kenyan international. Victor has started only 47 games since joining Spurs in 2016 but this is partly because he has had to cope with injuries over the past two seasons. His latest misery at being left out of the team and not even on the bench, might end as Belgian side Club Brugge have opened talks with Spurs who will let Wanyama go for £8m. This is acceptable to Brugge. However, his £65k salary is too high. If a loan deal is arranged then Spurs will likely have to pay some of Victor’s wages but if the deal is permanent then he will likely have to take a pay cut. September 2 is Europe’s transfer window end and Victor must wait to see what happens.  Kovacic more relaxed under Lampard One player to benefit from Frank Lampard’s new reign at Chelsea is Mateo Kovacic. When N’Golo Kante was injured in training, Kovacic was drafted into the team and he took that opportunity with a good display of incisive passing and a desire to get to the heart of the action and break up opponent’s attacks. Norwich were the opponents and Mateo left the field to applause from his manager and the fans. He is called ‘The Professor’ because he speaks five languages and is quick to recognise what Lampard has given to him. He said: “The manager has given me more freedom to come and take the ball and move forward so I feel I have a good connection with the coaching system. Last year, I was only on loan but now I am a Chelsea player and it gives me extra confidence and I feel more relaxed.”  Gracia in danger at Watford If, as a manager, your team is scoring goals and getting points, you are a hero but if you are not and your team is sitting at the bottom of the Premier League, then your board of directors meet on Sundays and discuss sacking you. That is the position Watford’s Javi Gracia finds himself in, after his Hornets side lost 3-1 to West Ham in front of their own fans. Watford have now lost seven matches in a row which hadn’t happened for 20 years. The manager was challenged when he fought off suggestions that he would be sacked if Watford lose again to Newcastle this weekend. He would only say: “The dynamic is not good and we need to improve. I know that. I am preparing for the next game. If we win or lose I always focus on the next game.” It could be he will be focusing for the last time this weekend. He signed a new four-year deal last November but that might not save him if Watford still have no points tomorrow morning.  Hudson-Odoi fights for fitness The worry over Chelsea’s Callum Hudson-Odoi and his ruptured Achilles tendon, sustained in April, is that he might lose some of his explosive power. For an 18 year-old to need surgery, be fitted with a special boot and to lose considerable calf muscle strength is bad enough but then there are the weeks of physio, gym work and constant specialist training. The achilles joins the calf muscles and the heel and is the thickest tendon in the body and the stress and strain it has to endure during a game of football is probably equivalent to ten times the body weight. Therefore when an achilles tendon ruptures it is a possible career ending injury. As Callum goes through his training ground routines in order to strengthen the tendon he then has a painful 20 minute friction massage on the scar tissue to make it softer and more pliable. A supportive anti-gravity treadmill, hours of running, skipping and jumping is all part of the treatment. The good news for Hudson-Odoi is that David Beckham, Laurent Kosielny and Jermaine Jenas all suffered the same injury and went on to make a complete recovery.  Your rightful place Ole! Ole Gunner Solskjaer is a humble chap and as a mark of respect to former manager Sir Alex Ferguson he has never used the manager’s private slot in the VIP car park. The Executive Vice-Chairman has told Ole he must take up his rightful place as he feels it is a mark of the modern Manchester United and the present club set-up and not to keep thinking back to previous years. Personally, I think that, with last week’s home loss to Crystal Palace, he had better quickly use the parking spot while it is still his!