More than 1,000 deaf people in Kilifi county may not be counted in the ongoing census due to lack of interpreters. The deaf reportedly applied for the positions of enumerators but none were shortlisted or recruited for the census. In Serena, Malindi town, a 33-year-old woman with a hearing disability was not counted because she did not hear the enumerators knocking on the door on Saturday night. We met Mildred Indakalla in her room and luckily got an interpreter, Willy Mwangi. Indakalla a beautician, said she stays alone in her rental room. On the first night of census, she said she went home early and prepared supper at about 7pm. Unknown to her, the enumerators came knocking on her door, but left when she did not open. "In the morning, neighbours told me that I had missed out on being counted because I did not open the door for the census people," she said. She said it would have been easy for the enumerators to reach her if they had either an interpreter or a deaf person like her. Mwangi, a sign language interpreter and a civic educator with Uraia, said census is an important exercise and the deaf are supposed to share their information so the government can understand their challenges. "We have institutions that understand the importance of this. Deaf people applied for enumerators jobs but were not given a chance," he said. Mwangi said in another case at Ngala estate, a deaf woman was also not counted because she did not hear the enumerators knocking on her door. Mwangi said after writing the applications, they wrote complaint letters to nominated MCA representing the physically challenged people, the DCC, and the regional coordinator for deaf people, but they have not received a response. In Malindi, seven visually impaired people applied and four had previously worked with the IEBC but were not given a chance. Magarini MP Michael Kingi who was counted on Sunday at his Malindi home, urged the government to provide interpreters to give the deaf people a chance to give out their information during the census. Kingi said the problem could be all over the country. Last week, the Kenya National Association of the Deaf wanted deaf people included in enumerators team, raising concerns of possible isolation. Chairman Nickson Gikiri said they had written several letters to the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics asking for a meeting to discuss how to ensure accurate data of the deaf is collected "but were not given an audience". "The deaf are going to be shocked when they see the census people. They do not know anything about the census," Washington Akaranga from the Kenya Signs Language Research project said last week. He said most were left out in the 2009 exercise.