The Kenya National Union of Teachers has claimed the Teachers Service Commission’s failure to deduct and remit dues from its members is a scheme to kill the union. Senior Counsel Paul Muite told Justice Byrum Ongaya the commission has gone completely rogue after it disobeyed orders issued by Justice Maurren Onyango two weeks ago requiring it to effect union deductions for the months of July and August. “TSC is just playing games with the union so as to buy time and continue disobeying the court orders.They have arbitrarily decided they will not comply with the orders. It is only this court that can save workers' constitutional rights,” said Muite. Muite said Knut cannot operate without money and it is clear the commission’s objective is to kill the teacher's union. But the commission told the court they were unable to deduct the fees due to a technical hitch. “We were in the process of dividing the TSC payroll into two and in the process we ran into a legitimate technology problem which has caused us not to deduct the union dues. We are struggling to rectify that situation. We intend to do so by September,” said TSC’s lawyer. TSC also told the court it will be filing an application seeking to have Justice Byrum recuse himself. Knut has filed an application seeking to have the commission held in contempt of court. On July 12, Judge Byrum set aside the transfer of union officials beyond the geographical limits where they are elected to serve.  He also directed that transfer of teachers be undertaken in accordance with the provisions of the Code of Regulations for Teachers (CORT). Knut through lawyer Hillary Sigei said TSC in contempt of the court order placed an advertisement in the dailies inviting applications from suitably qualified candidates to fill the positions of head teacher and deputy head teacher contrary to provisions of the CORT. According to court documents, the list of the union officials whose transfer had been set aside by court have not been retransferred as per the order to be within their geographical limits of representation. “Court orders are not made in vain but are meant to be obeyed and contemnors have intentionally ignored to implement the court orders issued on July 12 this year,” said Sigei. Sigei said the orders of July 12 have not been set aside or varied and it is in the interest of justice that the court intervenes and punishes the contemnors for contempt. The case will be mentioned on September 3 for further directions.