Good morning, Deputy President William Ruto has said the constitutional review should be a win-win for Kenyans and not a tool to divide the country. He asked Kenyans to ignore leaders who want to take advantage of calls for a referendum to amend the Constitution as a route to create division, hatred and confusion in the country. He said matters pertaining to the Constitution were weighty, and required the input of all Kenyans. Here are the other stories making headlines in the Star this morning. The Mbagathi Hospital has 97 unidentified and unclaimed bodies in its morgue. The hospital has appealed to those with missing loved ones to visit and establish if they are among those in the mortuary. Mbagathi is also appealing for the collection of the 56 male and 41 female bodies.  The Wiper Party is considering Kisauni MP Ali Mbogo as its chairman and candidate for Mombasa governor in 2022. It has considered at least three other non-Wiper party politicians, notably businessman-politician Suleiman Shahbal who turned it down last year. Kalonzo wants Shahbal back in the fold after he ran unsuccessfully for Mombasa governor on the Jubilee ticket. Edward Ouko left the office of Auditor General on Monday without a successor. His replacement should have been recruited before he left the office. Ouko had been at the helm of the Office of the Auditor General (OAG) for nine years. President Uhuru Kenyatta is expected to, within seven days from August 26, declare the vacancy through a gazette notice. The notice should invite applications which should be forwarded to the Public Service Commission within 14 days. Musalia Mudavadi-led ANC is expected to unveil former opposition leader Raila Odinga's chief strategist Eliud Owalo as its candidate in the Kibra by-election. The Nairobi based consultant will face off with a number of candidates from Jubilee, ODM and other parties. Deputy party leader and Lugari MP Ayub Savula told the Star Owalo will be unveiled in a grand event at 10am at the party headquarters. Kenya Airways has reported a Sh8.6 billion loss for the six months to June 30 sinking deeper in the red as increased operating costs came back to haunt the national carrier. The net loss has more than doubled compared to the Sh4billion loss reported in a similar period last year, even as the airline mulls over replacement of its CEO Sebastian Mikosz who is expected to exit in December.