Wajir leaders fear a dramatic undercount because they say there are too few census takers, too little transport money and enumeration sites are widely separated and hard to access. They want the national government and Bureau of Statistics to urgently address the problems to ensure the census is a successl. Speaking to the press in Wajir town on Wednesday, the leaders said the census will fail without immediate action. They spoke after a meeting of county and regional security and intelligence committees. It was led by regional commissioner Mohamed Birik who was joined by Wajir south MP Muhamud Omar, Ahmed Abdisalan of Wajir North and Woman Representative Fatuma Gedi. Omar said authorities had not adequately factored in the issue of transportation costs for enumerators, security, supervisors and IT people who must visit far-flung areas. Lack of money has led to lack of ability to work to the maximum, he said. “Our region is expansive and connecting to locations, villages and towns can be extremely challenging because of poor roads and networks," he said. He added, “These people cannot penetrate through the villages and the arid areas in good time. Delayed access to the communities is as good as not accessing them because we're are talking about many hours," he said. “I am worried we might be undercounted, not because we don’t have the population but simply because we don’t have sufficient number enumerators and that must be addressed as soon as possible," he said. Gedi said enumeration areas are far apart and the number of enumerators is too small compared to the large population. She said the government erred in an early pre mapping exercise and used existing numbers to post enumerators. Man pastoralists who had moved out of their constituencies in search of pasture and water have returned to their homes to be counted but there are far from enough enumerators, Gedi said. The region commissioner said the government was doing everything possible to make sure the problems are addressed. “We have asked political leaders to join hands to ensure that we have a credible census. I have instructed security and intelligence committees to work with census committees for daily planning to ensure everyone is counted," Birik said. (Edited by V. Graham)