Amani National Congress party leader Musalia Mudavadi has urged Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka not to take critics from his backyard for enemies. Mudavadi said democracy gives space for leaders to vie for any political position under which they can serve Kenyans. The former deputy prime minister spoke during a tour of Makueni county on Friday. “Let it not be treated as hostility or enmity when a politician declares interest in serving Kenyans, whether as president, governor or MP,” Mudavadi said. Earlier, Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana had said that the Luyha community had produced three presidential aspirants before without the sibling rivalry witnessed in Ukambani. “Teach us how to do it so that when Kalonzo, Alfred Mutua and I declare interest in the presidential seat none of us sees the other as a spoiler,” Kibwana said. Kalonzo and his allies have been pouring cold water on Kibwana and Mutua’s candidature. The critics say that Mutua and Kibwana are not serious candidates but are looking for relevance in the next government after the end of their terms. Mudavadi said there was nothing wrong with Kibwana vying for the presidency as long as he is legally qualified. “Kibwana has shown his interest in serving Kenyans as a president, he is constitutionally right and Kenyans should not think he is wrong,” the former vice president said. Mudavadi is among politicians who have declared their candidature for the presidency in 2022. The ANC boss said he will concede defeat if Kibwana beats him democratically. However, the two said they had formed a working relationship since their manifestos had so many similarities. Mudavadi called on leaders to focus on uniting Kenyans. The former Sabatia MP toured Kalamba fruit processing plant and the Makueni Mother and Child Hospital. He praised Kibwana and his government for the projects and urged other devolved governments to stop wasting taxpayers funds benchmarking in foreign countries. He was accompanied by MPs Ayub Savula (Lugari), Kasim Tandaza (Matunga) and Tindi Mwale (Butere). Kibwana was flanked by his deputy Adelina Mwau, health executive Andrew Mulwa and health chief officer Patrick Musyoki. (edited by O. Owino)