National Super League side Vihiga United have recruited 10 new players to bolster their squad ahead of their campaign to seek promotion back to the Premier League. The team that is sponsored by the County Government of Vihiga has further released 16 players, retaining 15 of their former players. Club president Kahi Indimuli said the move was aimed at reclaiming their lost glory after being relegated from the Premier League last season. The team was promoted to the Premier League in 2017, just four years after its formation. “The team we have assembled has been given only one target, to get us back to the Premier League. We want by the end of the year, not to have excuses on what we have not achieved. We want to be talking about our plans back in the premier league,” Mr Indimuli said. Sammy Okoth, who joined the team as an interim coach replacing Mike Mururi, has been confirmed on a permanent basis and is joined by former Kenyan international Nick Yakhama as the technical director and Collins Oduor as the goalkeeper trainer. Among the new players are Peter Joma from Zoo Youth, Hillary Otieno an attacking midfielder from AP Nairobi, Richard Swegenyi from Division I side Vihiga Sportif, Kelvin Okinda from AP Nairobi and Morgan Abuko from Chemelil. Others include Kelvin Opiyo from Thika United, Leslie Otieno from Kariobangi Sharks Youth, Mark Owino from Kenyatta University, Absalom Onyango from Migori Youth and Michael Odongo from Thika United. The released players are  Kenyan international Bernard Ochieng’ — who joined Wazito FC, Vincent Wanda — who joined AFC Leopards, Chris Masinza and Stephen Wakanya — who joined Kakamega Homeboyz. Others include Amos Kigadi, Kelvin Muhanji, David Kavaji, Godfrey Airo, Edwin Mukoya, Rashid Kyambadde, Caleb Wamalwa, Patrick Ndikuyiro, Lewis Opiyo, Edmond Mauda, Elija Mwanzia and Timothy Luda. Indimuli said the club will look to add three youthful players. Vihiga Deputy Governor Patrick Saisi said the County government is still committed to supporting the club. “We shall do our best and help the team in whatever possible way so that it regains its status as a premier league club,” he said.