The number of chiefs arrested in Wajir for allegedly inflating census figures has risen to nine. Three were arrested on Monday and six more on Tuesday. Three are from Wajir South, three from Eldas and another three from Wajir North. County commissioner Lyford Kibaara on Tuesday warned that they will not tolerate manipulation of data. His remarks echoed statements issued barely two weeks ago by regional coordinator Mohamed Birik that they would not condone doctoring of data. Chiefs and their assistants were put on notice. Kibaara said they will not budge on the decision. “I want to caution anyone who cheats by filling incorrect information or numbers that they will be arrested and charged in a court of law. Let’s get the correct numbers,” he said. He did not, however, provide the names of the six chiefs arrested on Tuesday. On Monday, Central location chief Khalif Sirat, his assistant Khalid Mayo and Kumbi location chief Musa Abdi from Wajir South were accused of doubling the size of households. They were the first to be detained. “The three are currently in custody awaiting to be arraigned once the police complete their investigations. It’s a matter we are taking very seriously,” Kibaara said. “How do you explain a situation where a household has increased by double. Our preliminary investigations revealed that in some instances, some households increased by triple just a week after doing the pre-listing. It doesn’t add up at all.” The arrests caused an uproar among residents, who demanded the “immediate and unconditional release” of the local administrators.  They defended the chiefs and instead accused security officers of harassing them for “a mistake they did commit”. “We’re really saddened by the turn of events. We’ve learnt of the arrest of our chiefs and an assistant with great shock. What they are being accused of does not simply add up,” Hawa Mohamed said. “What they are being accused of doing is practically impossible because, for such a thing to happen, it could have been detected by the authorities a long time ago. Why are they noticing this a week later?” Abdi Hassan accused the government of portraying the chiefs as cheats and ones who were out to “cook figures when in actual sense they had done nothing wrong”. The residents threatened to boycott the rest of the exercise and make it difficult for enumerators to do their work. The ongoing exercise is to be concluded on Sunday and it could be derailed in the constituency if the residents make good their threat. On Tuesday, Wajir South MP Omar Mohammud held a meeting with the county commissioner. He did not, however, disclose what they discussed or agreed on in the meeting. (Edited by F'Orieny)