Poverty, female genital mutilation, illiteracy and social media are said to be the major causes of early pregnancies in West Pokot. The county's teen pregnancy rate is 29 per cent; the county has among the highest rates in Kenya. Organisations have proposed measures to reduce the rate to less than 20 per cent by 2021. Speaking on Tuesday at Mtello Hall during a county youth symposium, Winnie Cheptoo, an officer from Sikom Peace network, said the percentage was too high compared to the national figure. It's 18 per cent for girls between 15 and 19 years of age but the figure doesn't include girls 13, 14 and younger. “Peer pressure has contributed to early pregnancies since most girls want to experiment with what they have learnt from their friends,” Cheptoo said. She said parents are also to blame because they have left their children to make their own decisions. Cheptoo said parents are afraid to talk to their children about sex and most learn about sex through social media and from their friends. “These children are young and we cannot allow them to make decisions on their own. As parents, we need to be with our children at every stage of their lives. Let’s not leave our children to experiment with what they see on television or what they learn on social media,” she said. Cheptoosaid most parents in lowland areas do not know where their girls spend the night due to lack of shelter. “In remote areas, a homestead has only one hut and after dinner, older children are asked to look for a place to sleep. This has posed a great risk to girls,” she said. Shesaid FGM has also made matters worse because the girls who undergo the outlawed practice are told they are mature and can get married. West Pokot governor for the children's assembly Mercelina Chebet said the assembly has given a memorandum to the governor about early pregnancies. Chebet said they want to know what measures the county has taken to ensure the cases decline because girls' education has been hurt. (Edited by V. Graham)