Paul Pogba has admitted he is still unsure about his future after appearing in Manchester United’s crushing opening-day win against Chelsea. The France midfielder was expected to leave Old Trafford for Real Madrid this summer, but the Spanish club do not appear to be prepared to accept United’s asking price, reported being £180million. Pogba, who set up Marcus Rashford for his second goal against Chelsea with a brilliant long-range pass, told French radio station RMC Sport afterwards that there were still doubts over whether he will stay at United. “I always feel good when I play football. I do the things I like, plus it’s my job. I give my all every time I go out on the pitch,” he said. “I’m aware that things have been said. Only time will tell. There’s always that question mark. “I’m at Manchester. I have fun with my team-mates, I always want to win matches and I always give my best when I’m on the pitch.” The Spanish transfer window does not shut until September 2, but Real look set to sign Ajax midfielder Donny Van de Beek, who has reportedly claimed the two clubs are in talks over a transfer. United made a winning start to the new Premier League season, beating Chelsea 4-0 thanks to two goals from Rashford - his first from the penalty spot - Anthony Martial and debutant Daniel James. Meanwhile, Paul Pogba has heaped praise on new Manchester United team-mate Harry Maguire following his formidable debut against Chelsea. Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s side ran out emphatic 4-0 winners against their top-four rivals on Sunday at Old Trafford, with Maguire a calm presence in defence on his first outing since his £80million move. And Pogba, who shone in the second half, lauded the England international, telling French reporters: ‘I call him “The Beast”. “Honestly, as you saw, he was really impressive. He is a leader. He fit right in with us in training. “We talked about controlling the defence well and he has a good understanding with Victor (Lindelof). It was a very good match to start with from the whole team.’ Marcus Rashford bagged a double, while Anthony Martial and Daniel James on debut grabbed a goal each as they put Frank Lampard’s side to the sword.