A man has told a court that his houseboy used witchcraft to steal cash from his daughter's handbag. This created fear and tension in his home, he said. Philip Mativo has accused Dennis Mutiso of stealing Sh 25,000 belonging to his daughter Patricia and a cylinder gas among other items. He told Kibera senior resident magistrate Boaz Ombewa on Friday that he had traveled with his daughter to Dodoma in Tanzania. When they returned after a month, they found the house in a pathetic state. Mativo said he had left Mutiso in the house in South C, Nairobi. He said when they returned, the accused was reluctant to open the gate.  "Later he opened the gate and my daughter and I entered the compound," he said. "Since we were very tired, Mativo we did not eat. We went to sleep. Mativo said his daughter saw some witchcraft paraphernalia on top of her handbag the next morning. “I  woke up early in the morning to take a shower when I found a missed call from my daughter. She called again and told me to go into her bedroom. When I went there, I  found a strange on her bag  where she had  kept  her money," he said.. “I picked the bag and found a strange horn filled with grey powder," Mativo said. The horn was produced in court. Mativo said his daughter later told him that Sh25,000 she had kept in the bag was missing. He said upon checking, they realised that more items were missing.  “I called the accused who refused to pick my calls,” Mativo said. "When I checked in the servant's quarters where Dennis stayed, I did not find him. However, I saw him from the gate at a distance running away." Mativo said  he tried to pursue him, but the suspect disappeared. He found the suspect's ID card and Huduma Namba waiting card. He asked neighbours for help to catch the suspect. Mativo said Dennis was arrested in Makueni after two weeks and brought to  Lang'ata police station. He admitted to the police that he stole the gas cylinder and promised to show them where he sold it. “We went there with the police and collected cylinder Cylinder Patricia told the court that on May 10, together with her father, they planned to go to Tanzania to visit her mother. The student at Multimedia University of Kenya, said that her father had given her Sh25,000 to clear her fee balance. “Since I had to travel to Tanzania, I  decided to keep the money and pay it later after coming back.  But I found some old horns on my bag and the money was missing,” he told court. Ombewa directed the matter to be heard again next month. 