Good morning, Jubilee and ODM parties are treading cautiously in their nominations for Kibra, an indication of political fireworks ahead of the November 7 by-election. ODM on Wednesday called off the nominations planned for August 31 even as Jubilee disowned a leaked candidates list and ordered fresh applications by the end of business on Friday. The Star has established that the two political outfits are playing safe not to expose their flagbearers too early given the high stakes involved in the Kibra parliamentary race. Here are the other stories making headlines in the Star this morning. Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru has come under fire after declaring the Punguza Mizigo constitutional amendment initiative dead. The governor blasted Thirdway Alliance party leader Ekuru Aukot's bill saying Central Kenya was rallying behind President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition leader Raila Odinga's Building Bridges Initiative. Tough economic times await the media if the gaming regulator succeeds in its bid to regulate all betting advertisements. The Betting, Licensing and Control Board has come up with tough laws with a view to restricting advertisements - especially through TV and radio, that lure people to engage in betting. Mattress millionaires are now targeting businesses that generate rapid cash to beat the October 1 deadline for the phasing out of the old Sh1,000 bank notes. This comes even as the Central Bank of Kenya(CBK) remains mum on the impact of the ongoing demonetization which seeks to introduce a new currency into the market.  An former police officer has been found guilty of manslaughter after killing a credit officer in an alleged love triangle. Leonard Kanari, who appeared before Justice Jessie Lesiit, was accused of killing Christopher Muganda in Garden Estate in 2016. “The accused used intense force when he shot Muganda dead. He was unarmed and that is against the law,” the judge ruled. When Joyce Karisa walked into the Faza Subcounty Hospital in Lamu East, she was in labour. She looked forward to delivering her first baby. She took the intense labour pains in great stride and courage, for she knew it was all for a good course. The only problem is, she, like many other women in Lamu and across the country, had sought the services of a traditional midwife.