Kimilili MP Didmus Barasa (pictured) was captured on camera on Tuesday claiming that Kenyans will "deal with" an unnamed politician whom he alleged was crisscrossing the country sowing seeds of tribalism. Coming days after Nandi Senator Samson Cherargei was summoned by the DCI over his tribal outbursts, many could be wondering if the Jubilee MP's statements are calculated to stir ethnic animosity. Social media users yesterday called on the DCI to swiftly summon the MP to record a statement. It will be interesting to see what action security agencies will take on the vocal lawmaker. Did a motor vehicle company give some inducement to senior government officials in return for a contract to supply some state agencies with high-end cars? A little bird whispers to Corridors of Power that the renowned firm gave monetary and vehicle gifts to senior government officials to influence the award of the tender. This is despite the fact that the company quoted the highest in its bid. It has also emerged that this has been the trend for the company, which is said to be privileged in landing lucrative tenders to supply of vehicles to the government. It is said the motor vehicle lease deal is worth billions of shillings and runs for two years. The recruitment of a chief executive officer at rich State parastatal has run into headwinds. The powerful chairman of the state agency wants the position re-advertised in what has split the board of directors down the middle. Some board members are insisting that the applications received from the 86 applicants are enough to roll out the process of shortlisting, to the chagrin of the chairman. He is said to be holding brief for some powerful forces within the presidency. It is alleged that the chairman has turned himself into an employee of the company with daily assignments. It's said he might have received fresh orders from the powers that be and is favoured by some State House operatives. If there is one thing haunting some aspirants in the Kibra parliamentary race, it is the outsider factor. Yes, residents are said to be unanimous that they want one of their own: born and bred in the sprawling slums. Sources whisper to Corridors that one of the prominent aspirants is reconsidering his stand. He is said to be elitist and hardly interacts with people. Furthermore, he has had no relationship with Kibra. Many have also been reportedly telling him that he would destroy his career for no reason.