Komo residents in Thika East have protested against the deplorable state of roads and barricaded a road for three consecutive days. They said on Monday that they will not pay levies. Residents lit bonfires, carried twigs and placards on Monday and barricaded the Komo-Githima-Munyu-Kang’oki road for three consecutive dasys. All transport came to a halt. They accused Kiambu county failing to fix the road, which they said is impassable due to enormous potholes. The county takes hefty levies from lorries ferrying building stones from quarries, they said. However, a senior county official who didn’t want to be named, said the roads are on the radar and will be rehabilitated across the region. He didn't say when. He told residents to be patient. Residents said the roads have huge potholes and the dust from lorries causes asthma and other health problems. The region's stone mining provides high revenue to the county. Residents said more than 600 lorries transport stones on the roads every day, paying Sh500 to Sh1,000 to the county. Protesters also included stones transporters, boda boda operatorsand other residents. They claimed the county does nothing but collects more than Sh500,000 a day. “We are tired of being lied to. The county is only interested in levies. Enough is enough and no one will part with cash until roads are rehabilitated,” said Geoffrey Chege, the area boda boda riders’ chairman. Residents chased away revenue collection officers and warned them of dire consequences if they return before roads are fixed. Transporters too complained their vehicles are wearing out fast and they incur high repair and maintenance costs because of the bad roads. “Hardly a week goes by without our visiting a mechanic twice because of the roads. We paying required levies, they should do the road,” driver Mathew Maina said. The elderly and pregnant women are the most vulnerable, especially during rainy seasons. “We are forced to carry the sick on our backs because no small vehicles can pass. The other day a mother delivered along the road since she couldn’t get to the health facility," Mary Mwikali said. Resident James Warui said the county has been blocking attempts by private investors including quarry owners to rehabilitate the roads, saying that's the county's responsibility. “Whenever quarry owners bring graders to revamp the road, county officers arrest them. If the county is unable to do the work, why can't it allow capable private investors to assist them? resident Lukas Mundia asked. They pledged to form a committee to collect levies from the lorries and finance road rehabilitation as they know the pain caused by impassable roads. MP Patrick Wainaina calmed residents and promised the road would be rehabilitated in a week. (Edited by V. Graham) 