Arsenal are offering lucrative Champions League pay rises to Alexandre Lacazette and Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang as they aim to persuade their strike duo to sign new deals. After what was viewed as a successful transfer window for the Gunners, officials are turning their focus on renegotiating the contracts of their existing players. Talks are underway with Lacazette and Aubameyang over contract extensions. Both are already among the club’s highest earners — with Lacazette earning in the region of £140,000 a week and Aubameyang on close to £200,000 a week. Nevertheless, the pair will both be given substantial pay rises if they commit their futures to the north London club. Arsenal are also willing to include financial clauses that would trigger another pay hike if they can propel the club back into the Champions League. That would be in addition to one-off bonuses they would receive for qualifying for the competition. Arsenal’s wage bill is already swollen, meaning the Gunners cannot guarantee Lacazette and Aubameyang parity with top earner Mesut Ozil. But the increased revenue from playing Champions League football would help Arsenal finance incentivised wage increases. Lacazette and Aubameyang have proved themselves to be important figures during the Unai Emery regime — scoring 51 goals between them since the start of last season. But their futures could, of course, come into question if the club cannot persuade them to sign extensions. Aubameyang has entered the final two years of his contract, which would leave Arsenal with a big decision to make if he does not sign new terms before next summer. Lacazette has just under three seasons to run on his deal — but head of football relations Raul Sanllehi has made it clear he does not want players entering the final two years of their contracts. Speaking last Friday, manager Emery said: “Of course, for us, they are very important players and their contracts need to be in the same balance.” Lacazette has promised more goals, declaring: “The Premier League has not yet seen the best Lacazette. It has seen some very good, but not the best. I can score more goals and be more consistent.”