A former Homa Bay chief officer was on Tuesday charged with stealing two transportation containers valued at Sh700,000. Former roads chief officer Chris Agong was charged alongside the department's inspector John Paul Otieno before Homa Bay senior principal magistrate Thomas Obutu. They were accused of stealing the containers between May 5, 2017 and April 3, 2018 within Homa Bay town. The prosecution said the containers belong to Ocean Freight Limited and came into the possession of the accused by virtue of their employment in the county government. Agong and Otieno denied the charges and were granted Sh200,000 bail each. Obutu also granted them a bond of Sh500,000. “The accused persons have pleaded not guilty. They can be released upon meeting either of the conditions stated above,” Obutu said. The case will be mentioned on September 10 ahead of hearing on October 22. The suspects were arrested on Monday evening and detained at Homa Bay police station. The containers were transporting road construction implements from Mombasa to Homa Bay. They then disappeared mysteriously after delivering the goods. The loss of the containers was detected following the failure in the delivery of two fire fighting engines and an ambulance which were donated to the Homa Bay county government by a UK organisation. On May 15, Deputy Governor Hamilton Orata told journalists that the engines were already at the port of Mombasa. He said the engines would be delivered the following day. That is yet to happen. MCAs who went for a fact-finding mission in Mombasa found the equipment detained by a storage firm, citing the loss of the containers. The firm said it could not release the fire engines until the county government replaced the stolen containers. County Secretary Isaiah Ogwe had earlier confirmed the containers delivered goods to the county. On Tuesday, Homa Bay county police commander Esther Seroney said investigations found Agong and Otieno were responsible for the loss of the containers.  edited by peter obuya