Residents of Kiambu have questioned a trip to Mombasa by Deputy Governor James Nyoro, county executives and MCAs. They took to social media on Friday to protest the retreat which they said should have been held in Kiambu instead of wasting taxpayers' money. Resident Chinku Waria posted in a WhatsApp group that the deputy governor seems to be out to woo Kiambu leaders after allegedly using a lot of cash. Kiambu elected leaders are part of the WhatsApp group dubbed 'Ikinu Notice Board. "It is slowly starting to sink that Kiambu residents have been thrown from the frying pan into the fire, thanks to bad personal decisions. Deputy Governor Nyoro  is clearly out of touch with 'Wanjiku' reality," he wrote. His remarks were rubbished by another resident Tony Chege, who said Nyoro is in Mombasa for a valid reason. Nyoro took over the running of the county in an acting capacity after a court barred Governor Ferdinand Waititu from accessing his office. Waititu and his wife Susan Wangari on July 29 denied charges in a Sh588 million illegal road tender case. Magistrate Lawrence Mugambi barred him from accessing his office. Nyoro's attempts to transfer some CECs and sack casual workers failed. Youth and Sports executive Karungo wa Thangwa and his Finance counterpart Kigo Njenga were not invited for the Coast trip. Several members of executive are also invited to discuss key issues about our great county. You can verify that from reliable sources before spreading rumours’ Read the post. Kinoo MCA Samuel Wanjiku told the Star all MCAs are at the Coast for a week to plan matters concerning the county. "We are on an official retreat at the Coast and our main agenda is discussing the way forward, how we will deliver services effectively and development matters," Wanjiku said. He said MCAs have  put aside their affiliations. He said what matters now is for leaders to work together and not who supports either Governor Waititu or the Deputy Governor Nyoro. “The meeting was even called by those who have pledged loyalty to Governor Waititu. We all thought it important to work as a team,” Wanjiku said. He said top on the agenda is the discussion on bursary funds. He said they want every needy child in Kiambu to go to school in third term. He said they will also discuss the Jijenge Fund. “We will discuss about Jijenge Fund which was formerly Biashara Fund. When we took over office the account had Sh100 million but now we are now being told that per ward out of the 60  wards they can only receive Sh500,000," Wanjiku said. "This translates to Sh30 million. Where is the rest of the money ? This are the things we are going to interrogate and other key developments going on in the county." Early this month, Energy PS Joseph Njoroge met with the deputy governor, the senator, the woman representative, MPs and other key stakeholders in charge of national government projects. They discussed development matters and on ongoing projects to establish why some projects have stalled. The governor snubbed the meeting. The MCAs will resume their sittings on September 3. There are pending crucial bills that need to passed . They will discuss motions and address issues such as workers's pay. Deputy Governor Nyoro is on record saying that he wants Kiambu people to judge him by the work he will do and will not be talking much since.