Arsenal’s stunning club-record capture of Nicolas Pepe was prioritised in the hope that he will help cure their travel sickness. Although their defensive issues need addressing urgently, the £72million move for Pepe was completed first, and he has signed a five-year deal. Arsenal’s form on the road last season was a major handicap and the reason why they missed out on the Champions League. Yet this pacey forward, rather than a solid centre-back, is seen as the player who could provide the solution. While they were the Premier League’s third best side at home with 45 points last season, Arsenal picked up just 25 away from the Emirates Stadium, losing eight times and drawing four matches, giving them the eighth-best record in the division. Arsenal finished just a point outside the top four and failing to qualify for the Champions League put a significant dent in their transfer budget this summer. Arsenal were fully aware their defence needs strengthening this summer but, as a result of their damaging away form, prioritised adding players who will help them break teams down away from home during this window. They moved for Crystal Palace’s Wilfried Zaha first, failing with a £40m bid and follow-up approaches that included offering players plus cash. But in two of the players they have secured, creative midfielder Dani Ceballos and Pepe, who is renowned for his pace and finishing ability, Emery is confident his side will now carry greater threat on the road and be able to overcome the struggles they faced last season. Emery will now focus on trying to strengthen his defence with what is left of his budget. Arsenal are closing in on a £25m deal for Celtic’s Kieran Tierney, having restructured their offer after seeing two bids rejected and also want a senior centre-back. Their backline will also be further reinforced by the returns from injury of Rob Holding and Hector Bellerin who have both been sidelined with serious knee injuries. No matter who else joins, Arsenal have made a real statement of intent by capturing Pepe, whose breakout season last term put him on the radar of Europe’s top clubs. The north Londoners were among a number of sides alerted to the forward who scored 23 times in 40 appearances for Lille and he was high on their list of attacking targets heading into this transfer window. The concern was whether they could land him amid such fierce competition. This season they are also unable to offer the lure of Champions League football to prospective signings. But once they received sufficient encouragement that Pepe wanted to move to the Emirates and Lille were open to a structured deal that worked with Arsenal’s financial situation they put the wheels in motion to bring him to the Emirates. Arsenal will pay an initial £20m with the remaining £52m spread over the next five years. Alongside 18 year-old French defender William Saliba, who will spend the season on loan back at St Etienne, Arsenal have managed to sign two of Europe’s brightest young talents in one summer.