Governors have said they will shut down counties as the stalemate over the division of revenue persists. CoG chairman Wycliffe Oparanya on Thursday announced a total shut down of counties starting mid next month should the stalemate between the Senate and the National Assembly in passing Division of Revenue Bill 2019 persists. He said county governments will not render any services starting September 16 if the two houses fail to agree. “Beginning September 16, if the issue will not have been resolved we will have no option but to shut down all counties. County staff should not expect any salaries. Some have not been paid for two months now,” he stated. He pleaded with the tow houses to come to an agreement for the sake of Kenyans. “All services provided by counties as stipulated under Schedule 4 will not be there. We are still hopeful since we heard that they will be meeting again on 11 September,” he added. The Fourth Schedule talks about distribution of functions between National and the county governments. Functions under counties include agriculture, health, trade development and regulation, pre-primary education, village polytechnics, homecraft centres and childcare facilities, county roads, fire fighting services and disaster management, animal control and control of air and noise pollution among other functions. On Wednesday, a mediation session failed to kick off after senators failed to raise quorum after only two out of the nine members showed up. The aborted meeting was a clear indication that there is no end in sight to the crisis even after the President appealed to the lawmakers to find a solution urgently. Meanwhile, the clamour for a constitutional amendment got a new entrant after governors announced that they will start their own process geared towards changing the Constitution. Oparanya said county chiefs will soon kick-start Ugatuzi Initiative, a parallel process that will run alongside the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) and the Punguza Mizigo Initiative. Oparanya noted that whereas the country has a robust Constitution, which entrenches devolution of services to mwanchi, its implementation has faced a myriad of challenges. “Therefore, in order to safeguard the spirit and letter of devolution, the council intends to initialise its own process known as Ugatuzi Initiative. The council will consult with the devolution family to deliberate on the issue and thereafter launch the initiative soon,” he said. The BBI team is currently writing a report following the conclusion of public participation. It is expected to present recommendations to President Uhuru Kenyatta and former Prime Minister Raila Odinga before October 23. On the other hand, the Punguza Mizigo Bill of Thirdway Alliance Party is currently before some county assemblies for debate. Speaking at a press briefing at CoG headquarters in Nairobi yesterday, Oparanya said governors will propose key constitutional reforms that are paramount in enhancing the unity of the nation. The Governor for Kakamega said details of the amendments will be made public in a weeks time after they consult with the senators and Members of County Assemblies. “We will consult with the devolution family, which is the Senate and MCAs through the County Assemblies Forum before we come up with our proposals,” he explained.