A farmers’ company in Naivasha has accused two government officials of colluding with landgrabbers to deprive it of its parcels. Members of the Ndibithi Farmers Company said they are subjected to arbitrary arrests in violation of the law.  Yesterday, more than 3,000 residents  vented their anger in protest. They are embroiled in a tussle over the ownership of 2,504 acres, under the  Title I.R 1417/L.R 1695, in Maiella location. The row pits them against some individuals and a parastatal. Led by chairman Charles Ng’ethe, the residents claimed Kongoni assistant county commissioner John Opondo and Kongoni police station boss Patrick Arimi have been compromised to harass and drive them out of the land. A police post has been built on the land to the disappointment of residents. They said the police make arrests every time they seek justice to have the parcels reverted to them. “Nobody spent time in police cells before assistant county commissioner Opondo was posted to Kongoni. He came in 2015, and 2016 was the first time our members were arrested since 1973 when we got onto the land,” Ng’ethe, 87, said. He spoke after chairing a three-hour members meeting. But Opondo dismissed the claim, saying he inherited the land problem when he was deployed to the division. He said he is only keen on his mandate of maintaining law and order. Opondo said he has no business colluding with a land-grabbing syndicate if indeed one exists. He said he plays his constitutional role of protecting residents and their property without discrimination. “Investigate me. I don’t have any property in Naivasha,” he said, adding that the orders he is executing were issued by “relevant institutions”. Station police boss Arimi confirmed that he made the arrests and has been leading police operations on the land but was quick to add that he should not be victimised or blamed as he has no choice but to implement “orders from above”. He declined to give details of the operations. He said he is a junior officer. “Kindly seek more information from my bosses,” he told the Star. The Ndibithi Farmers Company has sought the help of the Office of the President. The information was captured in a July 15 letter addressed to Interior CS Fred Matiang’i and copied to Lands CS Farida Karoney, the Inspector General of Police and the DCI chief. It also gave a 21-day notice after which members would hold a peaceful demonstration. “We, residents of Maiella ward of Naivasha constituency, Nakuru county, Ndabibi location, and the bonafide owners of all that piece of land situated to the East of Lake Naivasha, Land Title I.R 1417/L.R, Land Survey Plan 2838, measuring 2504 acres, intend to stage a demonstration following grabbing of our land,” it read. “The grabbing of our land has resulted in the replacement of original title deed, which we had complained of earlier on October 18, 2012, due to questionable entries. Instead of acting on our complaints, the original document was replaced with a fake title deed as proved by the attached two different title deed….” The protesters accused the Agricultural Development Corporation of amalgamating their land with its and altering the original boundaries. Also accused of landgrab are Benjamin Kipkoech Kipkulei ( 63.79 acres), Mwana Mwireri Naivasha and Roroni Farmers Co. Ltd ( 343.86 acres). Agricultural Development Corporation MD Mohamed Bulle said he was aware of the land conflict but rejected claims that the corporation is part of it. Ng’ethe said that despite their complaints, more members are still being arrested and arraigned. Alex Kungu, 47, was arrested on August 19 for allegedly damaging a 2.4km electric fence valued at Sh3.2 million. He was remanded at the Naivasha GK Prison. The charge sheet says he maliciously damaged property on Soyonin Farm between June 18 and July 28 in Gathondia village, Ndabibi area of Kongoni. The company wants the police to stop arresting its members to ensure a return to normalcy. (Edited by F'Orieny)