Is a senior judge of the High Court in Nairobi cutting deals with lawyers at a hotel on Thika Road? The member of the bench has been holding meetings with some lawyers, including those appearing before him on some sensitive matters. The judge's presence at the hotel has sent tongues wagging. Firstly, the judge drives himself in a top-of-the-range vehicle into the hotel after 10pm and proceeds to his reserved room, where his guests are always sighted early in advance. After seeing them for about two hours, the lawyers then exit one by one in a deliberate scheme to send those present off balance. The judge's mission with the lawyers is not clear but raises fundamental questions to the conduct of members of the bench and their level of interaction with advocates. An MP from Homa Bay who this month helped a constituent to secure a government job is now pleading for invitations for school fundraisers. the lawmaker also wants to use the job thing and the invites, if possible, to declare his interest in the 2022 gubernatorial race. The politician, an ODM hawk, has been ducking such community events all along. In 2014, the MP accepted to be a guest of honour of a harambee and confirmed he was on his way to the event but did not show up. In 2017, the legislator had a hard time securing nomination but squeezed through after manipulating the Orange party. For 2022, he hopes to steal a nomination certificate to run for governor. Meanwhile, the MP is said to be a beneficiary of devolved corruption. A senior Jubilee leader from Western Kenya is allegedly broke. The lawmaker has been avoiding invitations for harambees in his constituency after reportedly running out of money. In two instances, the MP refused to grace a fundraiser in aid of churches he had planned since last year. To make matters worse, a tycoon from his hometown, who is said to have financed his 2017 campaigns, has fallen out with him. At stake is a Sh5 million debt that the MP has refused to refund to the tycoon. Corridors of Power is informed the businessman could be moving to court to auction some of the MP's property to recover his money. In the meantime, the MP has moved from his rented house in Karen to an average estate in Eastlands as the economy takes a toll on him. A chief executive officer of a government agency is not shaken with the ongoing war on corruption. The CEO has been demanding the infamous 10 per cent contract value bribe from contractors. To arm-twist detectives off his trail, he has hired his cousin as his secretary and personal assistant. The secretary is nowadays pulling strings at the lucrative agency within the agricultural sector. Curiously, the secretary leaves office as late as 11pm and is known for holding meetings with contractors inside the CEO's office late into the night. A hawk-eyed operative within the building says those who walk into the meetings come with envelopes that appear loaded with content that could interest investigators.