The battle for the national Sevens circuit points intensifies this weekend when the Christie Sevens edition goes down at the RFUEA grounds. The top five teams on the log are separated by 11 points as the series enters the penultimate stage on Ngong Road. KCB, who lead the circuit with 72 points have a date with Northern Suburbs, Menengai Oilers and Daystar Falcons in Pool 'D'. Dennis Mwanja's charges will be seeking to bounce back to contention for the title after being bundled out by Oilers in the Main Cup quarterfinals at the Prinsloo event in Nakuru a fortnight ago. Mwanja said the boys are fired up and raring to go. "We are more than ready to atone for the quarterfinal exit in Nakuru. We are at a crucial stage. We need to keep ahead of Mwamba in this event and the Driftwood Sevens,” said Mwanja. The bankers won Kakamega on July 20 and Dala Sevens on August 10. Mwamba, winners of the Kabeberi and Prinsloo Sevens are in Pool 'A' alongside Strathmore Leos, Nondies and Egerton Wasps. Kulabu have 69 points and will be hoping to go all the way and a stumble for the bankers. Coach Kevin Wambua believes the race will go down to the wire and expects a competitive contest this weekend. "It will be tough. Nondies are a seasoned outfit,  Strathmore have shown they can match the big boys and Wasps have nothing to lose,” said Wambua. Wambua expects to have playmaker Daniel Taabu for the event after missing Prinsloo due to injury. "Taabu is fit and raring to go but Billy Odhiambo is still out due to a hairline fracture on the wrist but I am happy with the performance levels of our team despite the setbacks,” added Wambua. Christie Sevens champions, Homeboyz, who have a glimmer of hope in retaining the overall title are in Pool 'B', where they face off with Ngong Road giants Quins and Impala as well as Ugandan outfit, Pirates. Team manager Simon Odongo said they have not given up of retaining the title."We have not thrown in the towel. We are still in contention if results go our way,” noted Odongo. Mitch Ocholla's Nakuru, who have reached four semifinals on ther circuit battle it out against Kabras, Masinde Muliro University and Blak Blad in pool C The top two teams in each pool qualify for the main quarterfinal and the third and fourth team drop to the Challenge trophy.