Philippe Coutinho has been given an opportunity to revive his career after joining Bundesliga champions Bayern Munich on a season-long loan from Barcelona. The Brazilian made his dream move to the Nou Camp for £145million from Liverpool back in January 2018 but he was not able to showcase the talent that originally got him that switch. For whatever reason, the 27-year-old struggled to shine at the Catalan giants but he now has the chance to recapture the form that the Premier League became used to seeing during his time at Anfield. But where does the former Reds playmaker fit into a side that were already favourites to lift the Bundesliga title before his arrival? As well as maintaining their domestic dominance Bayern will be looking to push for more European glory. The club has won the Champions League on five occasions but they have not reached the final since their 2013 triumph. Coutinho could be the man to reignite their European challenge. This summer Bayern, who are bidding to win their eighth league title in a row, have lost experience in the dressing room following the departures of Mats Hummels, Franck Ribery and Arjen Robben. Wingers Ribery and Robben became club legends during their long tenures at the club and provided the attacking threat for a number of years. Bayern chairman Karl-Heinz Rummenigge revealed on Monday that he received Robben’s blessing to give Coutinho the No 10 shirt. “We all talked to Robben and told him that he didn’t want to give away the No 10 and No 7 [Ribery’s No],” Rummenigge explained in Coutinho’s unveiling. “But we wanted to give the shirt to Coutinho and Robben accepted that. He said that jersey No 10 fits perfectly with Coutinho.” The number handed to the Brazilian is a sign of where he should play this season but also an indication of how much importance they are placing on his shoulders. Coutinho could not replace Andres Iniesta at the Nou Camp but will he be able to come close to filling the void left by Robben in a season? He is likely to play in the No 10 position rather than on the wing and become an influential creative maestro at the Allianz Arena. He is an intelligent player and in that role, he can pick up the ball in space in between the lines on the half turn to create an attack. The Brazilian, who scored 11 goals and supplied five assists in 54 appearances for Barcelona during the 2018-19 season, is most likely to play where Real Madrid loanee James Rodriguez featured last season - just off striker Robert Lewandowski. Coutinho was largely used on the left-hand side of Barcelona’s attack to create a lethal triumvirate alongside Luis Suarez and Lionel Messi. In recent years fans have seen Coutinho come in off the left flank and curl the ball into the top right-hand corner of the net for both club and country. Bayern boss Niko Kovac could also deploy him as a winger but Bayern have Serge Gnabry, Ivan Perisic and Kingsley Coman in their ranks, who are pacey out-and-out wide men looking to impact matches like predecessors Robben and Ribery did. “With his creativity and outstanding skills, Philippe is a player who will immediately strengthen our attack,” Rummenigge said on Monday. While Bayern sporting director Hasan Salihamidzic added: “He’s a world-class player with great ability, who we can deploy in a number of positions in our forward line, so the Bayern squad has gained even more quality.” During his five years on Merseyside, Coutinho was utilised in a midfield role more frequently and pulled the strings from a less advanced position. But Barcelona manager Ernesto Valverde decided that the Brazilian was not a midfielder and subsequently could not replace Iniesta in the midfield trio. Coutinho, who trained with his new team-mates for the first time on Tuesday, plays in the No 10 role for Brazil and that proved successful this summer as Tite’s side won the Copa America. Bayern will be hoping it will be just as fruitful this season.