Gor Mahia midfielder Philemon Otieno vows to return stronger, ahead of his knee surgery set to sideline him between seven and nine months. Otieno suffered a cruciate ligament injury, during their second leg African nations championship 2019 (CHAN) second leg qualifier against Tanzania at the Moi International sports centre Kasarani on August 4, 2019. The Kenyan international who was part of the Kenya team to the 2019 African cup of nations squad in Egypt, is due for France for the process that will see him miss almost the whole Kenyan premier league season. Gor Mahia team doctor Fredrick Otieno says plans are underway to have him to face the knife and he’s expected to be out on a long term. “Football Kenya Federation is working on the logistics of having Otieno head to France, and he’s due anytime,” added Freddy. Harambee stars team Physio Wycleff Omwom says they had recommendations locally to have Otieno undergo surgery, and they shared it with the French orthopedics who operated Kenyan international defender in July. Omwom says they expect full details from France by next week before, giving the go ahead. “Having damaged his ligament reconstruction surgery is needed, and Otieno may take around seven to nine months out depending on the technique used”, said Omwom. “We want the best for Otieno and that’s why we don’t want to hurry with the delicate injury, immediately after getting the full details from France, and comparing with the local doctors next week we will give the go-ahead.” The utility player who can fit in both midfield and defense says he will definitely miss football which is his fulltime job but hopes to come back stronger. Otieno coincidentally switched to right-back, after former teammate Karim Nizigiyimana suffered a long-time knee injury and believes his teammates will equally do a good job in all departments. Otieno 26, also played right-back for Harambee stars during Egypt 2019, AFCON tournament and qualifiers under departed tactician Sebastian Migne. He joined from NSL side Ushuru in 2016 on a three-year deal and is contracted to KO’gallo until December 2019. Otieno brushed off rumors of his imminent departure to greener pastures after AFCON 2019 claiming he is still a green army. “I had a great season winning the KPL title, reached the CAF confederations cup quarter-finals and played in the AFCON, I am still a Gor Mahia player and will only concentrate on my current situation as I pray for fitness again,” said Otieno. Ugandan international midfielder Shafiq Batambuze and new signing Ivory Coast Striker Gislein Yikpe join Otieno in the sidelines, However, the duo is expected back within around two weeks. The 18-time KPL champions, begin their title defense against rivals Tusker FC on Sunday at Kisumu stadium under new coach Steven Polack who replaced departed Hassan Oktay.