Real Madrid are hoping new signing Eden Hazard will be fit to make his competitive first-team debut away at Villarreal on Sunday, according to reports. Hazard, who signed from Chelsea in a staggering £150million deal earlier this summer, missed the first two games of the La Liga campaign with a thigh injury. But according to Spanish publication Marca, the Spanish giants are optimistic he will make his bow this weekend as they look to bounce back from their disappointment against Real Valladolid. And Belgium manager, Roberto Martinez, whose side play San Marino and Scotland next month in Euro 2020 qualifiers, has hinted Hazard could give a boost to Madrid. “My feelings are positive with Eden because he always wants to play,” Martinez told Het Nieuwsblad. “Also, generally, he recovers quickly and well. If he plays at Villarreal we could count on him.” Madrid will be desperate for their new star name to be fully fit as soon as possible following a slightly underwhelming start to the season. After their 3-1 away victory against Celta Vigo in their La Liga opener, they were held to a frustrating 1-1 draw at the Bernabeu against Valladolid after the visitors scored a last-gasp equaliser. Meanwhile, Real are concerned about Vinicius Junior’s progress, with the winger having had to be patient for playing time so far this season. Last season the Brazilian starlet made 18 appearances in La Liga and produced some encouraging overall performances, although he only scored once and provided just two assists. According to Marca, there is a feeling that the 19-year-old is being ‘weighed down’ by expectations, with manager Zinedine Zidane reportedly not yet having full faith in Vinicius. In Real’s first game of the season, a 3-1 victory against Celta Vigo, Vinicius started but was substituted after 69 minutes. Then, as Zidane’s team were held to a 1-1 draw at home to Real Valladolid last weekend, Vinicius was only brought on with 33 minutes remaining. Furthermore, for much of his time on the pitch, Vinicius was stationed on the right flank, rather than in his preferred position on the left. If Neymar was to join Real from Paris Saint-Germain before the closure of the transfer window then it would push Vinicius further down the pecking order. Having struggled to make an impact against Real Valladolid, Vinicius’ confidence will have suffered, but he will hope to be given an opportunity to impress away to Villarreal on Sunday. The prospect still has time to turn his situation around, but there is much work to be done. 