The Nakuru County Census Committee has directed that residents who fail to lock up their dogs during the count be arrested and charged. County Commissioner Erastus Mbui Mwenda warned that failing to keep canines on-leash was wilfully making it impossible for enumerators to do their work. He said letting dogs roam endangers census takers and violates the Statistics Act. Mwenda, who chairs the county census committee, spoke as Nakuru police commander Stephen Matu said that two suspects had been arrested after their dogs attacked a few census officials. One incident was reported in Nakuru West subcounty, the other in Naivasha. Mwenda said those who either unleashed their dogs on census officials or let their dogs to roam freely would be deemed to have contributed to stalling the exercise. “If you own a dog roaming freely in the estates or unleash your hound on enumerators,  you are liable on conviction to a fine of not more than Sh100,000,  imprisonment for not more than one year, or both," Mwenda said. About 2,300 security personnel have been deployed in Nakuru. The census employes 87 ICT supervisors, 821 content supervisors 6,555 enumerators and 6,555 elders. Matu said police were investigating the alleged rape of two female enumerators in Kuresoi North subcounty. He called on enumerators to promptly report crimes to the police. Only one of the alleged rapes has been reported, Matu said "We caution Kenyans against making unsubstantiated allegations that may mar the exercise. Those making alarming and unfounded statements will be arrested and prosecuted,” the county police commander warned. However, the commissioner said the census was progressing smoothly. Mwenda said that in the first two days enumerators had covered 33 per cent of the targeted 440, 170 households. County Statistics Officer Peter Kamau pledged to furnish timely updates. The county commissioner said the committee was probing alleged malpractices by supervisors whom he said risked being suspended and replaced without pay. He cautioned against enumerators organising go-slows via social media or in other was. The county has a pool of trained backup enumerators. (Edited by V. Graham)