Good morning, Embattled Kenya National Union of Teachers secretary general Wilson Sossion has been suspended. The Registrar of Trade Unions E.N Gicheha yesterday effected the changes recommended by Knut's National Executive Council at the union's Nairobi headquarters. Sossion has been replaced as the official union's spokesperson by his deputy Hesbon Otieno, in an acting capacity. Here are the other stories making headlines in the Star this morning. The Director of Criminal Investigations has begun investigating whether Kenya Airways staff conspired to bring down the airline. The DCI wants to establish how Kenya’s national carrier lost Sh100 billion between 2003 and 2014, the nine years when Titus Naikuni was in charge. “We are on this matter. We are working to unravel the looting that went on there,” George Kinoti, the DCI boss, told the Star. Opposition leader Raila Odinga is facing an extraordinary duel in the Kibra by-election, with its outcome having massive political ramifications for him. Raila, who represented the constituency for an uninterrupted 21 years between 1992-2013, enjoys near-fanatical support and with his eyes trained on the 2022 polls — whether he vies or not —ODM cannot afford to lose. Meru Senator Mithika Linturi and Marianne Kitany's divorce proceedings have been making headlines this week as Kitany pulls all the stops to prove she was married to the politician. On Thursday, the court heard that the two were considered married after Kitany chewed a miraa leaf and Linturi drank a glass of mursik (sour milk) given to him by Nandi elders. The two are entangled in a dispute over a Runda property, with the politician claiming he was never married to Kitany and accusing her of trying to steal his property. Details have emerged of how taxpayers are losing billions of shillings in penalties for violated contracts putting top government officials on the spot. The Star has established that Kenya National Highways Authority alone has accrued Sh6.4 billion as penalties for flouting its contractual obligations. Some of the charges are as a result of late payment for certified complete works and where the contract period has been extended – for lack of cash, or terminated by the State. The old Sh1,000 banknotes being withdrawn by the Central Bank of Kenya from circulation will be shredded and burned into ashes in Nairobi’s Kariobangi area. According to insiders, once the old notes that are received at the CBK branches, they are transported in trucks to the headquarters where they are received, verified and stored in a deoxygenated room under the strict supervision of trustees and senior police officers attached to the bank.