The Confederation of Africa Deaf Sports president Mohamed Madoun is happy with Kenya's preparations for the inaugural Africa Deaf Athletics Championships and tipped the country to stage a successful showpiece. Madoun, an Algerian, led a dynamic delegation from the CADS, Kenya Association of Deaf Sports and Deaf Athletics Association of Kenya in inspecting Moi Stadium,  Kasarani which is scheduled to host the championships between September 16 and 22. “Kenya is a strong force in world deaf athletics. The government has given both technical and financial support and we appreciate. From what we have seen during the inspection, I am confident Kenya will stage a successful event. Everything is perfect — the stadium and the other facilities — the people are hospitable too,” said Madoun, through sign language interpreter, Joseph Kimathi. The CADS president averred that not many governments support deaf sports and lauded Kenya for recognising them, independent of Paralympics. “In other countries, deaf sports have been lamped together with parasports and that way, we don't get enough support financially. Kudos to the Kenyan government, we are excited to have our first championships,” added Madoun. Kenya will enter 41 athletes (14 women and 27 men) in the showpiece. Team Kenya are scheduled to go to residential camp between September 2 and 10. The championships have also attracted over 15 countries including Ghana, Algeria, Cameroon, Nigeria, Botswana, hosts Kenya among others. The government has funded the Championships to a tune of Sh47m. However, DAAK president Jones Kirui intimates that the amount is not sufficient enough. He implores corporates to come on board and boost the kitty. He said if the DAAK and Local Organising Committee, led by CEO Miriam Opondo fail to raise the whole the remaining Sh53m of the budget, they will have to cut on some expenditures. This, he added, may affect the number of days Team Kenya will be in camp and the athletes' and officials' allowances.