Deputy President William Ruto has urged Kenyans to cooperate with enumerators taking part in the census. He said the process is crucial as it would inform the development of the country. Speaking during the launch of various development projects in Narok County on Friday, the DP assured those that had not been counted that they would not be left behind. “They should neither be anxious nor panic. Every Kenyan would be factored in the census,” he said. He said accurate and reliable numbers would enable the government to make policy decisions that favour everyone. “We do not want to leave anyone behind as we seek to make our society equitable. It is for this reason that I urge us to cooperate with officers taking part in the census,” Ruto explained. He further assured Kenyans that the data gathered from the census would be protected, and held in confidence by the Government. “We should not be worried about the questions posed to us. Reliable evidence would further our agenda for the benefit of the people.” Narok Governor Samuel Ole Tunai observed that the census had been a success in his country owing to the support the people had extended to the enumerators. He said the numbers would not only help the national government but also county governments in ensuring efficient delivery of services to Kenyans. “It would help us profile individual needs of everyone running from health matters, employment, education to security,” he said. His sentiments were supported by Emurua Dikirr MP Johana Ngeno. The legislator exuded confidence that the process would be a success, thereby help deepen the Government’s Big Four agenda. Ngeno said he was impressed by the commitment of the government in bettering the lives of Kenyans. “When leaders work together, they are able to develop our society,” he added. He pledged to work closely with President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy “for the betterment of the lives of the people”. He said he would support  Ruto when he seeks the presidency in 2022. “He ( Ruto) has the hunger, energy and ambition to transform Kenya. He no doubts fits to succeed President Kenyatta,” Ngeno said.