World and Olympic 3000m champion Conseslus Kipruto has explained his premature pullout in the final race of his speciality at the African Games in Rabat on Monday night. Conseslus said much as his soul wanted to run, the body could not operate as he is still nursing a hip injury he recently sustained in Paris. “I developed a hip injury during warm-up in Paris and as it is, I am yet to recover. Momentarily, I thought I could hack it but when I took to the field, I realised it was not going to be possible,” he noted. He said he has already communicated with his doctor and he has been assured that everything will be fine for the World Championships trials. “I have been told to take a short break and resume training towards the trials and that is what I intend to do,” he noted. Conseslus, however, assured Kenyans that he will not only be ready for the World Championships in Doha, Qatar but he is all set to defend his title. “From here, I am all focused on the global show and nothing will stop me from defending my title,” he assured. He said as much as he has missed basking in the glory of the All Africa Games, World Championships are a priority for him. I know I will heal in time for the nationals trials and Kenyans can confidently count on me for the gold medal in the 3000m steeplechase,” quipped Conseslus. He said he also has plans to break the world 3000m record next year. The current record stands at 7:53.63 by Saif Saeed Shaheed formerly Stephen Cherono. He said this season is almost done and his priority remains the Diamond League series and Doha. With the Olympic Games scheduled for July next year in Tokyo, the Olympic champion said he wants to use the early season to prepare for the record attempt. He said his aim is a sub-7:50. “ I want to be the first man to run under 7:50 and I believe this is the right time,” he added. He thanked Benjamin Kigen for saving Kenya the blushes in a race where two Kenyans had to back out. He also admitted to having told Kigen that he should not care much about him but focus on the glory. “I knew my situation and I was also aware that he may want to focus on me hence decided to have a man-to-man talk with him,” he noted. Kigen gave Kenya the first track and field gold medal after clocking 8:12.39 ahead of Ethiopia’s Getnet Wale (8:14.06) as Moroccan Elbakkali Siufiane completed the podium positions in 8:19.45.