Paulo Dybala risks irreparably damaging relations with Juventus if he rejects a move to Tottenham over his exorbitant wage demands. Spurs have reached a deal with Juventus for a transfer in the region of £69million (€75m) but Dybala, whose prospective move to Manchester United also broke down over financial demands, wants £300,000 per week, which would eclipse current top earner Harry Kane’s £200,000-a-week deal. According to sources in Dybala’s entourage, the Argentine forward is keen on Tottenham and is attracted both by playing for his compatriot Mauricio Pochettino and living in London. Dybala’s partner, Oriana Sabatini, is understood to have advised Dybala that she would also like to live in London. But the transfer still depends on Tottenham increasing their contract offer, and Dybala’s willingness to accept a lower wage. Should Dybala hold firm and say no to Spurs, so soon after he rejected United, Juventus would be furious. His transfer fee is needed to fund a move for United striker Romelu Lukaku, and the Italian giants would be faced with both missing out on their top target and being left with a player they clearly no longer value. Dybala faces being frozen out at Juve should he put off a second club in as many days. Tottenham could yet strike a deal with Dybala. His agents are in London trying to agree on terms, and want to capitalise on the big money available in the Premier League. Spurs’ opening offer is understood to be of £9m per year – over £170,000 per week, and significantly shy of Kane’s contract. There are signs that Dybala’s demands of £300,000 per week could be softened, but Tottenham will have to put at least £10m per year - £200,000 per week - on the table for him to even consider joining. Other major sticking points in the deal with United were a £15m cut for his agent and complications over image rights. Dybala will also have to compromise on his agent’s fee to strike a deal. Dybala suffered from the arrival of Cristiano Ronaldo at Juventus, scoring just 10 goals last season, and Juve made clear their ambitions to move him on. Following recent showdown talks with new manager Maurizio Sarri and club chiefs, Dybala was understood to have shown a willingness to remain in Italy. After the latest developments of an accepted Spurs bid, Dybala and his team must now consider whether to agree to the transfer as the window enters its final few days. Earlier in the summer Spurs broke their transfer record with the £65m signing of Tanguy Ndombele, though Pochettino later appeared frustrated at a lack of further signings. The Argentine went on to tell reporters he should be referred to as just a coach and not a manager, given his lack of input on club transfers. 