Jubilee has clarified that only National Elections Board chairman Andrew Musangi will issue statements on nominations for the Kibra by-election. The decision appears to be aimed at addressing widely reported rifts within the party, brought about by statements issued from different quarters on the November 7 Kibra poll. Secretary general Raphael Tuju said on Wednesday even his office has no role under the party constitution to deal with nomination issues, other than communicating decisions of the NEB chairperson. "NEB chairman Andrew Musangi is the only one authorised to be quoted by the media on matters related to the nomination process. He has powers to delegate authority,” Tuju said in a statement. He explained that the director of elections, Peter Kihara, will provide secretarial services and will not ordinarily address the press unless authorised by the Musangi. Tuju said that director of communications Albert Memusi can and should only be contacted to authenticate communication from party secretariat following a surge in fake news. There were new reports of new rifts in Jubilee after a letter purported to be from the party was sent to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission bearing the names of five supposed aspirants seeking the nomination. Tuju denied writing the letter and said he had only issued a press statement on Monday indicating that the party would field a candidate in the Kibra by-election. The IEBC had written to the party for authentication of the letter that it received on the very day that Tuju announced Jubilee’s decision to participate in the by-election. Some media houses reported that the letter exposed the battle for control of the party. On the list sent to the IEBC was former football star McDonald Mariga, Morris Kinyanjui, Mikinyingi Trenk, Said Ibrahim and Doreen Wasike. On Wednesday, Tuju assured members and aspirants of the party’s commitment to adhere to its constitution in identifying the right candidate for the by-election and all future elections. The nomination methodology used in this instance is one of the three authorised by the Jubilee Party constitution, he said. Tuju announced that all interested aspirants are required to apply, as prescribed by the NEB, by close of business on Friday, August 30. “The NEB will scrutinize all applications and invite all those who were compliant for interviews between August 31 and September 2. We encourage all interested aspirants to obtain applications from the office of the party directorate of elections,” the secretary general said. (Edited by V. Graham)