Wajir county has embarked on a one-month digitisation of birth and death records numbering 174,000. Until now, data for registration of births and deaths has been kept manually, lead to delayed services to residents as searches take too long. Manual records also led to corruption. Residents in the vast county with eight subcounties are forced to travel for hundreds of kilometers to either Habaswein or Wajir, the only two towns with  a registrar of persons. The registration staff are overwhelmed as a result. Speaking after launching exercise, county commissioner Lyford Kibaara said once digitisation is done, it will be easier to retrieve records. Managing the large number of manual files was a big challenge. “This digitisation exercise is a very big milestone for the department. We want to have all the documents on a digital platform. Implementation of the same will see improved service delivery to the residents,” he said. Kibaara urged residents to work closely with the officers for their own good. County civil registrar Onesmus Mwathi said having the documents on digital platform will greatly help easy management and service delivery. “We have been having a backlog because our two officers are overstretched. The two registrars cover eight subcounties between them, which are  far apart in terms of distance. This can be overwhelming,” he said. A birth  certificate has become a crucial document in the country that is required  in almost all facilities. School going children and those who want to sit for national exams must produce it. Those looking for ID cards also need to have it. Recently, the county undertook 100 days  rapid response initiative to clear a backlog of 12,441 forms. The government is currently recruiting more clerks who were recently approved by the Public Service Commission. They will be posted to the registrars to sort out the documents . Hassan Abdi, a local elder, urged the PSC to move with speed and post clerks in all the eight subcounties to serve the increasing numbers. “We have seen brokers and conmen taking advantage of desperate parents claiming that they were working at the civil registration office. Unfortunately, they are doing this with the help of some rogue clerks. I believe the digitisation will end this,” he said.