A rights group has urged DPP Noordin Haji to ensure all those mentioned in corruption scandals are arrested without favour. Haki na Ukweli, an NGO, on Thursday said many people who have been implicated in various mega corruption scandals continue to hold office and have never been arrested. Speaking in Nairobi, Moses Kamau, a Haki na Ukweli official, said even though arrests are made, no case has ever been concluded nor any suspect brought to book. “It is in our knowledge that despite several prominent people holding public offices being arraigned in court over mismanagement of public resources, they are being left off with peanuts,” Kamau said. Kamau said bail and bond policies have failed to address the issue of corruption which has become a cancer in the country. Close to 1,000 individuals have been charged in court over corruption since President Uhuru Kenyatta took over power in 2013. “Everyone is bitter with this government, we want those implicated in corruption to be banned for life from holding any office,” Kamau said. The lobby says despite writing to the Judiciary, Parliament and EACC, they are yet to receive any communication in response to their demands. “If they (Judiciary, Parliament and EACC) don’t take us seriously, our next action will be going to sleep at Statehouse or at the Parliament buildings until something is done,” Maurice Masika said. Kenya’s competitiveness is held back by high corruption levels that penetrate every sector of the economy. Adequate enforcement of Kenya’s anti-corruption framework is an issue as a result of weak and corrupt public institutions. Early this week, President Uhuru Kenyatta put Kenya Ports Authority workers on the spot over corruption. He warned them of imminent arrests and prosecution over the Sh40 billion Kipevu oil Terminal scandal. Speaking when he flagged off Kenya’s first oil shipment on Monday, Uhuru said authorities are keenly monitoring activities at East Africa’s largest port in Mombasa, saying he is even aware of a planned go-slow, meant to sabotage the government. “Ni noma, hizo simu zilizimwa (Things are thick. Those phones were switched off),” he warned.