Amani National Congress party candidate in the forthcoming by-elections for Kibra constituency has said he has numerous plans to change the face of the entire area. Eliud Owalo said  there has been a problem with the approaches being deployed to resolve problems facing Kibra. "Kibra is in part, a victim of doing things the same way for 53 years yet expecting different results. My well-considered opinion is that it is now time for a total paradigm shift," Owalo said. Owalo added that Kibra houses the most hardworking construction workers who build and maintain our roads, houses, bridges and railways in the scorching heat or biting cold every single day. Owalo said Kibra residents have been patient for long waiting for national wealth to trickle down to them up to date. He has said the situation will change the moment he clinches the seat in the by-elections slotted for November 7. " As a candidate for MP for Kibra I have an elaborate plan to shift this paradigm and change from the unsuccessful model of trickle-down economics to trickle-up economics whereby among other measures, I shall seek initiatives to empower the Kibra as is required for them to be fully functioning citizens in our society living happily in dignity and sharing in our prosperity," Owalo added. He said ANC has the most elaborate and appealing pro-poor policies which made him to use it as a vehicle for the election. He said the upcoming by-elections should  be based on ideas. Owalo has vowed to provide effective and servant leadership that facilitates the protection of civic rights. " I will advocate for and protect the basic and fundamental political, economic and social rights of the people of Kibra” He has also promised to boost education sector in the area as well as promoting TVET institutions. “I will augment the CDF Bursary efforts by facilitating the education of needy but bright and capable dependents within the Kibra Community. I will promote TVET programmes to harness the unexploited potential of the Kibra Youth”. He has added that he will improve the surroundings of Kibra if elected as MP. “I will facilitate a framework that realizes and maintains a clean and habitable environment to enable the people of Kibra live in an environmentally-friendly settlement free of garbage and diseases” Owalo was unveiled as ANC party flag bearer in the forthcoming by-elections on Wednesday by party leader Musalia Mudavadi. Owalo was former ODM leader Raila Odinga's aide and was also in NASA's secretariat in the run-up to the 2017 election. Owalo resigned from ODM on August 23, through a letter to ODM Secretary General Edwin Sifuna and the Registrar of Political Parties.