Former Chief of Staff in the Deputy President office Marianne Kitany has told the court that she was handed a bunch of miraa that looked like as a sign of manhood. In her third day of testimony in her divorce case with Meru Senator Mithika Linuri, Kaitany played video and photo clips to prove they were married. In a flash disk, Kitany provided the court with a video of photos confirming the traditional wedding to Linturi. It was in the first photo that showed her smiling holding a bunch of miraa. According to Kitany during their traditional marriage, the bunch handed to her was tied and to her, it looked like manhood. The second photo showed Linturi and Kitany and a few her uncles and she told the court that they were describing to her how the Miraa will be a symbol of the marriage. In the photo, Linturi was wearing a blue striped T-shirt and handed Kitany the miraa while wearing a perky smile. The next photo showed Kitany chewing a leaf of miraa. The next photo showed Kitany feeding Linturi a piece of cake on her birthday and she informed the court that he composed a poem for her. The video of the poem was played in court with Linturi saying 'happy birthday my love at the end. Another picture shows Kitany at Linturi brother funeral and another shows her being introduced to a crowd during a campaign. Another video shows them in jubilee attire with Meru women celebrating Linturi's win the 2017 elections. Kitany also showed the court their house in Runda adding that she went to Egypt and Dubai to look for house materials and furnishings. The court was told that each of the six kids had their own room designed to their specification. Kitany lawyer Danstan Omari had earlier told the court that the media was writing untruths and said journalists should capture what was mentioned in court. He said some media houses went ahead mentioning the name of the Cabinet Secretary who Kitany never mentioned. The lawyer said some media houses reported that Kitany played a video before the court yet she did not. The lawyer urged the court to protect the integrity of the proceedings. On his part Linturi through his lawyer, Muthomi said it was Kitany who chose to hear the matter in public and not the court. Linturi is yet to decide if his testimony will be in camera or not. Muthomi wants to cross-examine Kitany in public because her evidence was also in public. Kitany said her marriage was conducted in public before many people and the same people should know how it is being dissolved.