Gareth Southgate is not one to bring out the hairdryer, but he delivered a stern message at Wembley on Thursday. The England manager cast his mind back to the Under 21s’ European Championship horror campaign earlier this summer — in particular the 4-2 defeat by Romania that all but sealed their exit from a tournament that had started only five days earlier. Some of England’s players emerged after the game to suggest brazenly that they were still among the best teams in the finals. Southgate simply wasn’t buying it. “There were good moments and some not so good moments, but that’s the development in football,” Southgate said. “You’ve got to go through some of those setback periods. For me, the biggest reminder, in the seniors, was that we must always have humility.” “We play a country like Romania, I don’t know if we thought we were better, but they had some really good players. I thought they were a good team, they had a stadium full of support. I didn’t like the fact that our boys came off and thought they were still the best team in the tournament.” “That can’t be the case. But that’s a little bit down to their age. They’ve got to recognise it and learn from it. In fairness, I’ve had 30 years in football and those boys have had three, so they’re not going to know all of those things. They were a bit misguided if that was their thought process.” It’s a point Southgate appears keen to impress on his players. The national team boss has one of the most exciting generations of footballers in Europe to choose from. It is not often we can be so positive about the English game. Indeed, call-ups on Thursday for James Maddison, Mason Mount, Aaron Wan-Bissaka — all part of that Under 21 squad — and Tyrone Mings are a case in point. But it takes more than talent. Egos need to be left at the door. Keep your head down and graft. At least, that’s what Southgate will tell his players when they report for training at St George’s Park on Sunday. With Euro 2020 qualifiers against Bulgaria and Kosovo on the horizon, you imagine there are a few in the squad who believe that’s six points in the bag. They are probably right, of course. Southgate, however, will not stand for such arrogance. “We play Kosovo in the second game here and they’re a good team. They’ve got some really good players and the pride of a new nation,” he said. “We can’t underestimate that sort of game. They’re unbeaten in 12 to 15 matches, so we would be naive to go into that thinking it will be easy. We breed young, confident players now who have a lot of belief in their technical ability. But what makes a top player? Technical excellence? “Yes, the ability to take on and carry out tactical discipline, with and without the ball. And mental toughness — not just mental confidence, but a real mental toughness. And then the physical attributes: to be able to live with the game at the speed it’s played now and thrive at those high athletic levels. So, there’s a lot that has to come together for all of these guys.” None of which is to say Southgate doesn’t want his players to be bold. Of course he does. You only need to look at the England manager’s courage in selecting another squad full of youth and relative inexperience. Yet Southgate does not doubt himself for a second. He is secure in his belief that it is the right decision to omit 48-cap defender Kyle Walker from his squad. Southgate said it is important to understand the rationale for dropping a player. “It’s especially important that the player understands why you’re doing that — which Kyle does,” said the England manager. “Over a long period, we’ve been bold in some of those decisions and we’ve got a lot of them right and we would back ourselves. We watch enough of the games and do our due diligence. We know where the team need to head.” And if the youngsters coming into the squad or those knocking on the door were in any doubt about how to get there, they aren’t now.