As they prepare for their top-flight debut Kisumu All-Stars coach Henry Omino is optimistic that his team will have a memorable  game against Ulinzi Stars in the first of a Kenyan Premier League double-header at Moi Stadium, Kisumu this afternoon. In the second game, champions Gor Mahia host Tusker at 4pm. Omino said he expects an explosive match against the experienced military side. “We shall give our fans and sponsors what the win they desire,” said Omino. “We are underdogs but we want to utilize our home ground advantage to beat Ulinzi. I know the boys will suffer from stage fright but we don’t want to let our sponsors down,” he conceded. The veteran coach added that All-Stars had a good pre-season for the last two months, stating that he was satisfied with the preparations they had had. Omino bolstered the team by signing 13 players with Wesley Kemboi (Western Stima) and Jeckonia Ogendo (Sony Sugar), key among them. “Some of them are raw talents while some have KPL experience. I have worked with them and by December, clubs will be lining up for their signatures,” noted Omino Mathare United begin their campaign with a match in Ruaraka against Bandari while Wazito take on Nzoia United in Machakos. Sony Sugar host KCB in Awendo. Tomorrow, Kakamega Homeboyz will be up against AFC Leopards at Bukhungu. Homeboyz brought in 11 new players to reinforce the side as they aim to challenge for the title. Club chairman Cleophas Shimanyula announced completion of new acquisitions after a very successful trial and pre-season period. “We have completed signing of our new acquisitions in the spirit of investing in the youth and balancing with experienced players. We aim at blending a formidable team that will be ready to challenge any side in the league,” said Shimanyula. “We have set up targets and we believe what we have acquired from the market is perfect to stimulate our ambition of winning the league this season though it will require us to work very hard,” he added. Among those joining Nicholas Muyoti’s side are defenders Charles Okiya and Vincent Mahaga both from Chemelil, Andrew Waiswa from Sony, midfielders Chris Masinza, Steven Wakhanya from Vihiga United together with Steven Etiyang, Dennis Nandwa who both left Nzoia FC. Strikers Ronald Omino from Sony will be joined by schoolboys Lawrence Otieno of Lugusi, Emmanuel Emuhe from Ebwali and Mwinyi Shami formerly with KCB.