Shock awaits the Kenya National Union of Teachers after it emerged the Teachers Service Commission will withhold this month’s teachers’ fees to the giant union. This sets the stage for further tension that threatens to break the union. The Star has established that the net salaries of Knut members will include the money that would otherwise be sent to the union. It will be the second month in a row that the TSC fails to remit the monthly Sh138 million from teachers, who contribute two per cent of their salaries to support their welfare through the labour union. Knut collects about Sh1.6 billion per year. The amount could reduce significantly with the revelation of a massive walkout from the union, with more members said to be on their way out. The union dues are its lifeline and main source of funds. The law requires the TSC to remit the deductions within 10 days. The decision by the commission comes despite a court ruling that ordered it to deduct and remit union dues for July and August. The developments, therefore, threaten to cripple Knut operations, setting the stage for more conflict. Already, Knut has been mired in internal wrangles that have led to two factions, which are allegedly ethnic-based. One wing is allied to secretary-general Wilson Sossion, while the other is against his continued stay in office. Sossion says he will not be pushed out of office. “I cannot be removed through roadside declarations. I’m legally elected and those who want me out should use the proper channel,” he said yesterday. Last week, a group of members who sit in the National Executive Council of the union called for a special meeting to decide Sossion’s future. They accused the secretary-general of losing grip of the union. But in an interesting turn of events, Sossion ordered the closure of the head office where the meeting was to take place. It will remain shut from today until Tuesday next week. In a memo, Sossion says the move is to give the staff ample time to prepare for school opening. The third term begins on Monday next week. Yesterday, a labour court issued orders stopping Knut’s NEC from convening the meeting after it emerged that some members were adamant to conduct it, despite Sossion’s decision. “Pending the hearing of the application, the meeting convened by Sossion scheduled to be held today in the NEC Boardroom — Knut head office — starting 10am stands postponed as conveyed in Sossion’s letter dated August 26, 2019,” it read. Ethnic divide Seeking the order, Sossion told Employment and Labour Relations Judge Byrum Ongaya that he was likely to suffer irreparable harm if the meeting was to proceed. Sossion said the council members have no power under Knut constitution to convene or proceed with a national executive council meeting that has been postponed. The case will be heard on September 3. Meanwhile, the infighting in Knut is said to have ethnic undertones. Sossion lacks the support of two major regions, Central and Nyanza, which have been pushing for his exit. There are claims Central feels left out in the leadership after failing to secure the position of second vice-chairperson in the last polls. “Central Kenya feels shortchanged in the union’s leadership. They feel to be out in the cold in key decisions made by the union’s top leadership and now want Sossion out,” a source familiar with the development said. However, Sossion still enjoys majority support, with his Rift Valley backyard and Western regions behind him. (Edited by F'Orieny)