Four officials have resigned following board wrangles that have hit the prestigious Nairobi club. Those who resigned three months to the office stated that there was 'a coup against members' after a section of board officials took over the executive role to manage the club. The board is supposed to only provide the advisory role to the club staff. Allen Kimani, Minnie Mbue, Joseph Kering and Azu Ogola who resigned also claimed disregard of HR and procurement processes as well as other international management practices. “The conflict of interest, whether perceived or real, should always be guarded against as a first principle. Besides, the board ends up losing focus on strategic and policy issues that are meant to guarantee long term sustainability of the club,” Kimani said. The current board now consists of Luke Musau, Francis Maina (CEO Minet Insurance), Edwin Rono, Steve Biko (a lawyer) and Yvonne Tharao-of Madison insurance. Insiders add that the current president -Charles Wambugu-is being sidelined in policymaking at the club, which hosts president Uhuru Kenyatta and his Deputy William Ruto among others as honourary members of the club. The letters seen by Star showed that the move has also seen the remaining board officials sent the chief account, procurement officer, food and Beverages Controller as well as the assistant accountant on compulsory leave. Others on suspension are assistant procurement, assistant housekeeper and account Payable. The board members have also reinstated 5 employees who were earlier sacked for theft and gross misconduct as club piles tens of millions of loans. “One committee member has consistently used dismissive, condescending and inappropriate language in addressing colleagues particularly myself, Azu Agola and Allen Kimani,” Kering' said in his resignation letter on 1 August 2019. “Those suspended provided crucial information to the KPMG forensic audit report that established ghost projects and a Sh 100 million loan,” an insider told the Star “Among the projects identified was a company that received sh 5.2 million to dig a borehole that was never there.”