Jubilee and ODM parties are treading cautiously in their nominations for Kibra, an indication of political fireworks ahead of the November 7 by-election. ODM on Wednesday called off the nominations planned for August 31 even as Jubilee disowned a leaked candidates list and ordered fresh applications by the end of business on Friday. The Star has established that the two political outfits are playing safe not to expose their flagbearers too early given the high stakes involved in the Kibra parliamentary race. The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission on Thursday said the August 26 deadline for parties to submit names of candidates had not been extended, further swirling confusion. ODM had by Monday submitted 11 contestants who will battle it out for the party's ticket. Jubilee withdrew its earlier list under unclear circumstances. “There is no extension, However, nothing stops a party from using other modes of identifying a candidate,” IEBC communications manager Tabitha Mutemi said. Both Jubilee and ODM plan to hold nominations too close to the deadline in what is seen as a strategy to bar losing candidates from running as independents. The Wafula Chebukati-chaired body will receive nomination certificates from cleared candidates on September 9- 10. Raila Odinga's ODM party, which is fighting to retain the seat, postponed its nominations earlier set for Saturday to September 7. Although the party cited unavailability of security personnel due to the ongoing census, it has emerged that the party could have deliberately made the decision to bar losers from running as independent candidates. The law is flexible on party hopping during by-elections but losers are only allowed to run as independent candidates. On Thursday, ODM National Elections Board chairperson Judy Pareno told the Star the party pushed the nominations to guarantee enough time for police to make security arrangements. “We want to assure our supporters and aspirants as well that we will make the nomination process as credible as possible,” she said. Edited by R.Wamochie