Homa Bay Governor Cyprian Awiti returned to the county on Thursday and warned lazy cabinet members against preventing him from leaving a good legacy. Awiti had been away since June 27, when he fell sick after distributing bursary cheques worth Sh100 million at Orero Boys Secondary school in Rangwe. The governor said some members of his cabinet have been sleeping on the job and do not discharge their duties effectively when he is away. The county boss said that he knows the department officials who do not take their duties seriously when he is absent. Awiti told the officials to quit if they don't want to discharge their mandate to the people. “There’s no room for lazy executive members. I want every CEC to focus on our common agenda of leaving a good legacy for Homa Bay residents,” Awiti said. Awiti spoke on Thursday in his office during the swearing-in ceremony of seven members of the newly created Homa Bay county municipality board. The board members appointed include Peter Ongoro, William Oracha, Dorcas Matunga, Evaline Ochele, Maurice Odhoch, Peter Otieno and Caren Odiyo. Awiti announced Samuel Akoko from his Karachuonyo constituency backyard as the executive nominee for roads. The governor directed the CEC members to change their methods of service delivery from office to fieldwork. Cabinet members present included Nicholas K’Oriko (finance), Isaiah Ogwe (county secretary), Richard Muga (health), Roselyn Odhiambo (lands), David Okeyo (trade) and Fredrick Odero (sports). Four executive members were absent. “Time has come for every CEC member to ensure the impact of their department is felt on the ground,” Awiti said. The county chief also urged residents to ensure all of them are enumerated in the ongoing census. “Let every resident who has not been enumerated raise an alarm so that they can acquire the service before the exercise ends,” he added. Deputy governor Hamilton Orata urged the municipal board members to mobilise resources to develop towns in the county. “The board members should liaise with development partners who can improve our towns. The devolved funds alone are inadequate,” Orata said. (edited by O. Owino)