Want-away Manchester United star Paul Pogba joined his teammates for a team bonding dinner after his dream move to Real Madrid was scuppered following deadline day. The French midfielder has had his sights firmly set on a switch to Spain since the start of the summer transfer window. However, it’s believed that United are unlikely to let their star man leave after failing to secure any of their midfield targets. Madrid boss Zinedine Zidane was desperate to secure the signing of the World Cup winner, but it now appears Pogba is set to battle it out for another campaign at Old Trafford. It is believed that Real’s French boss feels let down by club president Florentino Perez, following his wish to rebuild the ailing Spanish side around the signings of Eden Hazard and Pogba. But after James Rodriguez and Gareth Bale were unable to be shifted from the club’s hefty roster, the odds of the mercurial midfielder now departing Old Trafford are increasingly slim. United kick off their new Premier League season on Sunday against Chelsea, and manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer is desperate to instil a positive team atmosphere ahead of the showdown. £150million rated Pogba, sporting a typically garish outfit, joined the rest of his teammates for the dinner - including new defender Harry Maguire. The England international embarked on his first activity with his new side following the completion of his world record transfer to United, believed to be worth £80million. Fellow new signings Aaron Wan-Bissaka and Daniel James were also present for the deadline day excursion, as United shifted their focus away from further incomings to prepare for their league opener. Romelu Lukaku finally completed his protracted move to Italian side Inter Milan on Thursday, placing the onus firmly on Mancunian Marcus Rashford to deliver the damage for the Red Devils this season.  The 21-year-old striker looked in positive spirits as he headed to the city centre-based restaurant. United host Chelsea on Sunday as Premier League action returns following the summer break, with Pogba likely to play a crucial role in deciding the result against Frank Lampard’s men.