African Countries have pitched for Public Private Partnerships as TICAD got underway in Yokohama, Japan. The conference is being attended by 30 African heads of state and among them will be  President Uhuru  Kenyatta. During the opening ceremony on Wednesday, Moussa Faki the African Union Commission Chairperson said that; "African states have advanced the Public Private Partnership model of development which is the most ideal approach of achieving sustainable development on the continent." He added that the aspiration was demonstrated by the strong private sector representation and participation in the TICAD 6 conference that was held in Nairobi 2016. Faki said that it was urgent to promote those strategies and Africa to take advantage of the situation. Also to take into  account the SMEs of Africa and to make sure that we give great attention in order to improve the business climate within its members state. Chief Executive Officer of the International Finance Corporation Phillippe Le   Houérou spoke on behalf of World Bank. He said that future of African economies will largely be shaped by the performance of the continent's private sector. United Nations Secretary General Antonio Guterres urged TICAD member states to tap more into the growing the youth population in Africa by enhancing development through innovative solutions. He added by saying that technology and innovation were central to unleashing Africa’s vast potential and realizing the UN's shared vision of leaving no one behind. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe announced a new initiative by the Japanese Government that seeks to strengthen judicial and law enforcement systems of African nations. Abe further announced a pledge by his government to support the roll out of Universal Health Care programmes in Africa saying the initiative will benefit over three million recipients on the continent. He also said that  Japan had invested over 20 billion dollars in Africa in the last 3 years. Uhuru was accompanied by Foreign CS  Monica Juma , Ukur Yatani (Treasury), Sicily Kariuki (Gender), George Magoha (Education) and James Macharia (Transport).