Residents of disputed areas of Tigania East and Tharaka North subcounties have accused chiefs of interfering with the census. Tigania East is in Meru county while Tharaka is in Tharaka Nithi. Tigania residents say chiefs from Tharaka North are threatening them to be counted in the chiefs' areas of jurisdiction, which are in Tharaka Nithi. Kiembene residents want two chiefs arrested for harassment, incitement and creating chaos. They said a chief from Tharaka Nithi is forcing them to be counted as Tharaka residents whereas their home is in Tigania, Meru. They said they would not allow the administrator to coerce them to be enumerated as residents of Tharaka Nithi. Tigania Central deputy county commissioner Obed Mose told the Star the chiefs were desperate for numbers. He said he investigated the matter with his Tharaka counterpart Patrick Chege and found out residents did not want to be counted by enumerators from Tharaka. "I received the complaints. We agreed enumerators from both sides should walk together so that if a resident does not want to be counted as a Tharaka resident, they are enumerated as Tigania," he said. John Mutie from Tigania East said the disputed Kiembene police post in Tigania East was opened by CS Peter Munya when he was the area MP. He accused Tharaka leaders of taking advantage and bringing in their police officers. “Why can’t MP Gichunge Kabeabea lobby for us to have police officers from Tigania posted at Kiembene? We can’t live like a woman married to two husbands," he said. The residents want the government to intervene and restrain the chiefs or there will be chaos. “Did Kiraitu sell our rights of inheritance and ownership to Tharaka county? How can Tharaka chiefs come here to take over our land and administrative boundaries? The same chiefs are inciting people to burn vehicles,” a woman who sought anonymity said. Resident Patrick Kirinya said security must be beefed up. “We can’t be intimidated. We will not allow enumerators from Tharaka in our houses. The chief should be arrested so that we are assured of safety. We want the DCIO to investigate the chief."