The first question at birth is whether the baby is male or female. But that is now changing. This month, Kenya will take one more step in recognising a third sex. For the first time, intersex persons will be accorded a separate identity in the 2019 Population and Housing Census to be conducted August 24-30. It is a big win for human rights defenders who have waged a long campaign for formal recognition and an end to stigma and discrimination. Intersex, previously known as hermaphrodite, is a biological condition where one is born both male and female. A government task force set up in 2017 defines intersex as: “A person who is conceived and born with a biological sex characteristic that cannot be exclusively categorised in the common binary of female or male due to their inherent and mixed anatomical, hormonal, gonadal (ovaries and testes) or chromosomal (X and Y) patterns which could be apparent prior to, at birth, in childhood, puberty or adulthood.” Contrary to common perceptions, intersex goes beyond having male and female sexual organs. The person’s biological makeup is both male and female. It is estimated that between 0.05 to 1.7 per cent of babies worldwide are born intersex. Intersex persons have historically suffered discrimination and stigma attached to their ambiguous sexuality. They are considered as a curse in many communities. Some have been forced to undergo “corrective” surgery. The High Court in 2010 and 2014 upheld the rights of intersex persons to non-discrimination and affirmed their right to protection from torture, cruel, inhumane and degrading treatment, citing Article 27 (4) of the Constitution. The court called for comprehensive data on intersex persons in Kenya to inform relevant reforms to address problems faced by intersex persons as a marginalised group. Intersex persons enjoy protection under the Persons Deprived of Liberty Act 2014, which contains specific provisions for upholding the human rights of inmates. The National Police Service Standing Orders provide that intersex persons in detention have the right to choose the sex of the officer to conduct any body searches and that they shall be held separately from male and female inmates. Parliament in 2017 recommended the introduction of an Intersex (I) marker, public awareness, generation of statistics, access to healthcare and redress for human rights violations. Numerous international and regional treaties Kenya has signed protect persons against discrimination on any grounds including sex. The treaties have specific provisions for the protection of the dignity of intersex persons. The 2017 government task force established that: The task force recommended: As intersex persons are set to be recognised as a distinct group in this year’s census, public awareness campaigns are needed to enable parents, communities and institutions end stigma and discrimination attached to ambiguous sex identity.