Export Processing Zone Authority officials on Wednesday escaped arrest as Nema intensified the crackdown on polluters. In a dramatic move, Moses Kipkabus, one of the managers at EPZA took off in an unmarked double cabin car leaving Nema officials stranded at the authority's compound in Kitengela. The Nema board had just completed inspection of the EPZA's dumpsite and was headed to its sewer line area where they discharge their wastewater. Kipkabus resisted accompanying the visiting environmental officials before taking off. Another EPZA official identified as Peter Wainaina hoodwinked the Nema team, led them to Mombasa Road and sped off in an official car. At that point, the Nema team had no alternative but to drive to another facility within the same area. Nema said an impromptu inspection exposed garments maker EPZA as one of the biggest polluters of Nairobi River. Nema board chair John Konchella led other board members in the purge. “We will not relent until order is restored,” Konchella warned. But a furious EPZA chairman Paul Gicheru hit out at Nema, terming their move outrageous. He said the crackdown on firms employing thousands of Kenyans was arbitrary  and had the potential of bringing down the economy and driving away investors. “Why can’t Nema engage constructively? What do they want to achieve after the arrests?” Gicheru who has been spearheading reforms at the authority protested. He said some of the firms polluting the rivers are not EPZA firms and have illegally connected to their sewer line. Manufacturing is part of president Uhuru Kenyatta’s legacy projects under the Big Four agenda Konchella gave EPZA two months to close their open dumpsite. “The time to talk about restoration orders is over," he said. He said millions Kenyans drawing water from Athi River were suffering and his authority “cannot manage symptoms forever”. Alpharama Limited, a tannery in the area, is also suspected to be discharging their wastewater in violation of Nema regulations. However, Konchella lauded Alpharama for making huge investment in their treating plant. He urged other companies to follow suit.