The new NCCK general secretary who is expected to assume office on October 1, will have a difficult time reconciling members. Reverend Chris Kinyanjui will also be tasked to address issues that have brought misunderstanding within the National Council of Churches of Kenya. Incumbent secretary general Peter Karanja hosted the executive committee. Some had raised issue with the appointment of Kinyanjui. However, Karanja said that the issue of his appointment was discussed, and they resolved to confirm his appointment. Karanja said the due process in appointment of Kinyanjui was followed, when he  was appointed on June 18. He spoke at Jumuiya Conference and Country Home in Limuru constituency, where the executive committee held an eight-hour closed meeting. Journalists were locked outside the gate. After the meeting ended, some members of the executive committee who had petitioned Kinyanjui's appointment left the precincts even before the media briefing. Those who the media tried to speak to said they they were not satisfied with the direction the majority took. "I do not have much to say but we have lost out petition. Let us not discuss this matter much" a member who spoke to the journalists at the gate in his car said while leaving. However, Karanja said that the executive discussed all items raised and in the process members recognised that there were some gaps in the governance instruments and processes. He told journalists that the gaps will be addressed at an appropriate time, so that the council streamline it's operations. Karanja affirmed that they had agreed to embrace on a culture of listening and understanding each other. "We conclude by calling to mind the importance of embracing a culture of listening. Listening to one another is the foundation of understanding and reconciliation in the society," the general secretary said. He was accompanied by national executive committee members such as ACK leader Jackson ole Sapit, PCEA moderator Julius Mwamba who signed a statement for the chairman Archbishop Timothy Ndambuki who was absent with an apology. Sapit supported Karanja by asking members to back the NCCK affairs. 