2009 Kenyan Premier League champions Sofapaka got their quest to end their decade-long title drought off to a sour start as they succumbed to a 2-1 loss to Posta Rangers as the 2019/20 Kenyan Premier League campaign got underway yesterday. Sofapaka, who returned to the Narok Stadium facility after a season-long hiatus, surrendered their one-goal first half lead to fall to Rangers, who staged a spirited second half fight-back to secure the three points in a match which marked the return of coach Sammy ‘Pamzo’ Omollo on their technical bench. Second half goals by Rangers’ winger Gershon Likono and new signing Eliud Lokuwam rendered Elly Asieche’s first half penalty a mere consolation. At the Kenyatta Stadium in Machakos, Western Stima coach Salim Babu revealed his target of finishing within the top eight in the first leg after settling for a two-all draw with Kariobangi Sharks yesterday. The match saw Stima break the deadlock in the 14th minute through a Kennedy Owino header but the 2018 Most Valuable Player Erick Kapaito restored parity for Sharks in the 29th minute. Patrick Otieno netted Sharks’ second goal barely nine minutes into the second half but goalkeeper Samuel Odhiambo won a point for his side converting an 87th-minute penalty after Shaphan Oyugi had brought James Ogada down in the box. Babu said the powermen stand a chance of entering their name in the top eight if their yesterday’s performance is anything to go by. He heaped praises on the trio of Kelvin Wesonga, Owino and Fidel Origa who made their debuts yesterday after joining from Sony FC and Sharks. “We played well especially in the second half and I am happy with the point. We have a target of finishing in the top eight in the first leg then we will plan for the second leg,” said Babu. “I am impressed with our new signings who played well today and I think we will not miss the players we lost.  I am particularly happy with Owino for the goal and I think he is a perfect replacement to (David) Ojwang’.” Exasperated by perhaps by Stima’s late equalizer Sharks coach William Muluya delegated the post match interview to his assistant Ezekiel Seda who said the results contrasted their expectations. “We really wanted to bag the three points but we conceded a late penalty. Going by how we played I expected a win but we have to focus on our next match and right the mistakes we made today,” said Muluya.