Ian Duncan’s specially modified Toyota Hilux pickup headlines a 25-car list at this weekend's Nanyuki rally, the fifth edition of the 2019 Kenya National Rally Championships. Duncan, alongside veteran Tej Sehmi will be off the ramp first at 7 am tomorrow morning, where they will also be chasing points for the non-homologated Specially Prepared Vehicles (SPV) category alongside Geoff Mayes in a Land Rover and physically-challenged Nikhil Sachania, who will be behind a hand-controlled Mitsubishi Lancer Evolution 10. Second of the ramp will be defending champion and five times Safari Rally winner Carl 'Flash' Tundo and his partner Tim Jessop in a Mitsubishi Lancer Evolution 10. Tundo missed out on Kilifi Rally earlier in the month due to family commitments and is determined to make amends in his favourite edition. Runaway leader Baldev Chager is seeded third ahead of back-to-back three-time African champion Manvir Baryan in a Skoda Fabia R5. Manvir’s Skoda was out of this world in Kilifi, winning four out of six stages. Onkar Rai, on his second outing in the R5 VW Polo, is seeded fifth ahead of his elder sibling Tejveer Rai, Jasmeet Chana and Eric Bengi. The 2.3km Batian View Stage will be the designated spectator viewing point as the other two sections – Loldaiga Hills (31.43km) and Ndovu (46.15km) will be closed to spectators for safety reasons, according to event director Bimal Patel. Loldaiga Hills has over the years been synonymous with the Nanyuki Rally itinerary since its KNRC debut in 1998. This year’s event has attracted eight drivers in the KNRC Premier Class, seven in Division One category and six in Division II. Daren Miranda leads the Formula Two Championship as he nurses dreams of winning his maiden title in his lengthy career. Tuta Mionki and Suzanne Zwager are the only female drivers in the event. Tuta is navigating Eric Bengi while Zwager will be calling the notes for Mayes. Bengi has had a long period to sort out his reliability gremlins after skipping the Kilifi event but is backing off this time round in his bid to secure a maiden finish. Bengi said: “It’s been some time since we drove the car. We had a long repair period after the Safari breakdown. We also couldn’t make it to Kilifi. Nanyuki is usually a very good event for us over the seasons and we are hoping to have good tidings this time round. Our plan is to take an easy drive for a finish, which we have really missed.”