A Facebook post advertising an alleged recruitment exercise at the Kenya Defence Forces from August to October 2019 is a HOAX. The post, which has also been shared here claims that KDF is recruiting General Service Officers (Cadets) and Specialist Officers. However, KDF has refuted the claim that they are conducting a nationwide recruitment, stating both on Twitter and Facebook that any post claiming that they are recruiting at the moment is fake. According to the post, all the candidates interested in applying for the Cadet positions must have scored a B plain grade in KCSE and be holders of an undergraduate degree from a recognized university. It also states that the training period for Cadets will be three years while that of Specialist officers is three months. The post also asks interested candidates to submit their application documents via mail addressed to the Assistant Chief of Defence Forces (Personnel and Logistics) based at the Department of Defence headquarters in Nairobi. It further claims that the successful candidates will be notified via print media between September 17 -23 September 2019. PesaCheck has looked into the claim that KDF is running a recruitment exercise from August to October 2019, and finds it to be a HOAX. This post is part of an ongoing series of PesaCheck fact-checks examining content marked as potential misinformation on Facebook and other social media platforms. By partnering with Facebook and similar social media platforms, third-party fact-checking organisations like PesaCheck are helping to sort fact from fiction. We do this by giving the public deeper insight and context to posts they see in their social media feeds. Have you spotted what you think is fake news or false information on Facebook? Here’s how you can report. And, here’s more information on PesaCheck’s methodology for fact-checking questionable content. This fact-check was written by PesaCheck researcher James Okong’o, was edited by PesaCheck Content Editor Ann Ngengere and was approved for publication by PesaCheck managing editor Eric Mugendi. PesaCheck is a joint initiative of Code for Africa, through its innovateAFRICA fund, with additional funding support from the International Budget Partnership (Kenya) and Twaweza, in partnership with a coalition of local media organisations, and the International Center for Journalists (ICFJ).