Four Kenyan-sponsored youngsters have been nominated for the prestigious Dream Football Academy. The prodigies include Kadongo Kutangala, Raphael Kasana, Chidzidzingo Kombo were scouted during the annual Compassion International sports event at the Taita Taveta University in Voi last week. They will become part of a team of 44 Kenyans who will be enrolled for a boot camp in November for training in order to sharpen their football skills. The Dream Football Team, who are scouting for talent for kids aged between four and 14, camped in the institution for three days, before selecting the winners. From the team of 44, 14 will be taken for specialised training at the Loius Figo Academy, which is owned by legendary footballer Luis Figo, in Portugal. The beneficiaries, who come from needy backgrounds, are part of the 130,000 kids under the Compassion International Sponsorship Program. ​The Christian-based NGO seeks to end poverty by nurturing both soft and hard talents in the children.​ The four kids could not hide their excitement as their names were announced as winners. Kasana, 14, said that the opportunity will change his life forever. “It will give me the chance I have always wanted to get in life. I feel that it will enable me to showcase my talent in the global arena and get scouted by big clubs and will also help me sharpen my talents,” he said. Among the beneficiaries of CI, now turned Dream Football Kenya Operational Manager, is Boniface Mwenda. The aim was to see the talent rise and shine. Among the benefits of the programme are physical training and having the opportunities to be coached by the best in the global arena. It also focuses on the physical education and nutritional aspect of young children. CI Communication Specialist Daniel Kamau said they aimed to empower the children in the economic aspect and talent is one of the ways they do so. CI Program Support Manager Dr Samuel Mwaniki pointed out the need to help the children shine. “We try to work with what they enjoy most and ensure that when the opportunity comes, they will be the best in their areas. Many have been able to utilize these skills and are earning well from sports,” he added.