Marianne Kitany has told a Milimani law court that she decided to end her marriage with Mithika Linturi after coming across pornographic materials in the Meru Senator's phone. In her third day of testimony in her divorce case with Linturi, Kitany said she 'sneaked' into his phone and found evidence of a woman who had sent the senator pornographic material. She added that the senator denied her the conjugal rights, prompting her to seek divorce after realising that he had cheated on her. Kitany said one of the maids in Meru told her Linturi used to bring other ladies to the house. She promised to go and see her, unfortunately, the maid died before Kitany saw her. The other details on the maid will be given in camera. Kitany also found out that Linturi took titles of properties belonging to her relatives and charged them in a bank. She told the court that the senator ran away from Meru after she confronted her. Kitany said their families intervened to try and resolve the issue adding that she was threatened by Linturi. This was after she raised the issue of forgeries, forcing her to report the matter to the Director of Criminal Investigations. Kitany also told the court that at some point Linturi sent cops to the Runda home to evict her. She, however, revealed that she already had gotten protection orders against him and had filed for the preservation of property. Kitany told the court that when Linturi went to the Runda home he was with the police and some goons and dogs. They broke the gate and one of the doors and managed to enter the house and the police and Linturi watched from outside as her kids and herself were bundled out, she told the court. She added that there was no court order allowing them to be evicted and were driven out of the house with only what they had on. The people, both men and women, who came to evict then we're in a 52 seater bus, Kitany said in her testimony. She narrated that they lifted the seat that they were seated on and threw them down and even slapped her son. According to her, Linturi was giving instructions to the goons. She told the court that she and the children stayed at relatives homes waiting for the court. Kitany added that the Deputy Registrar visited the home and found the locks changed but forgot to change the son's bedroom which they used to access the house. It was at this point, she told the court, that she demonstrated to the Deputy Registrar that she was staying in that house. Linturi had removed all their belongings from the house to show that court that she never stayed in that house, she said. However, she added, being a woman she knew where all things were and they forgot to take everything. It is at this point that the court allowed her to go back to house temporarily but the doors were still locked and she sought police assistance to break them. Kitany told the court that the found new pangas and machetes in her home and later recorded a statement with the police. She also said that to date they have never been given back their personal items. Kitany also sensationally claimed that a lady told her Linturi hired her to poison her noting that she still fears for her life. She told the court that the lady was allegedly supposed to befriend her and put poison in her food. The court ruled that more details on that will be in camera.