Barcelona are yet to receive a single bid for record signing Philippe Coutinho, despite making it clear they are willing to part with the player this summer. Coutinho has endured a miserable time since his dream move to Barca from Liverpool in January 2018, in which he became the club’s most expensive ever signing in a £145million deal. Despite the playmaker being at the height of his powers and having recently played a pivotal role in Brazil’s Copa America victory, no bids have arrived at Barca’s table. The Spanish giants have not publicly stated they will sell the 27-year-old, though it is understood a move would be sanctioned in order to recoup losses and continue to build for the future. Moving on Coutinho would help the Catalan giants go about structuring a deal to bring Neymar back to Spain in a sensational move. While Coutinho’s camp have always stated their client is determined to make his move to Barca a successful one, there is now a willingness to move on in order to get his career back on track. Coutinho was mooted as a component in the Neymar deal, after Barca were reported to have offered the Brazilian plus Ousmane Dembele and cash to facilitate a deal. Paris Saint Germain are yet to budge on their stance with Neymar, who they made the most expensive player in football history when triggering his release clause in the summer of 2017. Coutinho has been linked repeatedly with a Premier League return, with the likes of Chelsea, Manchester United and former club Liverpool said to be interested. Chelsea still find themselves in the midst of a transfer ban, while Coutinho himself has ruled out and future move to United out of respect for his former club. Liverpool are yet to make an major signings this summer, though manager Jurgen Klopp has already made clear a return will not be happening. “In general, Phil Coutinho helps each team in the world, still - 100 per cent,” Klopp told ESPN. “It’s not about that. I like Phil, I think he’s a fantastic footballer and all that stuff, but it would be a big, big, big, big, big, big, big, big-money signing and it’s not our year for that.” “It’s just not possible. As I said, having him would make each team better - us included - but I really hope that he finds his luck at Barcelona.”