Helping Bandari reach the first round of the CAF continental cup is not enough for midfielder Danson Chetambe. The new signing from Zoo Kericho has been an ever-present in Bandari’s three competitive fixture so far and helped them get the result they needed in Sudan to oust Al Ahli Shendi on the away goals rule after they drew 1-1 there following their goalless stalemate in the first leg. Now with a clash against Tunisian side US Ben Guerdane in the next stage,  the Dockers have their eyes fixed on creating their own piece of history. “First I thank the Lord for this far and I still hope the best is yet to come from us. It’s a big step to us since most of us have never been on this stage but everyone stepped up and ensured we qualified to the next round which I know, with good preparations, we'll proceed again," remarked Chetambe., “Am looking forward to the challenge ahead and learning more from the competition. We just have to keep going on as a team to achieve more as we did in Sudan,” added the Busia-born playmaker. Chetambe added that he is keen to follow in the footsteps of his former teammate and close friend, Gor Mahia’s Nicholas Kipkirui, who has become a household name following his exploits with the record league winners Gor Mahia. “We are all happy about Kip's achievements and it is something that inspires most of us who played with him but we have to carve our own path towards success,” he said. Chetambe, who's football career started at Busia Lions in the third tier league before moving to Zoo, said he was determined to help Bandari land a first-ever top-flight title after they finished second to Gor last season. “The club has been on an upward trajectory and have won a couple of trophies in the last four years. I  hope for a better season. With God I know everything will be good this year,” concluded the fervent admirer of former Liverpool captain Steven Gerrard. Bandari begins their pursuit of the KPL title with a tough clash against Mathare United tomorrow.