Third way alliance leader and sponsor of Punguza mzigo bill  Ekuru Aukot has accused the political elite in the country for using propaganda to fight his punguza mzigo initiative. Speaking at the Bungoma county assembly  while taking the members of the county assembly what  of what the bill entails ,Ekuru said most of the things said about the bill were not only outrageous but also not true. “They have told you many lies about the Punguza Mzigo bill just because they believe everything In Kenya should be only done by  them, and today we are here to take you through the entire bill to decipher the lies, he said . Ekuru told the member’s of the county assembly that it was not true that the bill had proposed the scrapping of all wards saying the wards will remain as they are. Ekuru said the only propose the scrapping of the current constituencies and  instead  use wards as of development. He  in addition said this was informed by views taken from Kenyans who complained about the bloated  parliament  with most parliamentarians hardly getting chance to speak on the floor the house. “Kenyans have complained of a bloated parliament ,this bill proposes to scarp all the current constituencies and instead have two members of parliament elected from each county one a man and another a woman ,”he said. He said he was optimistic that the bill will be given a nod by the 47 assemblies because it seeks to protect the interest of the public. Ekuru further said that this was the only way to have the gender rule of two thirds achievable because every county will have two representatives with one being  a man and another woman Ekuru further said the bill had proposed very stringent measures to fight graft by public officers with the bill proposing that the cases of graft are expedited within 14 days and those convicted serve life imprisonment as in Asian countries. “We know some people will fight this bill especially those in the political class because they fear this part of the bill but this is what Kenyans want ,”Said Ekuru. There were mixed reactions among the MCas  in the assembly with some  expressing support while other pointing out shortfalls. “The problem of scrapping MPs will be a danger to our jobs because most of the current MPs will opt to run for our Seat,” Said Chwele ward MCA Mukhongo Barasa. A host of Nominated MCAS also expressed concern  that scrapping nomination slots will be disadvantage to women. Bungoma speaker Emmanuel Situma said the will be tabled in the house next week for discussion.