Women from Shamata town in Ndaragwa, Nyandarua county, on Monday demonstrated against high alcohol consumption which they said affected the ongoing census. They carried twigs and went round the town singing, screaming and dancing demanding that the government acts on bar owners who operate outside the recommended time. On Sunday evening, chaos erupted at Steps Bar and Restaurant after people were found by police locked inside taking alcohol. The government had ordered all bars across the country to close by 5pm during the census weekend to facilitate the exercise. But the owner of the establishment, identified as Jesse Mbiuki, obeyed on Saturday but continued with business as usual on Sunday. Francis Wambugu told the Star men were locked inside the bar as the owner said there was little the government could don to him. “I was among those locked inside. Chaos erupted when the police came because the over 20 men threatened to beat them. The bar owners said they have financial muscle and their money would work for them, “he said “Even as chaos persisted some men were shouting they cannot be counted because they are not goats. Imagine when one drunkard says so and others agree with him?" The protesting women said over ten men who were arrested on Sunday night, including the bar owner, were released after bribing their way out. They camped near Shamata patrol base demanding action. “Our husbands have stayed away. The census officials are forced to return to our homes even three times, which is tiresome and still we are not counted since our men are not home," one woman said. She said bars allow men through the back doors where they drink and forget their responsibilities. In Shamata, women work to feed their husbands and children, pay school fees and clothe them among other responsibilities, she said. The women said out of 10 men in Shamata nine are drunkards. They said even closing the bars in Shamata would not be a solition. The town has 12 bars, and the protestors said if they are reduced men will suffocate as they squeeze themselves in the few which will be left. They said instead the price of alcohol should be increased so many will not afford. Mbiuki, the Steps Bar and Restaurant owner, could not be reached for comment. Police officers at Shamata patrol base declined to comment. Nyandarua North subcounty police commander Timon Odingo denied that those who were arrested bribed their way out. He said they were all taken to court. He said those violating the law will be dealt with ruthlessly because Shamata is notorious and when they are arrested they accuse police of harassment.