BY CHARLES MGHENYI A South African retailer, Shoprite, is on Thursday expected to open its first new store in Mombasa’s City Mall Nyali. Shoprite, which has already opened up two stores in Nairobi, will be taking up space, which was previously occupied by the giant Nakumatt Supermarket. In March 2018, Nakumatt was evicted from the premises over Sh27.8 million debts in rent arrears. Last month, Shoprite Kenya general manager Andrew Mweemba said in a statement that they would be opening a new store at the City Mall Nyali, and become the anchor tenant at the premises. "The City Mall store will carry an extensive range of locally produced products with some imported items from around the world. It will be the first Shoprite outlet with a seating area inside where customers can enjoy foods prepared in the store’s fresh foods departments," he said then. Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho is expected to be guest of honour during the official opening of the store on Thursday. The City Mall store will create 115 new jobs. The retailer has already created over 240 jobs in Nairobi branches of Westgate Mall and Garden City Mall, which were opened in December 2018 and March 2019 respectively. Before December, Shoprite plans to open a new store in Karen Waterfront, Nairobi. The retailer expanded into Kenya to strengthen its position in East Africa, where it operates stores in Uganda and Tanzania. "Shoprite sees a lot of potential in the country and is excited about the prospect of expanding its footprint over time," said Mweemba then. Shoprite has taken advantage of the turmoil in Kenya’s big retail chains, which have been struggling with supplier, rent and salary debts. In 2017 and 2018, Nakumatt closed about a dozen branches that include the Westgate branch, Junction Mall, Thika Road Mall, NextGen Mall and Haile Selassie branch that was located at the Kenyatta University Plaza and Ronald Ngala branch. It also closed its branches in Mombasa and in the neighbouring country of Uganda that had accumulated rent arrears estimated at about Sh8.5 million. (Edited by F'Orieny)