University of Nairobi lecturers yesterday demanded the Sh1 billion they said the institution owes them for teaching self-sponsored students. They accused the management of holding on to the money. “The students have paid fees and these staff have not been paid — some as far as 2015. On Monday morning, a proposal was taken to the senate to mess up the payment formula for those who teach self-sponsored students,” union boss George Omondi said. “We warn the university that we’ll have no option but to stop participating in the programmes.” Omondi is the secretary general of the UoN chapter of the Universities Academic Staff Union. He said the management seeks to review existing policy without consulting and concurring with them. “It’s not that there is no money. There is increasing wastage of resources in the university, including excessive expenditure on council meetings and retreats, creation of non-strategic positions to reward cronies and payment for activities that are not essential,” Omondi said. He accused the management of “hiring of tents at exorbitant costs of more than Sh200,000 per day for open days and prayer days, and opening satellite campuses that have no benefit to the university”. The lecturers cautioned the university against increasing the fees paid by students. They said it has no moral authority given the hard financial times in the country. Vice chancellors are considering increasing fees from the current Sh16,000 to Sh48,000. They say government funding had increased three times since 1970s and proposed that tuition fees go up. But the lecturers said they cannot request for more when they can use what they have properly. “We must prudently use resources at our disposal before we ask for more,” Omondi said. They accused UoN of unfair and selective criteria in retaining of lectures who have attained retirement age. While others are retained on the basis of loyalty, some long-serving dons have been sent on retirement using unfair, inhuman and discriminatory approaches, they said. They demanded respect and warned that they don’t offer ‘slave labour’. “One-hundred-and-forty staff have stagnated in their current positions as a result of selective processing of promotions. The affected staff are extremely demotivated and frustrated,” Omondi said.