Roads of a total of 79.4 kilometres will be rehabilitated  in Nairobi, Transport and Infrastructure CEC Mohammed Dagane has said. The executive identified some of them as Juja, Lunga Lunga, Rabai  and Heshima roads. “This financial year, we have set aside Sh4.2 billion that will go into the department of roads and infrastructure,” he said after touring the ongoing projects on Thursday. Dagane said there are 58 ongoing projects fully funded by the county. He said 38 roads under regeneration will be completed by December. “We have capital projects in Eastlands that are being done and funded by the county. We also have partnership with the Kenya Urban Roads Authority.” Dagane toured projects in Doonholm and Baba Dogo. He said the estimated investment for regeneration program is Sh2.7 billion. “They have to end before the end of this year as per the plans,” Dagane cited the relocation of people from road reserves, financial flow both from national and county level as some of the challenges. He said street drainage, street lighting and roads will be part of the exercise. Work on projects that had stalled following the exit of the previous regime has resumed, he said. “We picked up because after all, all the roads belong to the public.” Dagane said the projects were aimed at fulfilling the county integrated development plan as well as the annual development plan which is anchored on the vision 2030. The CEC said they have put up 55 kilometers of roads over the last one and a half years. “The report I inherited in the previous regime that was handed over to me when I took over this docket gave me 19 kilometers of roads that were constructed over five years of previous regime.” Dagane said walkways are critical in areas with high population. He said those who have encroached on road reserve must move out without compensation. “There is extensive work going into demolition of properties on road reserves, on top of drainages and sewer lines.” Doonholm residents lauded the paving of some of the roads saying it has attracted business activities. “We have been having challenges of stagnant water especially during heavy rains,” hotel owner Mary Mumbua said. Mon-cons General contractor Robert Nyarandi said the new Doonholm road will be completed by the end of this month.