Besieged Aisha Jumwa has said she is still the Malindi MP even after ODM expelled her from the party on Friday. Speaking in Malindi shortly after ODM’s National Governing Council ratified her removal, Jumwa said she will serve her full five-year term as per the Constitution. "I want to tell residents the Member of Parliament for Malindi for a five-year period under the Constitution is Aisha Jumwa," she said. "I have come to assure you of that those saying there will be a by-election here are busybodies." According to the Political Parties Act, an MP loses his or her seat and a by-election is called in his constituency if he or she ceases to be a member of the party that sponsored him/her to Parliament. This happens after the said party writes to the Registrar of Political Parties to remove the member from its register. ODM’s National Governing Council adopted the Disciplinary Committee’s recommendation to expel Jumwa. The committee said in its report Jumwa contravened party doctrines by openly declaring support for DP William Ruto’s 2022 presidential bid. See: Aisha Jumwa officially expelled from ODM, Dori survives Related: You betrayed me, Jumwa tells Joho over ODM expulsion bid The panel made similar recommendations against Msambweni MP Suleiman Dori but the NGC deferred its decision on his fate. ODM Secretary General Edwin Sifuna said the council will summon Dori to a special session within 60 days for him to explain his case. Meanwhile, Jumwa accused Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho of being behind her woes. She said Joho had sent his foot soldiers to stir dissent against her by saying a by-election in Malindi was inevitable. "Those who are saying that are busybodies. They keep saying Joho has said he must be respected in Malindi but respect is earned not commanded," Jumwa said. She said Joho should borrow a leaf from his Malindi counterpart Amason Kingi who earns respect from Malindi residents by quietly initiating development projects. "The respect of the coastal people and Malindi residents goes to Hon Amason Kingi. Not this other one who goes around looking for popularity. He needs to know he's a leader not a celebrity," Jumwa said. She said she respects Joho but is not afraid of him. Jumwa said she is ready to take on Joho head on. Click here for the latest political news