The issue of how much
workers should be paid in terms of wages and remuneration in capitalist society
is not a simple matter. And Kenya is a capitalist society. This issue cannot be
sorted out piece by piece, sector by sector, job group by job group or industry
by industry. Somehow the whole economy needs to be looked at as a whole so as
to understand the relationship between labour and capital, between wages and
profits. When an employer tells his
worker, "I will only give you more money for your work when I can get
value for my money" he simply means he will pay more if he is satisfied
that he is going to make more profit. That means when the increased amount of
money paid in terms of wages yields more value. That is why Karl Marx and
Friedrich Engels came up with the "Labour theory of value" in
studying capitalism so as to debunk the notion that workers were beholden to
captains of industry for their livelihood. The real truth was that without
labour there could be no capitalist society; and even were one to exist without
caring for labour it would go nowhere. Today we live in a
much more complex world; a world in which various economies are at different
stages of development while, at the same time, they interact and interlock with
each other. But there is one principle of economic and social interaction which
seems to "over determine" a lot that happens in societies like ours
when it comes to the relationship between labour and capital, or between
workers and their employers. This is the principle of "global
imperialism" or what, in polite language, is called
"globalisation." For example, we in Kenya
do not manufacture Toyota vehicles: They are manufactured in Japan. In fact,
were you to attempt to manufacture such vehicles, here you will simply reproduce
another Japanese factory in Kenya "under licence" from the parent
company. Your advantage may be two things — creating local jobs and getting
some factor inputs locally. But by and large, to sell the vehicles in the local
market, your price will already have been "overdetermined" from
Japan. At Independence, African
countries faced this dilemma: they wanted to develop very fast and catch up
with the West while also producing manufactured goods locally for the
consumption of their people. So they created import substitution
industries  (ISI) which essentially meant that they would make the Toyotas
locally and sell them to our people at a price they could afford. In the
meantime they would keep away, through stiff tariffs and other protective
measures, any cheap competitors from outside. Very soon, however, it was
realised that ISI was not realising its objectives: It was increasingly
producing substandard goods and was still facing competition from cheaper and
better goods smuggled from abroad.  So we abandoned ISI and opened our
does to free trade and liberalisation. But I don't believe we thereby got the
right model for our economic development. In a study that I did for
the United Nations University and the Third World Forum in 1979-81 on the
experience with ISI in Kenya, I discovered, however, that the problem was not
that simple. My conclusion was that, notwithstanding its possibilities of
running into problems of poor quality due to absence of competition, this could
be overcome through "Innovation over time" provided enough capital
was available for technological innovation. Such Innovation, supported strongly
by the public sector from the cottage industry level, would have laid down for
us a stronger foundation for self-reliant development. This study available in a
book edited by Prof G. Ikiara and P. Coughlin entitled Strategies for Industrialization in East Africa. The chapter I
contributed which I am referring to here is entitled "Possibilities and
Historical Limits for Import Substitution Industrialization in
Kenya." Why am I raising these
issues we studied sometimes ago with regard to our debate on "the wage
bill" in Kenya today? One, because I am
convinced those issues are still as important today as they were
then. Two, because I am
convinced we cannot tackle the matter of the wage bill simply as a "public
sector" affair: The wage bill is "an economy wide" affair
involving the private sector and the public sector. The amount of money the
private lawyer charges an employee of the county government for services
rendered is no different from that he charges the watchman from the UN. Just compare
the salaries of the two: They probably went to the same school, graduated the
same year and were employed without going for any other special courses. But the UN employee is
earning probably five times more than what the county employee is earning. Yet
they have to live by buying the same commodities, in the same market and at the
same price. Just think about that for a moment. Three, in comes the tax
man who will make the UN employee pay more in income tax than the county
worker. But then comes other taxes like the fuel levy fund, the VAT and excise
duties which do not care about your income differences: You will pay as you
consume or as you seek to access any service. So when all these increase they
have tremendous effects on the "buying power" of your wage, whoever
you are. Owners of business, or
capitalists for that matter, have ways of circumventing the cost of living. But
they, too, are put under tremendous pressure when they have to pay dearly for
their raw material or the services they require to do business. This brings us
to our FOURTH ISSUE: The cost of doing business in Kenya. It is unnecessarily
too high at the moment. In fact, it is prohibitive. When the price we pay for
electricity goes up it affects all businesses, big and small, national and
multinational, cottage or large scale, agricultural or industrial. In business
when the cost of doing business shoots through the roof the first to suffer
will be the worker: he or she will be laid off as employers begin "to
rationalise" or cut their activities in accordance with the level of
profits. This is where the sharp
conflicts between capital and labour will begin in earnest with strikes all
over the place. We have witnessed strikes among nurses, airport workers and
many more may follow. Our economy has been made more dysfunctional due to
corruption which makes capital and technology seem more costly than they are
due to the costs "added on" to be hived off into people's pockets. So in order to deal
HOLISTICALLY with the wage bill issue we need to answer the question: WHAT IS
AILING OUR ECONOMY TODAYAND WHAT DO WE NEED TO FIX IN ORDER TO AVOID
FURTHER EXCALATION IN OUR WAGE BILL? 