The race for the Kenya cup playoff intensifies today as the competition enters match-day 12 in various venues across the country. Six teams chasing the playoff positions are separated by eight points and with five games remaining twists and turns are expected. Quins, who are joint third on the log with 37 points have a date with fifth-placed Mwamba at Kenyatta University. Quins rediscovered their form last weekend after two consecutive losses with a 41-23 win over relegation-threatened Strathmore Leos at the RFUEA ground. In the first meeting this season Quins edged Mwamba 29-26 in a nerve-racking encounter and head coach, Charles Cadovillis, expects tough contest against Mwamba. “It will be tough for both sides as we chase the playoff spots. We must bring our ‘A’ game to the encounter,” said Cadovillis. “The game will be decided by the forwards. If our pack can get it right upfront then we should win. However, Mwamba are no pushovers and will bring their best to the contest.” Quins will rely on skipper Peter Misango, Frank Khalwale, Patrice Agunda and Tony Mutai in the forwards with Eden Agero, Willy Ambaka and David Ambunya the pick of the backs. Mwamba will be seeking to bounce back from their 29-15 defeat to Nakuru last weekend. Mwamba will be seeking to be competitive in his game and keep their playoff push alive especially with Impala, Homeboyz and Nakuru breathing down their necks. Key players for Mwamba will be Eugene Sudi, Deus Mudaki, Stephen Sikuta and Tony Owuor in the forwards with Martin Oyugi and Billy Odhiambo the pick of the backs. Nondies face off with Homeboyz at the Lions’ Den in Ruaraka in a match that will be televised live by Bamba Sport at 4pm. Nondies survived a scare from Blak Blad last weekend, winning 10-7 at the Polo Club. When the two sides met at the RFUEA ground last November, Nondies stunned the deejays 20-14. Coach Willis Ojal will rely on his trusted lieutenants in skipper Fidel Oloo, Steve Odhiambo, Brian Njenga in the forwards with Ian Mabwa and Moses Begi the key actors in the back-line. Homeboyz have a mounting injury crisis with 13 players ruled out and coach Simon Odongo admitted it’s a must win game for his side. “We are in a dog-fight for the playoff positions and we must win the match. Injuries have affected us but it’s no excuse. We must start winning if we are to qualify,” said Odongo. The match will be preceded by the Impala vs Blak Blad game at the same venue from 2pm. League leaders Kabras, who lost their unbeaten record to champions KCB, have a date with Mean Machine as KCB make the trip to Nakuru to face Menengai Oilers. Nakuru host Strathmore Leos.