Isiolo county will start direct export of meat to neighbouring countries and the United Arab Emirates once upgrade of Isiolo International Airport is complete. The airport is undergoing a restructuring to meet international standards with expanded runways and facilities. The county has an abattoir with a capacity to slaughter at least 1,000 goats and sheep, 100 cattle and 50 camels per day. Isiolo leaders say the airport will unlock the county’s huge potential in lifestock farming. The local government has allocated funds to construct laboratory facilities, ablution blocks, access roads and equip the abattoir with refrigerated containers. Governor Mohamed Kuti said the move will boost livestock production, improve food security and discourage dependency on relief food. Pastoralism accounts for about 80 per cent of the region’s earnings. Kuti has secured an investor with market links to ensure the flagship project succeeds. The county also proposes to establish a processing plant for value addition of livestock products from the abattoir, including a meat canning industry and a tannery for hides. About 124,000 acres have been set aside for fattening weak animals before their slaughter. Several vaccination drives have been launched to eradicate Peste des Petits Ruminants (PPR), a highly contagious and deadly disease that affects goats and sheep. At least 542,000 animals have been vaccinated against PPR, Contagious caprine pleuropneumonia (CCPP), East Coast Fever (ECF) and Rift Valley Fever (RVF). The livestock department has constructed two cattle crushes or cages in Oldonyiro and promoted livestock supplementary feeding in Wabera, Burat and Bullapesa wards. A standby generator has been installed at Isiolo livestock offices to keep vaccines cool. Other activities include the rehabilitation of old boreholes and drilling new ones. Livestock is being restocked in f Sericho, Chari, Cherab, Oldonyiro, Ngaremara and Garbatulla wards. About 3,000 livestock insurance programme beneficiaries have been recruited to cushion farmers against losses from drought and diseases. The government is providing seeds and subsidised fertilizers to hundreds of farmers at the Iresaboru Irrigation Scheme to enhance food security. Drought-resistant crops including nelica rice have been introduced at the scheme, a fertile area which will be turned to a food basket. Last month, Kuti led delegates from the Office of the President to inspect the proposed Kubiqalo Dam which will harvest water along the Ewaso Ng’iro River during rainy seasons for irrigation. The county is keen on improving market access and linkages to allow farmers who have diversified their livelihoods to reap maximum benefits. Sixteen fishponds have been rehabilitated and, river lines enhanced to improve yield.