Simon Mbugua isn't shy of controversies. The wealthy EALA legislator has made a name for himself by taking on the government and the police forces in defence of his people in Kamukunji where he honed his political skills. Mbugua who is tipped to be a firm favourite to clinch the Jubilee ticket for the Nairobi senatorial race has lately defied the President to throw his support behind Deputy President William Ruto ahead in the Uhuru succession. The young politician now has his eyes set on ensuring a William Ruto presidency and is reportedly pushing DCI George Kinoti to stop targeted corruption investigations on William Ruto as a corrupt person. Mbugua argues that the fight is being used by people who are not ready to let Kenya go. Mbugua, who is also a real estate mogul with apartments and townhouses in the city, is also the point man of Nairobi City Governor Mike Mbuvi Sonko. Simon covers all of Sonko’s business interests and is pushing for Sonko to be Ruto’s running mate due to his widespread popularity and increasingly deep pockets. At City Hall, Mbugua carries the nickname ‘Prime Minister’ because of his strong influence in the county government affairs across the MCAs, cabinet and even junior workers. Although he is media shy Simon Mbugua is playing his cards right: he has the money, the experience and utmost support from Deputy President. Mbugua, He appears prepared to lead young men from Mt Kenya in the battle against the country's big political families. According to him, a William Ruto victory is a win for every person who came from an average or below average upbringing, hence earning himself the tag Tanga Tanga Nairobi General. Interesting times lie ahead as Simon Mbugua and other youth full MPs like John Kiarie, Kimani Ichungwa and Ndindi Nyoro have explicitly defied the President and made a firm stand supporting the Hustler movement. The old guard has yet to respond to a split Mt Kenya region vote. It will also be remembered that Mbugua also implicated in a report handed to the Ministry of Interior through the then prime minister Raila Odinga by the US ambassador Michael Ranneberger and tabled by the late minister, Prof George Saitoti. The controversy started when former Kiambu Governor William Kabogo accused Prof Saitoti of omitting the name of then minister Eugene Wamalwa and MP Simon Mbugua. This highlighted Mbugua’s political supremacy and since then it has been growing exponentially. Isaac Luvembe writes on political affairs.