The National Assembly Committee on Environment has recommended the suspension of 22 dam projects being procured by the Water ministry for Sh188 billion. The projects were to be procured under the Engineering Procurement Construct and Finance arrangement. Chairman Kareke Mbiuki (Maara MP) said Kenyans are not assured of value for money and the contractual arrangement has turned into a cash cow for entrepreneurs. “We invite the DCI and EACC to investigate all the projects procured under EPCF,” the legislator ruled. “The projects stand suspended until the government secures funding to compensate affected locals.” He said it is pointless to continue with the financing arrangement as the money is circulated, through kickbacks, yet Kenyans lack water in their homes. The dams are Kamumu, Rupingazi, Thambana—all in Embu; Meru’s Kithino, Maara and Thingitu; Pesi, Kinja in Nyandarua; Kahurura, Winyumiririe and Isiolo in Laikipia; Karemeno (Nyeri) and Londiani (Kericho). Others are Maragua IV (Muranga), Bute (Wajir), Bosto (Bomet), Gatei (Kiambu), Keben/Lessos (Nandi), Ndarugu (Kiambu), Mwache (Kwale), Kiandogoro (Nyeri), Soin/Koru (Kisumu/Kericho), and Kabasi in Nakuru county. Mbiuki issued the directive yesterday after the committee grilled Water CS Simon Chelugui over the stalled Sh28 billion Itare Dam project. The committee held that Kenyans are at a high risk of losing Sh4.3 billion in advance payment to CMC di Ravenna, the Italian firm contracted to build Itare Dam. The lawmakers cast doubt on whether the Italian contractor will regain footing in the wake of its application for bankruptcy. The company is under the DCI radar following stalled works at Kimwarer and Arror dams, for which taxpayers have reportedly paid Sh21 billion. However, Chelugui said the two projects are being executed by the Ministry of East Africa Community and Regional Development, headed by Peter Munya. Kipkelion West MP Hillary Kosgei said the Itare Dam project will embarrass President Uhuru Kenyatta and his administration owing to the uncertainties. MPs said the government is apparently helpless in dealing with the crisis in the wake of only three options to mitigate the same. However, Chelugui said the ministry is confident the project will be completed.