DPP Noordin Haji yesterday said former Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero is not above the law and won’t be tried separately from his 10 co-accused in a Sh213 million fraud case. In an affidavit, the DPPP, through prosecutor Jennifer Kaniu, urged the court to dismiss Kidero’s application for a separate trial. He said Kidero has not demonstrated why he should be tried separately. Last year, Kidero denied conspiring to commit fraud and two counts of dealing with suspect property, leading to loss of public funds. He is charged alongside former county secretary Lilian Ndegwa, former chief finance officer Jimmy Kiamba and former finance executive Gregory Mwakanongo. Others include former accounting head Stephen Osiro, former acting chief finance officer Luke Mugo, and former acting head of treasury Maurice Okere. Yesterday, Kidero filed an application claiming the DPP was duplicating fraud charges against him. He cited the conspiracy charge, saying it gave rise to more than one offence and is intended to embarrass and prejudice him. The former county chief appealed to the court to order that the offences of dealing with suspect property, as set out in counts two and three, be separated from the others and heard separately.  charges not duplicated But the DPP said all the accused persons are equal before the law and Kidero is no exception to be treated differently. Kaniu said the prosecution would be prejudiced by having to call the same witnesses for different trials, considering that the facts of the case are similar. She said the witnesses would be referring to the same documents for both trials and that would be tedious on their part. In opposing Kidero’s application, Kaniu argued that duplicity does not arise in any way since the charge of conspiracy to commit an offence of corruption under the Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Act, 2003, is distinct. “The application by Kidero is opposed in its entirety on the basis that it is incompetent and misleading. The DPP will endeavour to establish that the charges against Kidero are premised on solid evidential and legal bases,” her affidavit read. The prosecution denied claims it intends to rely on only four witnesses and four documents against the former governor. “The assertion that we will line up four witnesses and rely on four documents in prosecuting Kidero is untrue and seeks only to mislead this court. The Constitution provides that the DPP shall not be under the direction or control of any person or authority,” Kaniu said. The case is to be heard today .