Over 20,000 participants are expected to participate in this year’s Beyond Zero Half Marathon on March 10 in Nairobi. Intellectually and visually impaired competitors will be part of the participants. The elite start has also been incorporated in accordance with the international standards for 21km and 10 km road races. The Paralympic race will be flagged off at 6:30am followed by the 21km half marathon at 7am. Athletics Kenya (AK) president Rtd General Jackson Tuwei and event organiser IMG Kenya CEO Peter Gacheru said the 10km road race and corporate run will be flagged off at 8:30 am followed by the 3km the family fun race. “In a bid to create maternal health awareness, we have incorporated a 2km pregnant walk, we have also adopted the same route marking for the 21km and 10km road race”, said Gacheru. All the races will begin outside Nyayo National Stadium on Uhuru Highway. Read; Beyond Zero Half Marathon hope to register 25,000 participants this year From Nyayo Stadium, the participants will head towards the Central Business District on Uhuru Highway then to the Museum overpass before making their way back to the stadium through Kenyatta Avenue. Speaking during a media briefing, Tuwei said the route has been finalised. “We are pleased to report that all plans are in place to ensure the 2019 Beyond Zero Half Marathon is a safe and great experience for all participants. We have completed important details like the route, prize money and race categories as well as security during the event," Tuwei said. "We have also expanded our race categories to include people with intellectual disability and the visually impaired to demonstrate AK's commitment to inculcating a culture of inclusion." The categories for this year’s race include; the 21km half marathon and the 10km road race, which shall feature two categories; elite category that is eligible for prize money and the amateur category. Other categories are Wheelchair Half Marathon and the 21km Tricycle Half Marathon - all amateur categories. Also included is the 5km Family Fun Run. The Paralympics team will be using the competition as a pre-qualifier for the 2020 Paralympics Games to be held in Tokyo, Japan. For the elite categories, winners will be taking home Sh250,000 for 21km and Sh100,000 for 10km. The 4th edition will see a total workforce of 2,000 people and 300 volunteers. Also read; Beyond Zero Half Marathon bags Sh20m Coop Bank boost Click here for the latest political news