The foreign-based duo of David Sessay and Christopher Tangen are the latest inclusions into Harambee Stars’ provisional squad ahead of the final Africa Cup of Nations qualifier match against Ghana on March 22 in Accra. The two, who play in England and Sweden respectively, were summoned by Sebastien Migne ahead of the return match which pits the two sides who have already sealed a place in the finals by virtue of being the top two teams in Pool F. Sessay a defender, who turns for Crawley Town in England, is expected to muscle for his debut in the star-studded defence while Tangen,who plays for Sweden-based Oskarshamns, will face a similar situation in breaking into the congested midfield. The two were joined by Kariobangi Sharks playmaker Duke Abuya in earning their first senior national team call up albeit the latter was part of the local 25-man squad which trained last week at the Kenya School of Monetary Studies in preparation for both the Afcon and Chan qualifiers. Similarly, Mathare United winger Cliff Nyakeya and Vihiga United captain Bernard Ochieng were elevated to Migne’s senior team after making it to the reserve team in the previous qualifying rounds against Ghana and Ethiopia. Migne demonstrated his faith with the players, who steered the country in returning to the continental tournament after 15 years of absence as he retained a large chunk of the players who were part of the qualifying journey . Kenya recorded wins against Ghana(1-0) and Ethiopia (3-0) before scooping a priceless away draw in Addis Ababa to attain unassailable tally. The Frenchman named eight local-based players with Gor Mahia producing three; Joash Onyango, Francis Kahata and Philemon Otieno while Sharks goalkeeper John Oyemba, who is making a return to the team after almost two years joined the three alongside Bandari’s Farouk Shikalo, Nyakeya, Ochieng (Vihiga) and Sofapaka’s utility man Dennis Odhiambo. However, talks on whether Dennis Oliech would make his comeback seemed not to have met the consideration of the youthful coach as he overlooked him for the second time having snubbed him while naming the local based players two weeks ago. Migne also left behind the current Kenya Premier League top scorer and Ulinzi Stars forward Enosh Ochieng as well as a on-form Kenneth Muguna and unattached centre half David “Cheche” Ochieng who also trained last week with the local based players. Experienced Kakamega Homeboyz striker Allan Wanga highlighted the five-man reserve team named as a back up to the team.