“Is paternity in dispute?” The magistrate asked looking up from the file. “No, your ladyship. All four children are my client’s,” the lawyer stood up and answered hurriedly while trying to button his ill-fitting coat. “So why isn’t he paying fees and maintaining his children?” The million-dollar question. A certain Tanzanian celebrity entertainer has been in the news because he apparently refused to ‘help’ his father who abandoned him and his mother when he was a child. This renegade father appealed, nay beseeched the said entertainer to help him as his health was failing. The magistrate’s questions rang in my head as I read the ridiculous story. I am sure someone asked Baba celebrity the same questions when celebrity was a young man. ‘Why aren’t you looking after your child?’ Funny how the absentee parent always has a ‘valid’ reason. They have the luxury of not being ready, being broke, getting addicted to something, not liking the other parent or being bewitched and possessed by demons. Now that celebrity is a ‘big somebody’ and his father and many other people think he ought to forgive. He ought to forget. He ought to move past it. Let us take a look at a few things we expect people to move on from. We are asking a man to move on from being abandoned as a child by a parent. Never understanding why but always feeling like it was his fault. It is no secret that women-led households are poorer, so maybe growing up there was never enough to eat, school fees were a problem and children had to grow up much faster than their counterparts because they were the childminders or had to look for ways to help the household financially. We are asking a woman who had to learn about her period from equally clueless girls because her mother was not there to teach her how to use a sanitary pad. Or a man who has to ask his mother about wet dreams. Not to mention other long-lasting psychiatric issues. Many people go through these things and live relatively happy lives. No doubt. What I am insisting on is no one should tell you how to deal with such issues. Some are even looking after prodigal parents, but, it should not be taken for granted that this is what will and should happen. You would never put a criminal in the same room as his victim. Dead or alive. Yet you want celebrity and many people like him to ‘forget’ the past. To discard their feelings. Not to be angry. I think this is further abusing the victim! If you are one of those forgive, forget, move on and do not be bitter crusaders, I must say to you, duck you very much. If only you made as much noise when children are being neglected and abandoned. It should not matter that this is your parent. Parents do not provoke your children. These are human beings with legit feelings. Thankfully, the universe makes it such that children grow no matter what, that they flourish and what is meant to be, will be. When they have their “look dad (or mum), I made it without you!” moment, do not get on your miserable high horse and tell them to forget or and forgive or to let God ‘take revenge’.Their pain is real. They must be addressed. Some of us who choose to be the reliable parents witness this pain and we cannot shoo it away with some mundane verses or quotes. We would have fewer depressed people if we acknowledged their experiences and feelings. There is absolutely nothing wrong with being angry. There is nothing wrong with not wanting to be associated with someone who caused you pain and suffering. In fact, it is self-preservation. You can ‘forgive’ people, even forget them if you like and let them face the consequences of their actions. No guilt.  fellyoyuga@gmail.com