President Uhuru Kenyatta has, arguably, made the first inspired Cabinet Secretary nomination of his presidency. The President has co-opted merit and integrity in the Executive, only considering the nominee's competence. The utility value of Dr Fred Matiang'i in the Cabinet comes close to the nomination of Prof George Magoha. Matiang'i is in good company that should be expanded to boost performance. Magoha brings managerial competence, integrity, principle, peer respect, experience, style, flamboyance and discipline to the Cabinet. His nomination represents a leadership that is strict enough to get things moving professionally, and keen enough to humanise policies. Magoha will not hound unemployed graduates with police, debt collectors, auctioneers and agents of the Credit Reference Bureau. There will be a better way of treating Higher Education Loans Board defaulters. Magoha and Matiang'i represent a rethink of unexamined loyalty, partisanism, political correctness, cronyism, and ethnic constants of the Jubilee era of errors. Winning elections is not about sharing the booty. It is a call to leadership. If things are going wrong for President Kenyatta, tarring his legacy, it is because primordial parameters are used to misplace and disorient state officers. The best time to have placed the right people in the right positions was 2013, when he became President. The other better time was after the 2017 election. Uhuru was beginning a second term that should have been anchored on national values. The next best time is now. The President rebounds with the nomination of Magoha, an acclaimed urologist, a former vice chancellor of the University of Nairobi and chairman of the Kenya National Examination Council. Magoha and Matiang'i were a team at Knec, when the administrator of national exams made a 360-degree management shift. Magoha's arrival at Knec in 2016, after the shambolic 2015 exams, particularly, showed willed individuals can restore integrity in public office. Passionate individuals like Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti, Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji, and Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission CEO Twalib Mbarak are in office, but they need teams that share their vision to make an impact. Matiang’i brought character to the management of national exams at Jogoo House, as Education CS. But Magoha completed the missing component. Magoha is a man of intellectual depth and management acumen. As VC of the University of Nairobi, he transformed the premier institution from business-as-usual mode. Academic standards improved; student unrest was contained and public communication acquired structure and professional urgency. The university regained credibility, and improved its continental rating. Magoha did not find it easy as VC, but he dissolved intrigues that rode on ethnicity, politics, malice, envy, and peer rivalry. During the season of backstabbing at UoN, Magoha was candid with intrigue-makers: He told cringing professors he was not at the university for money, status or prestige. He had these, and more, before he was appointed VC. He told them he was making more money in a single surgery than he earned as VC. But he accepted the appointment to make a mark. He disarmed critics by simply hitting them below the belt, in his usual robust, humorous and witty, yet stern way. When Magoha left UoN, he was appointed chairman of Knec, with an image reconstruction agenda. He restored the integrity of national exams. In Matiang’i as Education CS, Magoha found a teammate. The CS will need an equally inspired team at Jogoo House to repair the education sector. The market folk manners and clan elder link will have to relocate from Jogoo House, to create space for transformative leadership. Matiang’i is a product of good mentorship. He was a student of former Cabinet minister Simeon Nyachae. Nyachae, a former Chief Secretary, and a one-time Minister for Finance and Agriculture, among others, was always the star in the constellation of the Kenyatta, Moi and Kibaki administrations. Nyachae had a Midas touch, in every institution he led. Matiang’i was Nyachae’s private secretary and confidante between 1997 and 2002. In Matiang'i lies the best from Nyachae's school of decorum. And, in Prof Magoha, a product of good education, alumnus of Starehe Boys Centre—he also passed by The Maseno School. There is hope merit can reclaim a place in public office.