Visiting Wales Rally GB clerk of the course Iain Campbell is happy with progress made by the Safari Rally Project towards the World Rally Championship comeback plan in 2020. Speaking during the official launch of steering and Local Organising Committee of Safari Rally 2019, Campbell said he is overly excited with the enthusiasm and support from the government and various stakeholders. Campbell, alongside Jammo Lehtinen, who was expected to arrive last evening, will assist and guide the LOC in delivering a world class candidate rally this year. “We are here to ensure the Safari has the best possible guidance with the objective of regaining WRC status in 2020,” said Campbell. He added that spectator experience and general safety will be key to a world class event. “Starting the event with a 4km super special at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani, will be a good experience. The modern WRC is very much a sprint event. The drivers nowadays are competing for tenths of seconds. Therefore, the essence is to provide the safety of the competitors and spectators and these are some of the things we will be working on as we go round the route for the next six days,” he said, adding: “The WRC has become a sprint and that’s going to be the biggest challenge as the Safari used to be won by minutes or hours.” Sports Principal Secretary Ambassador Karimi Kaberia said: “We are committed and excited be part of the WRC Safari Project. At least by the end of the week, we will know where our strengths and weakness are. We are glad to host the visitors and hope they will impart some valuable experience in matters pertaining to world class organisation. This event has so much passion around it and I think because of this, I have seen people go an extra mile. Before we even released money for the project, people were already working—something we have not seen in the past.” Kaberia also announced that CS Ambassador Amina Mohammed will head the steering committee, where he is also a member. Other members of the steering committee include Joe Okudo, who is the principal secretary in the Ministry of Tourism, Phineas Kimathi, the CEO of The WRC Project, Joshua Oigara, Jaswant Singh, Jim Kahumbura and John Njogu. The LOC will be headed by Kimathi who will be assisted by Kassam Farah of the sports department, Robert Kamiti (Ministry of Tourism and wildlife), Eric Kipkorir (Ministry of Interior), Surinder Thatthi (FIA liaison and sporting director), Bimal Patel and Majindet Bansal both directors of KMSF. Others are Chris Eden (technical rep), Peter Njenga (media director), Hellen Kagendo and George Mwangi, who is the sport and event organization representative. The clerk of the course, Gurvir Bhabra, will head the sporting and event organisation which has 25 members including chief scrutineer Musa Locho, chief safety officer Norris Ongalo and John Kamau, who is the ASN Steward. The 13-member secretariat will be headed by Kimathi and includes KMSF general manager, Mwaura Njuguna.