The biggest threat to President Uhuru Kenyatta's legacy is corruption and we have said this before. If there was a legacy for him to leave behind, the most enduring one, it is to ensure that we are firmly on the path to accountability. That public office is no longer an opportunity to access public resources for personal benefit . That is the biggest legacy he should strive for. If he genuinely fights corruption, all his Big Four Agenda will more less fall in place. Corruption is a big issue in Kenya and it is a matter that needs to be dealt with particularly if we look at the big projects, there has to be a special insulation of those projects from corruption because they are very enticing for players in a political system . There are private and public interest. In a very general sense, as a country, we failed from the start to put in place mechanisms that would discourage those who would want to benefit unduly from such projects that involve billions of shillings. The ways of doing that is basically to demand for a transparent way of procurement, for government to be able to make tenders and contracts available to the public and to be able to allow the public to assess the progress of the projects as well as having proactive disclosures from the institutions concerned and the progress being made in the documentation of these projects. There is also need for them to inform the public, particularly around the delays if any and the reasons as to why the delays have happened. If we had gone down this route, we would have somehow mitigated what we are seeing today.These were issues that were raised back in 2013 when The National Alliance and United Republican Party administration had these big projects and on the face of it very impressive projects that had the potential to transform this country. But for those of us who have always been concerned with accountability, we were concerned, and we asked questions in a number of spaces. Seeing that we have had a poor record when it comes to accountability, it was key that the multi-billion shilling projects should not be undermined by corruption. The Executive Director Transparency International Kenya spoke to the Star Click here for the latest political news