Oscar Sudi: Spunky, waspish, sometimes irrational, even absurd, but
always imaginative. And gutsy. Here is a man always spoiling for a fight with
anyone or anything that so remotely seems to be against Deputy President William
Ruto ambitions. And he has not spared anyone, even the President, from the
tongue-lashing. Making acerbic utterances that sometimes have no basis in fact
or knowledge, his speeches reflect the acute political disillusion and social disengagement
that is slowly shifting the Rift from the centre of Jubilee. In the same manner the President did not reprimand former Jubilee
vice chairman David Murathe for going after the DP, the Deputy President has
not bothered to reprimand Sudi, showing he fully agrees with what he is saying.
Jubilee is now standing on stilts. You can blame it on the Handshake, at least
as far as the Rift is concerned. The real problem here is the emotional capital that was employed in
getting the Rift to vote for Uhuru. So high it was, that the region voted almost
to a man for him. But Uhuru did not quite realise they were not really voting
for him: They were voting against Raila Odinga, who is now his close ally. Their
morbid dislike of Raila saw them mobilise every last vote to ensure he would
only see State House from the fence. All was well, until the Handshake happened
on March 9 last year.  A NIGERIAN SOAP When Uhuru chose Ruto as his running mate, the position of the Rift
Valley became that of a poor mother who eagerly welcomed her daughter’s marriage
to a respectable family. This marriage came with the possibility (promise) of inheriting
untold riches in the (near) future. Things were going on well in the marriage until March last year, when
the Sandet (son-in-law), found a Mpango. Initially, there was nothing
wrong in their Handshake but the Mpango and
her friends immediately began targeting the wife, shouting loudly about her
past misdeeds. While it is true that the wife has a bit of a reputational problem, this
had never been a problem until now. And now the husband is watching as his Mpango,
who was once a close friend of the wife, is bashing his wife. This has naturally rattled the mother, who is claiming the Sandet has lost respect for her and her
daughter. The Mpango, on the other
hand, is unrelenting. She seems to have cast a spell on the husband who has
since joined the forces against his own wife. These are the intrigues of the Nigerian
soap and this is how the Handshake is viewed in Ruto’s backyard.  HOW NOT TO FIGHT CORRUPTION All our leaders, past and present, have participated in or presided
over corruption in one way or another. Hardly any public leader is clean. I have argued here before that Jomo Kenyatta in 1958 had about a
dozen articles of property, half of which were his clothes and one of which was
a ‘half pair’ of pajamas. When he died 20 years later, he was worth billions
and owned land that is viewable from space. His successors were no better and
his son has treated us to a good portion of corruption intrigues. Ruto, on his
part, has been mentioned in many scandals, it appears that his problem is also
about the way he handles his business. Nearly every Kenyan can tell you what
Ruto owns and the rest of the world too, thanks to Stephen Sackur of BBC. The hue and cry over Weston Hotel is the culmination of carelessness
on the part of Ruto, particularly if he knew the paperwork was not above board.
As long as he remains with ambitions for the presidency, Weston Hotel will be
his soft underbelly. This makes it much easier for his political competitors to
target him. But as soon as politics is brought to the picture, you will never
catch a thief.  TRAIL OF THE BREADCRUMBS While the Handshake is credited for clearing the way for the renewed
fight against corruption, political undertones are still standing in the way. It
is still true that most cases depend on how far the centre of power lies. For
instance, nobody dared to arrest or prosecute members of Uhuru’s family when
they were mentioned in the Sh7 billion Afya House health scandal. Last year, however, high profile arrests in the Energy sector and pre-dawn
house raids were conducted. While the DPP and the DCI have denied targeting one
community or region, they have been at pains to explain why they are not doing
much for even more serious corruption cases. The breadcrumbs of corruption are
spread all over but it appears that the DCI is looking for those that lead to
Ruto’s doorstep. For that, they blame the Handshake. It has pretty much
rebalanced power and Ruto is feeling exposed. This only means one thing, the
Rift and for that matter DP Ruto, has been edged out of the centre of
power. Last month, a Kenyan named Justus Rotich moved to court to obtain
orders to compel the DPP to include Energy PS Joseph Njoroge in the Kenya Power
scandal pitting former MDs Ken Tarus and Ben Chumo. He argued that the DPP
intentionally left out Njoroge, who had been the MD between 2007 and 2013, when,
he says, much of the procurement problems began. Most of the Ruto allies wonder the materiality of the charges given
that about Sh409 million in substandard transformers would be miniscule
compared to the Sh7 billion Afya Scandal and even the Sh9 billion NYS scandals.
They read even more mischief in the prosecution of the Kenya Pipeline MD Joe
Sang over the fuel jetty in Kisumu, when in fact he was expressly implementing
a Board decision. They argue that to be fair to Sang, PS Joseph Kinyua and John
Ngumi, who sit on the Kenya Power board, should also be prosecuted. Ngumi, who
is wanted in Tanzania for a bribery case, is considered a close ally of the
President and is untouchable. In the latest case, that of the two dams Arror and Kimwarer, DP’s
allies have explained it saying the DCI is again cherry-picking the cases with
hidden political motives. They have lined up all the other dams where advance
payments were released and no work is going on as examples. Oscar Sudi again
blames the Handshake for having all the arrows being fired at Ruto. Let’s see how they will go.  