Nakuru residents have turned the North Cemetery into a park. With its thousands of graves, it is now a fascinating monument with a social history — at least for some people. For many years, cemeteries have been feared by passers-by and respected by relatives of those whose remains they hold. Some considered them sacred. This was because different communities give different meanings to what constitutes afterlife. People had different relationships with the dead. Some communities believed burial sites were full of ghosts, while others saw them as their physical link to the living dead. In Nakuru, however, things are changing. Nakuru North Cemetery has become a recreational centre. When the Star visited on Friday, residents had thronged it to relax. Some were having their packed lunch on top of graves. Others were taking a nap. Still, others waited for the sun to set so they would troop back to their homes. They no longer care about the fear associated with such a place — a mark of the underworld. And because the county government has abandoned it, the cemetery has also become a grazing ground for livestock. Pasture is in plenty, even on top of some graves. A path cuts through the cemetery. It’s used by those walking to or from town. Governor Lee Kinyanjui said they are seeking 65 acres for a new cemetery. The county has allocated Sh40 million in each of the last three financial years for land. Some old graves have fading epitaphs. Prominent people buried at the cemetery include Lord Egerton, who died on January 30, 1958. He is the man after whom Egerton University is named. The pioneer aviator, photographer and filmmaker was a frequent traveller and agriculturist who loved architecture. On Friday, Moses Gachiri said secular beliefs are taking root and have demystified life. He works at the cemetery. Gachiri said people had been indoctrinated to believe in myths, which mainly instilled fear. He has been digging graves, burying the dead and maintaining graves for more than a decade. During the visit, he was seated on a grave chatting and having lunch — bread and soda — with his two friends. Occasionally, they would burst into laughter. Mburu said he loves the work and will not leave his area of ‘expertise’ for any other. He said people no longer fear cemeteries. “I’ve been working here for 11 years now after being introduced by a friend. On my first day at work, I experienced shivers down my veins burying the bodies. But I had to persevere because I had to put food on the table for my family.” Mburu quit his work at a bakery before he took up this dreaded role. He almost became a social misfit. His wife separated from him. Not even his mother recognised his new job. Gachiri now says no workplace is better than a cemetery. He earns between Sh500 and Sh2,000 a day, depending on the workload. It is not as bad as people may think, he said. The mother is now happy for him. Unlike many people, he has a livelihood. The cemetery is full and many residents now prefer Longonot and Gilgil cemeteries.  eating on graves “On peak days, I earn Sh2,000. I arrive at work at 6.30am and leave at 7.20pm daily. Sometimes I’m asked to maintain a certain grave. I oblige so I can eat and buy clothes,” he said. “It’s not that I have been obsessed with graveyards. It’s not that I’m into death, or the idea of dying. The inevitability of me being buried in a graveyard one day makes my skin shiver. However, sitting on the graves and eating from there is part of my daily routine.” Gachiri said he feels slightly different when stepping into the cemetery. His breathing slows down, his mind feels soothed and he feels calm all over. Resident Peter Kamau, 39, said he goes to the cemetery to relax during lunch breaks or at the weekend when he has nothing to do in town. “What could be more life-affirming than the reminder our time on earth will, inevitably, come to an end?,” the father of two said. “It might be something to do with the fact that my grandfather died before I was born, so childhood visits to my relatives would always mean a long walk through the village to visit his grave opposite Nakuru Level Five Hospital.”  greatest memories Kamau said some of his happiest memories are from the hazy afternoons he spends at the cemetery. He has been going there since his childhood. “My cousin and I would play hide and seek behind moss-coloured tombstones, or take paper and coloured pencils and make rubbings of curling letters that remember the deceased,” Kamau said. “After all, you can tell a lot about a person from their tombstone. What inscription did their loved ones choose to carve in stone in remembrance of them? Do they have a simple rectangle of marble or an elaborately chiselled angel? Are there flowers, and do they look fresh?” He finds walking around the gravestones calming. “Stepping out of the mad rush of life into the hushed burial ground is like crossing a threshold between worlds. Secluded within these sanctuaries of resting souls, the pressing problems of life become muted to stillness,” Kamau said. He said it was believed that when you walked on the graves, you would hear a voice say, ‘Someone walked over my grave’. “We could walk and somehow hear an echo and we could shiver for no reason. Some said if you stood on a grave, the spirit of the dead would follow you,” he said. Another resident, John Karanja, said people find peace in the most unexpected of places, reflect on it a little and find out something new about their lives. “You might have just found something that puts you at ease. We were told to leave the place, ideally take a meandering route so their spirits couldn’t find the way back to haunt us,” he said. Mary Wakirogo said even though cemeteries are “very sad places”, they are the place where life meets death, “the last connection between the dead and the living”. Others buried in the cemetery are politician Mark Mwithaga in August 2016, freedom fighters and former MPs such as Babu Wood, Nakuru’s first MP in 1976. Most of World War I burials were made in November 1918. There have been 27 Commonwealth burials of World War I and 45 from World War II. “It’s shameful that the county has neglected the souls in the graves. Years ago, relatives of World War victims used to come to pay their respects. They decorated the graves before flying back. They no longer come probably because of the county’s neglect of the cemetery,” Rift Valley Council of Elders patron Gilbert Kabage said. Youths want to be hired to maintain the cemeteries. “The county should contract us because we’re capable,” John Kirogo, 21, said. County public health officer Samuel Kingori said the tendering for building a perimeter wall and landscaping is underway.  “Bush clearing has already started. We will have a contractor put up a strong perimeter wall and do the landscaping.”        