Wazito coach Muhammed Mchulla has cited inexperience as the reason behind his sacking. Mchulla was shown the door yesterday after going without a win in the past three matches—a result which angered boss Ricardo Badoer, prompting him to take the action. The youthful coach, who took over the reigns following the resignation of Frank Ouna at the end of the last season, had guided the club to rank third with 38 points— three behind league leaders Ushuru after 17 rounds. However, a 1-0 loss to second-placed Nairobi Stima, 1-1 draw against Administration Police and a 3-1 drubbing at the hands of FC Talanta irked their boss besides putting their promotion chase in jeopardy. Badoer, who purchased the club at the start of the new season, injected finances into the club which had signed arguably the best players around, purchased new and modern kit and is reported to be on the verge of getting a new bus as well as building a stadium and setting up an academy. Mchulla said the club indicated that his inexperience was his undoing and revealed that he would pursue to enrich his coaching credentials elsewhere after taking a sabbatical. “The management said that I was inexperienced and I had to accept it even though I asked myself why did they elevate me to the rank of head coach if they knew I lacked the necessary experience to steer them back to the top flight. I registered 12 wins with the club and I was confident of returning to the top flight. I have no grudge with them and I wish them all the best in their quest to gain promotion. I will take a short break from coaching but will come back soon.” Meanwhile, the club’s sporting director Solomon Alubala said the club will embark on getting Mchulla’s successor after a boardroom meeting slated for later in the week. He also denied reports that they had already settled for national U-20 coach Stanley Okumbi. “We would like to thank coach Mchulla for his contribution this far and wish him the best of luck in his endeavours. We will begin the process of hiring his replacement after meeting with the management of the club.”