Central Organisation Trade Union Secretary General Francis Atwoli has asked Kenya Aviation Workers Union to keep off work until their officials are released. Atwoli spoke on Thursday at Cotu headquarters during a meeting with staff members. Kenya Civil Aviation Workers Union Secretary General Moses Ndiema was on Wednesday arrested at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport during the strike. “We urge Kawu members to keep off until when Ndiema and all other colleagues that are inside are unconditionally released,” Atwoli said. Atwoli also criticised the capability of Transport CS Macharia in handling workers. “Uhuru has to reshuffle his cabinet. If he does not do away with people like Macharia, they will bring down this county,” the Cotu boss said. Atwoli said the documents on the plans to merge JKIA and the KAA had implications, and the CS did not adhere to what they had agreed on. “We had a meeting with the transport CS with aviation workers and we ask for merger documents but they did not provide us with them. We agreed with Macharia and KQ staff that they will be briefing workers where they have reached in terms of the merger but they did not do that,” he said. See more: Aviation workers strike illegal, union officials to be charged - CS Macharia Atwoli maintained that individuals had taken control of Kenyan airports by grabbing their lands and built hotels. In his interview with JKL on Wednesday, Atwoli termed the merger as a “big scandal”. He said Macharia ought to have also been grilled alongside Treasury CS Henry Rotich. “You cannot take Rotich to DCI and leave Macharia outside. The merger between KQ and KAA must be made open," he added. He said the matter needs total inclusivity since it affects all Kenyans. “Take everybody on board. These workers have put a lot in the airport for many years. They have every right to know the type of this merger and what effect is it going to have to the workers,” the Cotu boss said. Kawu on Wednesday paralysed operations at JKIA as hundreds of passengers were stranded for hours. More: Passengers stranded at JKIA as aviation workers begin strike Click here for the latest political news 