Intimidation and fear of being labelled corrupt within the civil service are derailing development projects, Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua has said. He said some honest officials are afraid of being told they have misappropriated public funds. "Procurement officers, accountants, Principal Secretaries are among other officials working in fear since they have been labelled thieves. They are alleged to have looted public funds and fear working and being accused of stealing money," Gachagua said. The legislator urged President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto to protect government officials as Kenyans are still waiting for the Big Four to be realised. The MP spoke at Mary Leaky Girls High School in Kabete constituency during a fundraiser in aid of fencing the school. He accompanied the Deputy President. Also present were MPs Kimani Ichung'wa (Kikuyu), Jonah Mburu (Lari), Alice Wahome (Kandara) and Woman Representatives Rehema Jaldesa (Isiolo) and Faith Gitau (Nyandarua). Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu and Deputy Governor James Nyoro were also present. The legislators said there is nothing to show one year after the President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition leader Raila Odinga's shook hands, apart from intimidation and the war on corruption propelled by politics. Mburu said they hope the government will deliver on its promises and properly investigate corruption suspects. “We want to maintain the bond we had when Uhuru took over for a second term,” the Lari MP said. Ruto warned the government will not watch as non-Jubilee leaders cause division within it. The DP said the party still supports the handshake but some leaders have taken advantage to stall projects and the Jubilee manifesto. “The handshake brought to an end the demonstrations we witnessed, politics of division, hatred and tribalism, but no one should take advantage of our party and the President's generosity. We know them and they should respect that he allowed them we work together for the sake of Kenyans,” he warned.   