Ushuru coach Ken Kenyatta has asked his charges to put behind their yesterday’s ecstasy following their 3-0 win over Kangemi All Stars at Camp Toyoyo and focus on their next match against Kenya Police. Ushuru easily dispatched Kangemi to register their 12th win of the season besides taking their tally to 41points and Kenyatta is keen to replicate a similar result in the subsequent matches rather than focusing on the past wins. The long-serving coach observed that the race to the Kenyan Premier League necessitates a game at a time approach and cautioned his players against complacency after going top of the league courtesy of the yesterday’s win. For the second time, Kenyatta lauded his players for their displays against Kangemi citing discipline and teamwork as their main strength. “I am happy with the win and how we executed our plan in the entire 90 minutes. That to me is now history as we have to focus on our next match against Kenya Police this weekend. We have to take a game at a time and I ask my players to forget about the past matches and concentrate their efforts on the next match. We won today because all departments were disciplined and the teamwork was superb,” he said. Moses Osure gave the tax men the lead in the 15th minute, connecting Patrick Macharia’s pin-point cross to break Kangemi’s watertight defence which had thwarted deadly attempts in the opening minutes of the first half. Experienced forward Oscar Mbugua doubled the lead for Ushuru at the stroke of the 45th minute, heading in Evans Maliachi’s freekick. Second half substitute Alex Sunga made it three for Ushuru in the dying minutes of the game to seal the three points for Ushuru. Kangemi head coach Shabana Masika attributed their loss to lack of maximum concentration. “We played well but lack of concentration cost us the three points. We have to bounce back in our next match as well as correct our mistakes.” Elsewhere, Kenya Police coach Charles Omondi expressed concern with their 2-1 win over Modern Coast Rangers at Karuturi grounds. Police scored through Abraham Dawo and Clinton Kinya to render Samuel Ate’s goal null and void. “I am happy with the boys for the win and the way they handled the match. Although we would have won by a bigger margin, I am pleased with the result.”