More than 150,000 condoms have been distributed in Kirinyaga for use during the sixth Devolution Conference that starts on Tuesday through to Friday. The conference will be held at Kirinyaga University and is expected to attended by over 6000 delegates. County Deputy Public Health officer Peter Irungu said the condoms have been distributed in bars and restaurants where the delegates will be accommodated. “People should not shy away because the distribution of condoms has been going on even when there is no devolution conference,” he said. The condoms are to be given for free. However, the move by the county headed by Ann Waiguru has caused an uproar from Kenyans on Twitter. “150,000 condoms were distributed in Kirinyaga county ahead of the Governors devolution conference. These are planned to be used by delegates in attendance. These are people paid per diems, other allowances etc. But we still need to give out free condoms. Hii country ina shida (This country has a problem),”@Food Ninja “Over 150,000 condoms distributed in Kirinyaga ahead of devolution conference..what are they advocating for?” Aden Ibraham asked. Anthony Kariuki asked, "Condoms distributed ahead of this conference. What would be the theme of this conference?" “If the governors and the #DevCon2019 delegates cannot be faithful to their spouses, how do we expect them to be faithful to the electorates and spare their money, ”John Miano said. “Don't worry, they have put 250 condoms for each delegate. The economy is quite safe from the sexy orgy that is about to commence, ”another user commented. “High sex demand tonight at Kirinyaga county after the 6th Devolution Conference. But do not worry. 150,000 condoms have been distributed. Phew! You are safe.”Mwaura Kamau said. “More love and less paperwork, ”Roger Roger said. During the five-day meeting, the government and its key stakeholders will be reviewing what they have been able to deliver. On Feb 2018, Condoms were provided in all Huduma Centres ahead of Valentine’s Day as part of the HIV-Aids awareness campaign. The Huduma Centres partnered with the Aids Healthcare Foundation and the National Aids Control Council. The Aids Healthcare Foundation is an NGO that has been working on HIV prevention for the past 11 years. The initiative came as the world today celebrates International Condom Day. Some 40,000 Kenyans seek services at Huduma Centres daily. Also Read: Free condoms for residents after rise in HIV-Aids spread A survey showed 60 per cent of these are aged between 18 and 34. Read:Grab your free condoms at Huduma Centre near you Click here for the latest political news