Ushuru seek to extend their stay at the top of the National Super League when they play Kenya Police today in one of the three matches set for the Camp Toyoyo. Ushuru have gathered 41 points from 18 rounds and will be hoping to the end the first leg on a winning note against the law enforcers who are eighth with 28 points in a bid to enrich their promotion credentials. Wazito will begin life without their sacked coach Mohammed Mchulla when they confront St. Joseph Youth at Afraha Stadium. Wazito dropped to third with 38 points following the poor run and will be looking to redeem themselves from their three-match win-less run and will be hoping that Police arrest Ushuru—a result that will see them go joint top. FC Talanta will be seeking to build up on their 3-1 win over Wazito when they entertain Shabana in the final match set for Camp Toyoyo on the day. Talanta who are perched fifth with 35 points will hope to silence yet another elite team and hopefully reduce the gap between them and Ushuru to three points. On the other hand, Shabana who are ninth with 29 points will be looking to bounce back to their winning ways following their one-all draw with Nairobi Stima who are set to play Eldoret Youth at Karuturi grounds. Kisumu All Stars will be buoyed by the three points awarded by the federation when they host Thika United at the Moi Stadium, Kisumu. All Stars had lost 2-1 to Green Commandos in their last match but had their appeal on Commandos’ move to field an ineligible player upheld and were hence awarded the three points and two goals which lifted them to fourth with 36 points. Thika rank 14th with 20 points. In other matches slated for the day, Nairobi City Stars will be looking to scale past the red line when they play Kibera Black Stars in the opening match of the triple header planned for Camp Toyoyo. The former top flight side are third from bottom with 11 points while the revitalised Black Stars sit 16th with 15 points. A misfiring Fortune Sacco hope to arrest their four match win-less run when they visit Modern Coast Rangers at Serani grounds. The debutants have gathered 22 points and sit 12th a place above Rangers who breath behind their backs with 21 points. Tenth placed Coast Stima tackle Green Commandos at the Mbaraki Stadium