A father whose son was killed by a snake resolved to kill it. As the snake came out of its hole for food, he took up his axe but missed the head and cut off only the end of its tail. Afraid that the snake would bite him in revenge, the father decided to make peace and offered bread and salt. But the snake told him,“There can never be peace between us, for whenever I see you I shall remember the loss of my tail, and whenever you see me you will be thinking of the death of your son.” It is hard to forget injuries when he who caused the injury is present. Mornings are becoming unbearable. We wake up to screaming headlines of new multi-billion-shilling scandals. As a result, there is visible anger among Kenyans, who are demanding that more be done to arrest this situation. Just last week, the Central Bank governor said 99.3 per cent of Kenyans’ bank accounts hold less than a million shillings. We can therefore rightly conclude that almost the entire country does not know what a million shillings looks like, let alone a billion shillings. It is therefore understandable when Kenyans bay for the blood of those mentioned in these multi-billion-shilling allegations of corruption. And as these allegations make headlines, we also learn that the government is struggling to provide the capitation required to ensure 100 per cent transition from primary to secondary school. When Kenyans look at these allegations and think of how much they are struggling to make ends meet, they can’t help but get mad. It is thus not hard to understand why Kenyans have suggested that we should publicly execute those found guilty of corruption. Corruption has become a capital offence that must attract the harshest of penalties, including life imprisonment. Let us look at what makes corruption a capital offence. When we are told that people stole money that was supposed to go to healthcare, it means that hospitals somewhere in Kenya are struggling to stock medication and other supplies. This can easily mean that a child, a woman or man somewhere in Kenya may die or has died because of inadequate healthcare. We have incidents where we are told that people have diverted money meant to enhance water supply somewhere in Kenya. These people are denying Kenyans somewhere the right to water for domestic use, farming or commercial use. What is the difference between those who steal these funds and those that violently attack someone in downtown Nairobi and leave them for dead? There is no difference between the two groups of criminals. So if killers must be hanged, so must the corrupt. It is time that we took corruption seriously and called for decisive action from those in the criminal justice system. Heads must roll, sooner than later. We must see people not only going to jail, but also being made to pay for their actions by returning all that they have looted. It can no longer be business as usual in Kenya if we are to slay this dragon of corruption. Parliament must also come out strongly and give the country legislation that not only ensures that corruption cases are expedited but also that those found guilty receive the harshest of punishments. In addition, our MPs must ensure that the laws are tightly amended to ensure that people do not keep rushing to court to block prosecution. As we prepare the budget, MPs must scrutinise it to ensure that it was not made to fit into people’s pockets. Lastly, MPs should ensure that the EACC, the DPP, the Judiciary and DCI have the necessary resources to effectively go after those stealing from Kenyans.