The Speaker’s position in Homa Bay continues to attract more court battles, as Elizabeth Ayoo files a contempt case against clerk Daniel Kaudo. Through lawyer David Otieno, the impeached speaker — but reinstated by the court pending hearing and determination of her case —wants Kaudo held for contempt for disobeying court orders. “Upon being held in contempt, the clerk be jailed for six months for disobeying court orders or for such a period as the court may deem just and appropriate," Otieno submitted. He said the clerk has refused to adhere to some of the orders given by the court to facilitate her clients return to the office. The Employment and Labour Relations Court judge Nduma Nderi on February 7 cautioned the respondents or any other person from interfering with Ayoo’s terms and conditions of service. Justice James Rika had on November 6 granted Ayoo's wish and restrained the respondents from appointing any other person as speaker. Nderi also told the clerk not to interfere with the speaker in her duties. "The petitioner is to be fully facilitated by the respondent and clerk to her office in the assembly without interference," he said. He said the sergeant-at-arms should be enjoined to ensure the orders are respected and adhered to. "Any appointment that shall be made for the post within the assembly will be dimmed unlawful, null and void," Nderi ruled. The judge said action will be taken against anybody who goes against the orders. However Ayoo’s lawyer in the application yesterday added the said order was extracted and served upon the senior executive secretary clerk on February 12, who accepted it and served the respondent's advocate in Nairobi on February 13. “The clerk to whom the order was directed to has consistently and persistently disobeyed the court order remorselessly, despite the reminder of the severe penal consequences that may be visited upon him," he said. Otieno added, “He continues to do so making it impossible for the applicant to execute her duties as the speaker of the assembly”. The application will be heard on March 19 to give time to the respondent to respond. This comes after the Homa Bay County Assembly Service Board and the assembly filed a notice of motion, with the intention to appeal against judge Nderi's ruling. The notice of appeal seen by the Star dated February 20 states, “The 1st and 2nd respondent in this petition being dissatisfied with the ruling by Justice Nderi delivered at Kisumu intends to appeal against the whole ruling in the court of appeal”.