Fatuma has long, lustrous hair, her crowning glory. Her husband ordered her to shear it off, saying other men stared and smiled seductively at her. He feared she would run off with another man. Fatuma (not her real name) refused. He battered her, bashed her with a gas cylinder and sexually assaulted her. She was rushed to Mombasa Level 5 Hospital where she was treated and discharged. Her husband has not been arrested, still walking free in Kisauani. Fatuma is not alone. Mary will celebrate Women’s Day on Friday out of her matrimonial home — but not far enough away — because of persistent battering. Mary (not her real name) is among many Mombasa women, some in hospital, who have been assaulted, tortured, strangled and left for dead by their husbands or partners. Some have had objects inserted into their private parts, organs cut and bodies bashed and slashed. They are abused for just about anything. Looking smart, wearing make-up and smiling back at men. Some women are punished for cheating. A number have gotten the beatings of their lives for failing to cook for the husbands, even though they provide no money for food. When her husband John failed to leave money for food on February 25, Mary reached out to their neighbour Jay for help. She borrowed Sh50 to buy food for her three-year-old son. Jay didn’t have cash but asked Mary to accompany him to an M-Pesa shop where he withdrew cash and gave her Sh50. John was at the shop and saw Jay handing the money to his wife. That is when all hell broke loose. John pounced on the wife. “He slapped, kicked and rained blows on me. When we got home, he threatened to smash the boy’s head with a bottle,” Mary said. She bit his hand and the bottle fell. “He said he was going to kill me and my son.” The 21-year-old mother has been married to John for four years. She is HIV positive and persistent battering and poverty have left her weak. She can barely stand on her own and frequently is in pain. Her father died and her mother got remarried. They lived in Malindi. But Mary’s matrimonial home in Kisauni has been hell. She says her son has witnessed all the assaults inflicted by the father. “He cries whenever he sees his father. At one time, he told me, ‘Mummy, don’t leave me alone. Daddy will kill me’.” The death threats persisted. On February 28, John hit Mary with a club on the head, hips and shoulder. When she recovered, Mary said John wanted to attack his son. “I had to shield him. So I continued to receive the beatings,” she said. She was giving her testimony on Tuesday to Muslims for Human Rights. She said she reported the matter at Nyali police station under OB number 15/28/02/19. John was arrested on March 1 but released a day later on Sh5,000 bail. He will be arraigned at Shanzu law courts tomorrow on assault charges. Muhuri gender and women’s rights officer Topister Juma said many cases of domestic violence go unreported. “Women and men are in fear,” Juma said. She said there are no rescue centres for victims. “Mary has taken refuge at a house next to hers. So her husband can get to her if he wishes. She is not safe at all,” Juma said. Juma asked the government to set up rescue centres in every county. She said more deaths will be reported if centres are not established. In August last year, Anne Waireri’s lower lip was bitten off by husband David Mungai in a domestic quarrel. Mungai was charged. At the Mombasa Level 5 Teaching and Referral Hospital, many victims lie in wards cursing their “husbands from hell”. Muhuri said domestic violence has reached alarming levels and was quickly taking its toll on the emotional, physical, social and psychological well-being of residents. As the world marks the International Women Day on Friday, it is hoped that efforts to reduce gender-violence will bear fruit.