Sugarcane farmers say they are yet to receive money in their accounts, despite government’s assurance that some have been paid. Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri yesterday said payment of Sh2.7 billion started on Friday and the process was underway by yesterday. But Kenya National Federation of Sugarcane Farmers deputy secretary Simon Wesechere said farmers had been assured they will get the money by tomorrow. On Jamhuri Day last year, President Uhuru Kenyatta directed the Treasury and the Ministry of Agriculture to process payments for thousands of sugarcane farmers owed by state-owned millers. The cash was delayed. The sector has been rocked by crises blamed on mismanagement. Yesterday, Kiunjuri said they will turn the sector around. He spoke during a media briefing on sugar sector reforms at Capitol Hill, Nairobi. ODM leader Raila Odinga was present. He said the sugar sector has suffered from mismanagement and corruption. Raila called for a permanent solution to the crisis. “This is an issue that we need to deal with generally as a country. Other industries, which are dependent on the sugar industry, have collapsed, including the molasses plant in Kisumu,” he said. The former Prime Minister said the sugar crisis has hurt many people in the region and killed many jobs. “The sooner we settle this sugar issue the better.” A meeting set for next Monday in Kisumu county will focus on the sector’s problems so participants come up with the way forward. Leaders from the cane-growing regions and officials from the task force on the sector crisis and the Privatisation Commission will attend. “We hope the Monday meeting will be the last nail in the coffin. We want to ensure this problem is history. In a few months, farmers will be able to get value for their sweat and smile all the way to the bank,” Kiunjuri said. Privatisation Commission chairman Paul Otuoma said that though the privatisation process “has been cumbersome, there is light at the end of the tunnel”. “We want to make the sugar industry is more profitable and see farmers’dividends rise. We also want to get strategic partners to make the industry more efficient as we improve production as recommended by Comesa in 2000,” the former Funyula MP said.