A group of Kalenjin elders wants to meet President Uhuru Kenyatta in connection with the political differences in the region sparked by the war on corruption. The elders, mostly from Nandi, on Sunday accused some politicians of fanning animosity. "We want to meet the President and first apologise to him over remarks by some of our leaders, which amount to disrespect to the Head of State," elder Christopher Koyogi said. Koyogi said leaders had failed to organise a forum in which critical issues can be discussed. Elder Samwel Ngetich said, "We want to talk about jobs for our people, issues affecting farmers and development projects, when we meet the President." The elders disclosed that said they have written to State House, seeking audience with the President. The group spoke as Nandi youths, led by Joseph Kiptoo, accused Governor Stephen Sang of concentrating on politics at the expense of his election development pledges. "Our governor is inaccessible and it's now easy to find him on television politicking than to meet him at his office," Kiptoo said. The youths, who addressed the press in Eldoret, said they had been sidelined in the award of jobs and contracts, which, according to them,were given to outsiders connected to senior county officials. They said the administration of former Governor Cleophas Lagat was better than Sang's. Sang and Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi have been attacking President Kenyatta for allegedly targeting DP William Ruto and the Kalenjin community in anti-graft war. Elders Koyogi and Ngetich faulted the Jubilee leaders hurling  insults at the President. They said they want President Kenyatta to work with leaders like  former ministers Henry Kosgey, Dr Sally Kosgei and former Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto. "We feel the former leaders have better capacity by serve and unite Kenyans than some youthful ones," Koyogi said and asked the Head of State to give jobs to some of the former leaders. Ngetich said they want the President to serve his final term without problems. The elders lamented that since year 2013, many youths who had completed college education were jobless as the elected leaders politicked. They, at the same time, supported the handshake between the President and ODM leader Raila Odinga. Separately, some Keiyo and Uasin Gishu leaders told Ruto and his allies to "stop opposing the war on graft for personal interests". Yussuf Keittany, Paul Kibet, Kipkorir Menjo and Tom Murgor asked the DCI to step up the fight against corruption and investigate all collapsed projects in the region, including roads.