Some of the sh 1.5 billion property in which doomsday Prophet David Owuor is been accused of taking over belonged to the late George Saitoti. Without giving details, the family of Jayne Muthoni told DCI officers yesterday that some of the property that Owuor and his church have taken was donated to their sister by the late Saitoti. Muthoni was a close confidant of the late Saitoti for many years and was at some point his main lawyer. Saitoti was a multi-billionaire and owned lots of high-end properties in Nairobi. Muthoni is reported to have handled a lot of Saitoti's business transactions. Saitoti crashed to death in June 2012 after his chopper went down in Ngong Forest. Muthoni has a son and yesterday her family said she had denounced Owuor and asked for her property back. The DCI yesterday moved to probe claims that self-proclaimed prophet Owuor illegally seized controller of a Sh1.5 billion estate in Nairobi. This came a day after the family of Jayne Muthoni, a fabulously rich woman-turned-pauper, claimed the prophet was irregularly controlling her multi-billion properties. The family wants the DCI to carry out investigations unearth movement of Owuor’s money to establish if they were being wired from Muthoni’s accounts. The Star established yesterday that senior bishops of Owuor’s church recorded statements with the DCI as investigations kicked off. The family had on Monday lodged a formal complaint with the Directorate of Criminal Investigations against the doomsday prophet and his Repentance and Holiness church After the family reported the case, DCI officers on Monday evening visited Muthoni’s Dove Court Apartments on the upscale Raphta Road and the leafy suburb of Riverside Drive, Westlands. Yesterday Prophet Owuor's Repentance and Holiness church fought off claims that Jayne Muthoni was financing Owuor 's lavish Ministry. At least 12 bishops from the ministry convened a press conference in Nairobi and denied the claims as “sheer blackmail of the prophet and the church.” "What we have witnessed is calculated efforts to blackmail and soil the name of the prophet,” said Bishop George Kayla. Jane Gathara, a lawyer who Jayne allegedly appointed to run her legal matters, said that she (Jayne) made a personal decision to appoint a co-director after the administrator director defrauded her of millions. "The company had run in troubles. KRA wanted to auction the property to recover more than sh70 million that had not been remitted," he said. The bishops fumbled when they were asked to explain why the church failed to inform the family of her condition and why the Ministry did not inform the family of Jayne's decision to appoint a co-director "The decision was personal and we did not have any influence over that. The family was aware of her condition because even their mother and grandmother suffered from the same condition (memory lapse) It has also emerged that the police are investigating the sale a prime piece of land in Thika  which was reportedly sold by Jayne's company for sh800 million Muthoni’s kin wants the DCI to investigate claims that the ‘man of God’ has been irregularly pocketing millions generated from the woman’s estate against her will. The properties are said to be raking in over Sh10 million a month in rent alone, a financial war-chest that the family alleges has afforded Owuor an extravagant lifestyle. Muthoni’s relatives are accusing the prophet and senior bishops in his church of having coerced the woman, to appoint Owuor's follower, Lilly Njage, as a co-director in Shaba Investment Limited, the registered owner of the flats. They claim that Muthoni was not of sound mind when she authorised Njage to manage her property because she had been placed under the influence of unidentified drugs that could have caused memory loss. Yesterday, Alyce Macharia, Muthoni’s sister, said they handed over the ownership documents of all the properties their sister owned to the officers for investigations. “We have handed over the documents. They are going to track where the money has been going to,” said Alyce. The sister said they had confiscated the documents from Lilly Njage the co-director in Shaba Investments Limited firm. “We want to know where the money generated from my sister’s properties has been going to because my sister has been living like a pauper. When we entered her house on Monday, there was even no onion in the kitchen,” claimed Alyce. The sister said that the family wants the prophet himself investigated, claiming that he lives large because of their sister’s wealth. “We don’t want to deal with the dogs, but the owner of the dogs because the dogs are faithful who simply follow what they are told by the owner,” she said. The family wants the DCI to lay bare how income from their sister’s properties spread across other parts of the country is being spent and by whom. She added: ““Just outside the Dove Court apartment there is a kiosk that sells Sukuma Wiki and tomatoes and we are told that our sister has a bill of Sh16,500 for items consumed for only four days. What are they eating? She posed. Alyce claimed that their sister owned luxury and high-end vehicles but they cant be traced by the family. It is alleged that the prophet moved into Muthoni’s palatial Riverside Drive home and forcefully turned it into his private office and nerve centre for his church operations. The home compound contains a swimming pool in which Owuor 'dipped' Raila in 2009. It is claimed that the Riverside home was at one point owned by former Internal Security minister George Saitoti.  