Nurses will no longer be hired on a permanent basis. The national and county governments yesterday agreed to tackle problems that disrupt services. Employee strikes was one of the issues that came up. A statement signed by Health CS Sicily Kariuki and Council of Governors chairman Wycliffe Oparanya said caregivers will work on contract terms. “Any vacancies for recruitment of nurses arising from normal attrition in both levels of government will be filled on contract terms. The Public Service Commission to develop a standardised contract framework for engagement of the health sector staff, including terms and conditions. The SRC input will be incorporated,” the statement read. The statement came after the President and governors yesterday struck a deal to work together to avoid unnecessary tussles that hurt services. They met at State Lodge, Sagana. The two levels of government agreed to consult regularly and to speak in one voice. Nurses from 14 counties were a few days ago been on strike over pay raise and allowances. Some are yet to report back. The plan by the state and the counties is meant to end strikes to ensure services in public hospitals are not disrupted. Kariuki and Oparanya said disciplinary measures will be taken against nurses who fail to resume duty in the next 10 days. Mid last month, President Uhuru Kenyatta, after meeting CoG officials, directed the nurses to report to work. He ordered the Health ministry and the county governments to fire defiant nurses. The President met the governors ahead of the devolution conference, which begins in Kirinyaga today. Kariuki and Oparanya said the national government, through the Ministry of Labour and Social Protection, will review the law to identify existing gaps within the healthcare systems at both levels. The PSC will develop and issue guidelines for the management of human resources. They called for commitment on the part of the conciliation committee that was formed by Labour CS Ukur Yattani in January to resolve the standoff between the nurses and the counties. They said the governments will put in place contingency measures to address challenges that might arise in case the 60-day conciliation window lapses without progress. They will, however, keep remitting the statutory and third party remittances in compliance with the law. “The summit applauded the collaboration between the national government and the counties in addressing emerging issues that impact on service delivery,” a joint statement said. “The summit expressed deep concerns over the evolving industrial action taken by nurses in the health sector and underscored the importance of lasting solutions to the unrest.” They will work together in getting sustainable solutions to current and future problems. Their consultations will be based on the Constitution, laws, and principles of collective responsibility to prevent, manage and resolve industrial disputes. The Labour and Social Protection ministry will provide leadership in industrial relations across all sectors.