Muslims
for Human Rights has demanded special, general, aggravated, exemplary
and punitive damages after the government linked it to terrorist group,
al Shabaab in 2015. Muhuri
counsel Willis Otieno told the court in Mombasa on Friday the
association was punitive and only “punitive damages” will be a
corrective remedy. He spoke during the final submission of a case with Muhuri sued the government for defamation. “For
special damage, Muhuri incurred cost in legal representation and
meetings to clear their name. The aggravated damages is based on the
nature of allegation made – terrorism is number one criminal offence in
the world,” Otieno said. Otieno said exemplary damage is based on the nature the defendants conducted themselves. “They
named Muhuri as terrorist sympathizers and went on to punish and impose
sanction of freezing the account without due diligence,” he said. On
April 7, 2015, Muhuri was among 85 organisations blacklisted over
alleged terror funding links, following the Garissa University College
terror attack that occurred five days earlier. The massacre left 148 dead and 79 injured. But on November 12, 2015 the High Court revoked Muhuri's freezing. Inspector
General of police Joseph Boinnet's move to freeze the accounts was
termed unconstitutional and violated the rights of Muhuri according to
Judge Anyara Emukhule. Otieno
said the state has not adduced proof of 'reasonable and probable'
intelligence to court that made it link the NGO to al Shabaab. “Staff of Muhuri and those associated with the human rights group will suffer everlasting stigma,” he said. “This
court ought to conclude the record by correcting illegality and confer a
decree that will demonstrate the association was unlawful, and
penalties and damages were awarded.” Otieno
said acts of terrorism constitute heinous crimes known to humanity to
an extent United Nation came with regulations to suppress it. “To casually associate a person to terrorism is the grave form of injury,” Otieno said. Otieno said the al Shabaab link would ordinarily be supported by evidence. During cross examination, Central Bank of Kenya Assistant
Director in charge of Funds Supervision Matu Mugo admitted it lacked
evidence when it froze Muhuri's accounts. Mugo is the only defence
witness. Otieno
told the court: “To date, no evidence has been presented in support of
reasonable ground either in open court or undercover of
confidentiality.” Otieno
cited United Nation Security Council Resolution on Suppression of
Terrorist of 2013 that vest powers to a Cabinet Secretary to freeze bank
accounts. “The accounts were frozen by CBK and Financial Reporting Centre,” Otieno said. Under the same regulation, the CS is mandated to present sanction list of organization whose accounts are to be frozen. “No
such list was present to warrant freezing of Muhuri account. Also, no
prior and adequate notice of administrative was given and statements of
reasons were not supplied,” Muhuri lawyer said. Otieno said CBK's move made Muhuri fail to meet statutory obligations. “Muhuri could not pay salaries, files returns with KRA and make NSSF and NHIF deductions,” Otieno said. He said the NGO could not meet donor obligations if carrying programs. Attorney General lawyer Nguyo Wachira and his CBK counterparts objected the award of damages. Judge Dora Chepkwony said a notice of judgement will be issued within 14 days.