Ambassador Amina Mohammed has thanked President Uhuru Kenyatta for her appointment as the Cabinet Secretary for Sports. Amina was moved to the ministry in the latest Cabinet reshuffle on Friday. She was the Education CS before she replaced Rashid Echesa who was sacked. President Uhuru appointed Knec Chairman George Magoha to head the Education docket. More on this: Cabinet reshuffle: Uhuru sacks Echesa, moves CS Amina to Sports docket "It is with humility and high honour that I thank Uhuru for according me the opportunity to serve as CS in Foreign Affairs, Education and now as CS Sports," she said. Via Twitter on Saturday, Amina congratulated Magoha on his nomination, adding that he was grateful for all sector players and development partners for their support throughout her headship at the ministry. "Together, we made huge strides in deepening the sector’s reform agenda. We delivered credible 2018 national examinations, successful CBC roll-out...among others," she said. Her post attracted mixed reactions from Kenyans who both encouraged her and told her not to make things difficult in the Sports docket. @MohaJilal said, "You're always a hard worker and a performer as even his Excellency Hon. Uhuru declared. I'm proud of you my sister, and I know you can take Kenya to the next world." "Please talk to the athletics team and get down to the core problems." "Best wishes in your new docket. I would have loved to see you settle in well in the @EduMinKenya but I’m very confident that you will bring the same zeal and energy to the sports & culture ministry," @mwololo_gregory said. @anderearden said, "You are a performer! Congratulations! Take up the new responsibility with the same zeal and commitment. Your star will continue shining. God Bless you!" "You are still one of the most dedicated Cabinet Secretary. You work with zeal. May you help Kenyans on the Sports sector. God bless," @JoelMukoma said. @vinsvns said, "The President have faith in you please don't let Kenyans down The Sports ministry has a greater challenge if U look at the few resources allocated, the number of youths who have talent that need development, the infrastructure and such hope and wish you the very best do good work." DON'T RUIN SPORTS @KigunduKenneth said, "I beg to differ.You almost ruined university education. For example, you failed to find a solution for the staff renumeration...you were always running away from the problem." "Madam CS stop lying about the TVET. You failed to provide capitation for each students thus forcing many of us to drop out. Your check list is kisiwa technical training college where poor students are not able to pay school fees drop out," @Evans28244801 said. @musadagane1 said, "The only achievement during your reign as Education CS is awarding grade Y to poor student from NEP." "And one big mistake you made at Education Madam CS, was to issue directives and policy statements and later rescind them. Kenyans are hard headed. Ukisema kitu, you "die with it". Read from the Matiang'i and Magoha books....be firm, you are the CS," @gikundi1 said. The CS hit the headlines for the wrong reasons after her attempts to oversee the ongoing curriculum changes in the education ministry. A day after announcing the postponement of the roll out of the new curriculum, the Education CS made an about turn after getting what sources said was a dressing down from the President. More on this: Amina changes tune, says new curriculum kicks off January Also read: Kenya not ready for new curriculum roll out - CS Amina