Kenya Sevens skipper Jacob Ojee will miss the Hong Kong and Singapore legs next month as he sits for his examinations at the United States International University (USIU). Ojee, who took the role in January to fill the vacancy left by Eden Agero — one of the senior players engaged in a contractual stand-off with Kenya Rugby Union —played at the Hamilton, Sydney, Las Vegas and Vancouver tournaments, scoring six tries. However, coach Paul Murunga noted that Ojee will be back for the final two legs of the series in London and Paris in May. "He has been one of our key players this season and will expect him back for the final two legs of the series,” said Murunga. Murunga added that forward  Herman Humwa, utility back Cyprian Kuto and half back Brian Wahinya have been ruled out of the next two legs owing to knee and hip injuries respectively and their places in the squad could be taken by Impala 's Mark Kwemoi and Eliakim Kichoi of Mwamba. South Africa-based Oscar Dennis jetted into the country on Monday from his Stellenbosch base to fight for a place in the 12-man squad which will do duty in Asia. Senior Kenya Sevens stars, led by former skipper Andrew Amonde, Jeff Oluoch, Augustine Lugonzo and Nelson Oyoo resumed training last week and Murunga said the quartet have impressed in training. "They have trained since last week Tuesday and have looked good. We still need to work on their conditioning because a good number of them have been playing 15s but I am happy they are back. They bring experience and we expect a good outing in Hong Kong and Singapore,” added Murunga. He added that they have received assurance from the newly elected chairman Oduor Gangla that things will look up soon as they seek to nail sponsorships. "The chairman attended our training session on Monday and assured us that the board is looking for sponsors to ensure that the team is well-taken care of for the final four legs of the circuit as well as the Olympic qualifiers later in the year," added Murunga. Shujaa lie 14th on the log with 18 points and are in a relegation dogfight alongside Wales and Japan. As per the rules, the side that finishes bottom of the 16-team series will be axed from the circuit.