Since we are a much-ethnicised country, I agree with the proposals by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission in their memorandum to the Building Bridges Task Force. We have to deal with the theory of tyranny of numbers that has characterised our elections lately, setting up conflicts that have held us back as a country. For instance, the proposal for a mixed member proportional (MMPR) system will help end the vicious competition as voter will only need two votes — one for as MP or governor, and one for a political party. In this case, MP seats will be filled by those who win elections and the other by party candidates based on the percentage of votes a party has received nationally. This will help us deal with the problems surrounding the census and registration of voters, which have been susceptible to manipulation by certain quarters keen on influencing the outcome of a vote. The impetus of MMPR is that it differs from parallel voting. There is a possibility that parties that receive a certain percentage of the vote may end up with the same percentage of the seats. This will mean that even if one party wins more seats, or say constituencies, than the other, the representation will still end up being balanced. MMPR has worked in many countries, the first being in Germany where it was used to elect representatives to the assembly. Countries such as Lesotho Romania and New Zealand have heavily borrowed from the system’s provisions. This particular system will enable the minority tribes to feel part of the country, as anyone can be President. With the current system, only the big five tribes can produce a President. For instance, in over 50 years we have been led by only two tribes, and still the current front-runners hail from those tribes. The post-election system has been and still is a system that brings tension to our country. Therefore, the IEBC is right in pushing for a system that will also go a long way in easing the pressure they are normally subjected to in their effort to deliver a transparent, accountable and credible election.  The political activist spoke to the Star Click here for the latest political news