The expulsion of Aisha Jumwa from the ODM has drawn mixed reactions in Malindi. Leaders and residents opposed to her leadership want a by-election to be declared quickly so that they can remove the MP for undermining and insulting the party. Those supporting her, however, are not worried about a by-election. They said Jumwa is still popular and will retain her seat if she vies on any party ticket. For weeks, both supporters and rivals have engaged in heated debates over the fate of the MP as they anxiously waited for the National Governing Council's verdict that was delivered on Friday. Jumwa's Msambweni counterpart Suleiman Dori, who was also facing disciplinary action, survived the axe. He has been asked to explain himself at a special meeting that will be called in 60 days by the party. Kakuyuni Ward MCA Nixon Mramba in Malindi and his Jilore colleague Daniel Chain Chiriba, who are former allies turned bitter rivals of Jumwa, celebrated her expulsion. Mramba thanked party leader Raila Odinga, governors Ali Hassan Joho (Mombasa) and Amason Kingi (Kilifi) for ensuring that the MP is dismissed for undermining the party. Jumwa's woes started last year after she openly declared her support for Deputy President William Ruto's 2022 presidential bid. Read: Aisha Jumwa officially expelled from ODM, Dori survives "Mama Aisha Jumwa we told you but you undermined us, you insulted us but we never gave up," Mramba said. He said ODM would win the seat if a by-election is called. "If she is strong, let her not go to court but come to the ground and prove her popularity," the MCA said. Jilore termed the day historic. The candidate who will be given the ODM mantle during the by-election will carry the day, he said. Jubilee's Phillip Charo, who has been silent since the election, called for calm in Malindi to avoid political tension which could affect business in the resort town that relies on tourism. Speaking in Malindi Charo said the decision by ODM is an internal affair and should not divide people. Asked if he will be in the race in case of a by-election, he said would contest the seat. "If IEBC declares the seat vacant I will contest and announce the party I will vie on," he said. Those opposed to Jumwa's dismissal said it is a sad for Malindi. Resident Rehema Ali, a loyal Jumwa supporter, wondered why ODM expelled her yet she sacrificed for the party. Click here for the latest political news