Premier class driver Eric Bengi in a Mitsubishi Lancer Evolution X zooms off first as the battle for the KCB Kenya National Rally Championship title returns to Kajiado County this weekend. More than 25 drivers will line up for the challenge in Sunday’s KCB Kajiado Rally which will start in Kajiado and conclude at the expansive Lisa Ranch in Konza. By zooming off first, Bengi is expected to sweep off the road for the rest of the entourage. He will be followed by defending champion Carl “Flash” Tundo in a Mitsubishi Evo X, ‘Flying Singh’ Baldev Chager and reigning African Champion Manvir Baryan, who recently won the season-opening ARC Rallye Bandama of Ivory Coast. Manvir is making a comeback after skipping the KCB Nakuru Rally. Tejveer Rai, co-driven by Zahir Shah in a Mitsubishi Lancer Evolution X R4 machine, lines up fifth. Meanwhile, Bengi has completed his pre-event performance test aboard the Group N Mitsubishi Lancer Evolution 10 he will pilot this weekend. The former 2WD champion will savour his second outing in the ex-Farhaaz Khan Evolution following his retirement in Nakuru. “The test run was very good but we have a few loose ends to deal with before the rally. All in all, I’m glad we’re now getting the feel of the car and we are optimistic in the run up to Kajiado. This year, we are running in the elite Premier Class meaning we shall drive sensibly fast and prepare meticulously,” Bengi said. Bengi was accompanied by his lady co-driver Tuta Mionki who exuded confidence after testing. “The test went well. We are still learning and adjusting to the new car and hopefully after a few events, we shall be done with teething problems,” said Tuta who is the 2018 Motorsport Personality of the Year. “We realised the car needs a lot of training to handle. It’s actually very different from our old Subaru and has much better control but needs seat time. It’s an interesting drive and I think it fits my driving style better. Despite exiting Nakuru, we still feel we can do better in the Evo than the Subaru. Our plan is to take baby steps and learn how to handle it then push for a podium,” Bengi explained, adding:”We had a good CS1 in Nakuru despite almost coming to a complete stop after being caught up in the very dusty section. We recorded the 4th fastest time on CS1. The car sits very well and is very quick out of the corners. We now look forward to the upcoming events but we will need a couple of practice rounds to help us understand the car better.” Scrutineering and reconnaissance (recce) will take place tomorrow at the KMSC Clubhouse in Nairobi’s South C and the route course respectively. Cars will then be flagged off from Kajaido KCB Branch on Sunday with the finish programmed for Lisa Ranch, Konza on the same day. Onkar Rai, who delivered an unprecedented hat-trick of wins on Nakuru Rally, leads the KNRC log with 25 points followed by defending KNRC Champion Carl “Flash” Tundo on 21 and former Champion Baldev Chager third on 18.