The government will terminate the Sh500 million contract for Nyandarua County Headquarters because the contractor has failed to deliver, Public Works PS Paul Maringa has said. The official said the work is still at the excavation stage, which violates the contractual agreement. “The only path left forward is termination of the contract,” he said on Wednesday. The contract for the four-storey building was awarded to High Point Agencies in 2017. It was expected to be complete by next month. The building was to have an underground car park and a helipad. The PS said once the contract is terminated, they will look for a competent contractor to finish the job by Christmas. Maringa spoke during a visit to the governor’s office to discuss the lack of progress at Ol Kalou. Maringa said last year he talked to Nyandarua Governor Francis Kimemia in Ol Kalou and the contractor was given a clear schedule. The bare minimum that was expected by next month, were two floors above ground — finished with tiles, toilets and all other fittings. Maringa said on January 25, the contractor was issued with default notice. The building is being funded by the national and Nyandarua governments. The county government will pay 30 per cent. Kimemia said the amount the county had factored into the budget last year was returned to the Treasury because it was not utilised. “It appears the house has been going downwards instead of upwards. We wonder if it is a mole hole,” he said. Kimemia said even the contract which was awarded to Don Woods Construction Company to tarmac Ol Kalou town roads should also be terminated. He said the contractor has also failed to deliver. The tarmacking was expected to be complete by December 2017. It was started in 2016. In December 2017 work manager Chris Wamugunda said the work would be completed by last June. He blamed rains and electric poles, which had not been transferred for the delay. Today barely half a kilometre are done. Kimemia said the two contractors have become a shame and their work is an eyesore.