The Nairobi County Public Service Board has distanced itself from bribery allegations and lacking due process. “How can we be accused of sabotage, yet we are helping the county to get more staff to address the deficit that has been existing?” board chairman Philip Kung’u asked during an interview with the Star on Monday. Kung’u said their work is fully documented and cannot be sabotaged. “We do our work based on request from the Executive.” Last week, the county assembly wanted the ongoing interviews to fill vacant medics’ slots stopped, saying the board was not fully constituted. Roysambu MCA Peter Warutere, who is the assembly’s Health team chairman, said the recruitment was marred with allegations of bribery. The board was also accused of laxity, leading to the stalling of recruitment of traffic marshals, inspectorate askaris, firefighters and ECDE teachers. Kung’u acknowledged that the board does not have all the seven members but interview for staff was an administrative function, which members can undertake. He said three board members had left. Chomba Munyi joined the National Gender and Equality Commission and Charity Kisutu left to become the vice chairperson of the Public Service Commission. Vesca Kagongo joined the executive, but she is no longer part of the Nairobi government. “We cannot stop a process which had started but we have some things which the board cannot access such as new financial commitments. “Towards the end of last year, we realised some members had left and contracts for some of us will soon be expiring. We approached the governor and an advert was done for the vacancy of the whole board. The application was closed on February 18, 2019,” Kung’u said. list ready He said the recruitment of traffic marshals and the rest had been completed and the list is ready. “Perhaps people have interest in the process and that is why there are attacks,” the board chair said. On the health workers’ slots, Kung’u said the process started in September last year and the shortlisted candidates picked for the interviews. The interviews have entered the second week, with 1,159 candidates shortlisted for medical positions. The positions to be filled are the assistant occupational therapist, medical laboratory technologist, orthopaedic technologists, registered clinical officers, medical officers and registered nursing officers (accident and emergency nurse). The others are five registered neonatal nurse, five registered specialist clinical officers, eight ophthalmologists, 15 paediatrics, 37 anaesthetics, 356 registered nursing officers, 127 nutrition and dietic technologists and 54 registered physiotherapists. Kung’u said once they are done with the interviews, the board will make their recommendations and pass them to the Executive. “The board has no personal interest but if we stop the interview process, Nairobi residents will suffer from shortage of health staff,” Kung’u said.