Two of seven suspects charged last week with defrauding businessman Naushad Merali of Sh10 million after mimicking President Uhuru Kenyatta say their lives are in danger. Joseph Waswa and Isaac Wajekeche yesterday said people suspected to be police were trailing them and menacing them. They accused them of having ulterior motives. The suspects are said to be part of an elaborate scheme involving police as well as people at State House. “A vehicle has been coming to my Karen home and parking outside the house every evening with unknown people suspected to be police,” Waswa told reporters in Nairobi yesterday. He was with Wajekeche and lawyer Cliff Ombeta. Waswa said it was unfortunate that he was being trailed when the case was already in court. The two were charged alongside Duncan Muchai, William Simiyu, David Kikuyu, Gilbert Kirunja and Antony Wafula. They were charged with conspiring to defraud Merali by pretending they were in a position to sell him a parcel of land in Milimani, Nairobi. They allegedly committed the offence between January 24 and February 1 at Prime Bank Riverside Drive in Nairobi. They were released on bail last week and ordered to visit the DCI every week. Read: Suspects want real Uhuru in court Waswa claimed a DCI officer called David Omore had been threatening to kill him. “Every one is presumed innocent until proven guilty so I’m surprised this officer is always threatening me with death. He’s been telling me that he has been employed by the state to kill,” Waswa said. Waswa said the officer was among police who arrested him and also led the raid at his Karen home. He said the officers looted the home. They took away Sh190,000 from his pregnant wife and Sh100,000 from him. Another Sh50,000 was stolen from Wajecheke and Sh47,000 from Simiyu. “We expected them to book the cash at the OB as part of our belongings but the officer refused and instead tortured us,” Waswa said. He demanded that justice be done. Waswa said Omore tortured him and the other suspects. He said he was immediately admitted to Karen Hospital upon release on bail. “One of my nerves is ruptured. It is very retrogressive that police have presumed the roles of court and can violate the law natural justice of being innocent until proven guilty.” The suspect accused officers from the DCI for taking away all his title deeds from his home. He said police went to houses he owns and harassed tenants. “The case before the court is conspiring to defraud so I wonder how forcefully taking my title deeds and car logbooks will help in investigations,” Waswa said. He called for professional investigations devoid of brutality, harassment and intimidation. Also Read: 'Fake President Uhuru' cons Nairobi businessman Sh80 million - Police Click here for the latest political stories.