President Uhuru Kenyatta’s legacy projects are not attainable, Parliament has concluded. The verdict is likely to leave his economic advisers racking their brains for answers. The President hopes to roll out four key programmes – Universal Healthcare, affordable housing, manufacturing and food security. But Parliament's Budget office warns that the government could have shot itself in the foot by overpromising in insufficiently budgeting for the Big Four. The Parliamentary Budget Office provides professional non-partisan advice on budget, finance and economics to the bicameral House and its committees. In its budget analysis report, the office says, “For example, the structure of allocations to the enablers has not shifted or increased significantly to reflect the change in policy.” In the report, the team says while there is an executive policy shift for the Big Four, the government’s spending priorities remain fairly the same as before the announcement of the projects. The experts say the government must restructure its spending priorities to be in tandem with the policy shift by channelling more resources into the delivery of the Big Four projects. “The allocations for the four policies should be clearly identified and isolated to allow for easy tracking, monitoring, and evaluation,” the office says. The team warns that the Treasury’s decision to increase the spending of the Big Four projects only marginally in the next financial year might hurt delivery of the programmes. Implementation of Uhuru’s legacy projects could be suffocated by meagre budget allocations, especially for the next financial year, when much of the spending is expected to be executed. According to the national Treasury, the Big Four-related expenditure in 2018-19 amounted to Sh42.6 billion or 2.4 per cent of the government’s budget. However, in 2019-20, the Treasury has proposed to increase the allocation by just Sh200 million, representing 2.3 per cent of the proposed budget. These resources, the Budget office says, are insufficient to drive the Big Four projects. MANUFACTURING The House economic experts say the decision by the government to reduce allocations for manufacturing in the next financial year from Sh2.9 billion to Sh629 million, shows the Jubilee administration's lack of commitment to the programmes. The resources will go towards reviving institutions such as Rivatex, supporting the leather industrial parks, textile development and modernisation of the New-KCC. “Though the limited resources to manufacturing could be partly due to the fact that the government has limited direct investment in this sector, it does not account for the more than 100 per cent contraction in planned spending,” the budget team says. With the government's reduced direct investment in the manufacturing sector, the team adds, the country would be forced to rely largely on the private sector for growth and expansion of the industry. AFFORDABLE HOUSING The experts poured cold water on the government’s proposed financing model of the housing project. It is aimed at delivering 500,000 affordable homes by 2022. Because the programme is capital-intensive, economists want the government to introduce a housing bond to help finance the affordable housing programme. “The government’s successful introduction of an infrastructure bond programme in Kenya may raise hope that a housing bond could as well become a success story,” the team says. If a housing bond is designed with appropriate terms and if supported by a credible implementation strategy for the housing plan, the team says, then it can easily serve as a robust way of financing the Big Four. Under the government’s proposed model, the private sector will play a key role through Public-Private Partnership, with employees contributing 1.5 per cent of their salaries to the National Housing Development Fund. UNIVERSAL HEALTHCARE The team wants the government to allocate an additional Sh3 billion in the 2019-20 budget to start establishing at least one additional referral hospital. The government allocated Sh21.3 billion this year and has proposed to increase the amount to Sh22.7 in the next spending year. “Given the 2018-19 budget allocation and the fact that some supportive projects such as the construction of referral hospitals and the roll-out of UHC across the entire country are yet to take shape, the sector has resource gaps, which need to be addressed,” the team says. The key supportive initiatives to support UHC envisaged by the government are: establishment of 10 referral hospitals, establishment of four new comprehensive cancer centres,  establishment of centres of excellence for kidney health and equipping 21 more hospitals with specialised equipment. For the effective delivery of the UHC, the parliamentary budget officer proposes that the government consolidates all the social programmes being enjoyed by Kenyans under the health sector before the roll-out. The government has in the past rolled out various social programs through resource allocation such as insurance for the elderly and the poor, the Linda Mama Programme as well as the scrapping of user fees in health facilities. These were essentially the initial steps towards the UHC goal. “If these social programmes continue to exist independently of the UHC programme, there are chances of duplication," the budget team says. To ensure various economic sectors benefit through the provision of requisite and missing skills, the budget office wants the government to roll out the Competency-Based Curriculum (CBC) as a long-term solution. The CBC, whose roll-out has faced various challenges, is designed to address the skills gaps in the economy. It is expected to play a key role in the Big Four delivery.  FOOD SECURITY Experts want the government to change tack in its approach to spur growth, enhance income generation, foreign exchange earnings and employment. The team says the government has not been successful in realising its goals, since its interventions in key strategic areas have largely been non-responsive due to poor implementation strategies. The government strategy has largely been on expanding irrigation schemes, increasing access to agricultural input, implementing programmes to support smallholder farmers, fishing and pastoralist communities to produce and market their commodities. As a lasting solution, the team says, the government must come up with an Integrated Farmer Management System to provide a database of all farmers. This would eliminate middlemen benefitting from the failed subsidised fertilisers programme and the purchase of maize for the Strategic Grain Reserve. “The system will also ensure traceability and assess the productivity of the subsidy,” the Budget office says. The office wants the government to manage food contamination and other forms of post-harvest losses through the acquisition of modern storage facilities.