A protocol director with one of Nyanza counties is on the spot over corruption allegations. The man, better known as “photogenic”, colludes with two hotel managers to ensure county VIPs are accommodated at the facilities for kickbacks. Hoteliers said the man blocked them from getting business fairly as he demands kickbacks after quoting high booking rates. They say that for him to refer the guests to a hotel, one must accept his own quotation to enable him to get his share. Sources at the county said the man is notorious for dubious deals in every government department he has worked with. The officer has been accused of secretly recording a deputy governor’s conversations in bars to set him up against the governor. This has caused animosity between the governor and his deputy.  A controversial governor from Mt Kenya region is the talk of the town. He has shocked his constituents by his level of investments in the short time he has been in office. The man has put up a multi-million-shilling building in the heart of a town in Central. He has also bought several rental houses in Nairobi. The governor is said to have registered the properties in the name of a chief officer in his government. In a recent meeting at a popular joint with a top Jubilee official, the county boss was overhead asking the official to urge President Uhuru Kenyatta to go slow on the fight against graft. Could the county boss be using public money to enrich himself? Well. The DCI could as well move in.  JUST what is the economic sense of the ongoing devolution conference? Before you answer this million dollar question, wait until you are told of the delegates attending the sixth annual event. Some of the governors and speakers have been accompanied by huge delegations, including support staff. One such governor from Western Kenya is accompanied by an extended delegation, including his wife and two mistresses. The randy governor has booked two other separate rooms in Embu town for side chicks, while he is putting up with the wife at the official hotel for county chiefs. The governor has been sneaking out to Embu at night driving alone to see the two girls.  PANIC has gripped some Kisii and Nyamira politicians said to have benefited from the controversial Sh4.5 billion Bunyunyu dam. After details emerged the DCI is probing what may turn out to be an earthshaking scandal, the politicians, including MPs who have been quiet on the project, are worried. It is alleged some money was dished out to them and a section of top officials from the two counties to hastily support the project. Despite there being no evidence of public participation and protestations from locals, the project was pushed down their throats.