Under the Constitution, the ultimate responsibility for protecting public funds collectively and individually lies with the President, the Treasury CS and Parliament. The Constitution sets out principles of public finance in Article 201. They include openness, accountability and public participation in financial matters as well as responsible use of public resources, responsible financial management and clear fiscal reporting. Under Article 211 Parliament must enact legislation to prescribe terms under which the national government may borrow and imposes reporting requirements. Further, Article 225 (1) enjoins Parliament to enact legislation to ensure both expenditure control and transparency in both governments and establish a mechanism for implementation. Section 12 of the Public Finance Management Act gives five critical functions to the Treasury, headed by CS Henry Rotich. First: formulate, implement and monitor macro-economic policies involving expenditure and revenue. Second: mobilise domestic and external resources for financing national and county budgetary requirements. Third: promote transparency, effective management and accountability for public finances in the national government. Fourth: monitor management of finances of public enterprises and investments by the national government. Fifth: monitor the financial performance of state corporations. Following the financing scandal involving the Arror and Kimwarer Multipurpose dams, there are good reasons to wonder whether any organs and institutions mandated to protect public funds and ensure proper use of it are doing their jobs. The Jubilee-dominated Parliament is politically incapable of checking financial shenanigans by the Executive. Most worryingly, we do not seem to have more than 10 MPs with capacity and skills to do the job the Constitution expects of them. This means that if either or both the President and the Treasury CS decide to go rogue or become outright thieves, sooner or later it may turn out that the mega dams scandal is only a tip of the stinking iceberg. Reading Treasury's press release on financing the Arror and Kimwarer multi-purpose projects caused me anger and sadness. While acknowledging that Treasury is the custodian of public finances, its clear objective is to pretend all is well and basically claim the Arror and Kimwarer projects are as transparent or corrupt as other mega dam projects like Thiba, Thwake, Mwache, Karimenu II, Bosco and Bunyunyu. I hope Treasury is not effectively telling Kenyans that it has been sanctioning payments of public funds for projects that have neither been designed nor bills of quantities prepared for because in my book that would amount to treasonous use of public funds. For the moment the country needs to have an honest conversation about the purpose, value and priority of all these mega dams projects planned or implemented under Engineering, Procurement and Construction plus Financing (EPC+F) arrangements that seemingly permit state entities’ chiefs to mortgage public funds and sign away Kenya’s financial sovereignty for 30 pieces of silver. Tragically, the mega dams schemes are not half as clever as Kamlesh Pattni’s Goldenberg schemes; this looks like plain theft akin to robbery under police escort. To be sure, when the press release boldly states that the ministry “was involved after the process of project identification, prioritisation and procurement was completed by the then line ministry and the implementing agency KVDA”, we must wonder whether CS Rotich and his principal assistants are working in accordance with the law. Since this is a matter under investigation I would rather the law enforcement agencies reveal exactly what is happening and why. As a keen student of geography I used to know that Kenya has five major rivers: Tana, Athi, Sondu, Yala and Nzoia and biggish rivers such as Thiba, Chania, Mara, Uaso Nyiro and Turkwell. These were the rivers where dams of varying sizes could be constructed and until Jubilee came to power few Kenyans knew that dams can actually be built on every other small river and seasonal stream in all 47 counties. Equally interesting is that the cost of these dams and viability depends on who the financier is. For- example, Thiba multi-purpose dam is on a permanent river and will cost Sh8 billion shillings. It is being financed by Japan, while the Arror dam to be constructed on what seems a semi-permanent river will cost Sh38 billion precisely because of the EPC+F arrangements and the Italian connection. Fighting corruption requires punishing the corrupt and preventing new corruption. Since there is such a thing as attempted robbery there must be such a thing as attempted corruption. The starting point is for the government to objectively tell us whether Kenyan rivers have been expanding despite global warming and to inform Kenyans what types of dams and damlets can be built, if at all, on Kenya’s rivulets and streams.