The alleged mistress of Joseph Kori, Judy Wangui, and taxi driver Michael Mathenge yesterday were charged in a Kiambu court with the murder of businesswoman Mary Wambui. The two denied the charge before High Court judge Justice Christine Meoli. She ordered them remanded until March 18, pending the hearing of their bail application. The hearing of the main case was fixed for October 7 and 8. The prosecution alleges that on January 26 at Fourways Junction in Kiambu county, Wangui and Mathenge, jointly with others not before court, murdered Kori’s wife Wambui. Kori has since been released from Gigiri police station after detectives found no evidence linking him to the murder. He had spent three weeks in detention, while being interrogated by DCI homicide detectives from the Serious Crimes Unit. Investigating officer Inspector John Wahome had earlier told the court they have already preferred a murder charge against Wangui and Mathenge after they found evidence linking them with Wambui’s murder. She was reported missing on January 26 and her body found the following day in Juja. She had allegedly left her Safari Park Gardens house for Kahawa Sukari, where she owned a hardware store. Police reports had indicated she had suffered a deep wound to the head inflicted with a blunt object. Her hands were bruised. The police recovered a Mercedes Benz believed to have been used to dispose of her body. The mother of two lived with her husband in their Garden Estate home in Nairobi. SAVED BY TEXT MESSAGE After forensic investigations, detectives were convinced Kori was not involved in either the planning or execution of the murder. They also analysed his phone communication to establish whether he was connected to the murder. Police believe Wambui died following a fistfight with Wangui, whom she accused of having an affair with her husband Investigators said forensic analysis of Kori’s mobile phone on the day of the murder showed that he was in Ngong, Kajiado county. Kori told them he was with friends. What caught the investigator’s eye was a text message Kori sent his wife that day. Wambui was not at home when Kori arrived at around 10pm. He is said to have sent a text message to Wambui’s telling her to spend the night where she was. The text message would later turn out to be useful in the investigation.