Deputy President William Ruto has accused ODM leader Raila Odinga of lying over a car gift handed to the Kisumu Archbishop. Ruto presented the brand new Mitsubishi Pajero to Kisumu Catholic Archbishop Philip Anyolo during his installation in January. Speaking on Saturday, Raila questioned the source of the money used to buy the car donated by Ruto, saying that church rejected the vehicle “since it was bought using dirty money”. But Ruto on Sunday lashed at Raila saying that he (Raila) was a 'master of deceit who always spewed desperate lies'. "...the car gift was bought by Christian leaders including UK (Uhuru Kenyatta) and myself at the request of the chair of Catholic MPs. Understandably, empowering the church offends magicians and the evil spirits they worship. Shetani ashindwe," Ruto said. His remarks attracted bitterness from Kenyans who hit back at him over the issue. "Using the church as a cover up and calling others names is your fall back plan. Boss you have been outed," @nasriky said. @felix_tiengo1 said, "Sin is sin. Whether you give corrupt proceeds or visit magicians. Dhambi zote zinatoshana." "That's outright bribery to men of the cloth to buy their silence during atrocities to Kenyans. We need church leaders like Elijah, Elisha," @EkonyaMByrum said. @Specialone20011 said, "I told my friends some weeks ago and I will say it again here. If William Ruto takes over in 2022, people will be prosecuted for attempting to fight corruption." Also read: [PHOTOS] Raila, Ruto attend Archbishop Philip Anyolo's installation "Boss how many "Empowerments" are being questioned like yours," @mogedy saud. @janujames34 said " Donations Donations Donations. That's the politics you've been peddling for the last seven years. Since when will you create a platform for everyone's self-sustainability?" He added, "This the kind of leadership that will definitely take us to the drain. Leadership of hand out mentality." "From you, we have learned what it means to steal from the coffers of the state and hide in the house of the Lord. We have learned the value of why it's important to separate Church and State," @kot_hacker said. He added, "We have learned the importance of having one witch than being surrounded by 10 priests." @Rodgie_ said, "Somebody is hiding behind the church to point the specks of others while he has a log in both eyes..shame on you...shame.' "So low. Why can't you go high when they go low? Hurling insults on a Sunday morning tells how troubled you are. We expect such to come from you in a podium," @Douglasorangi said. @Wyld_Chyld said "Haha haha empowering the Catholic church with a car? They can buy you and your whole portfolio." "As long as you did good it will stand no desperate lie will undo it............shetani ashindwe," @ombevakevmudi said. Anyolo donated the Sh4 million vehicle he was gifted by the Deputy President. It emerged on Saturday that Anyolo ordered that the vehicle be channelled to another institution. Staff at the Kisumu Parish where Anyolo stays, say they have never saw Ruto's gift within the premises. Click here for the latest political news