Many Kenyans have fallen prey to dubious property brokers or property owners, which has led to loss of money and never-ending court cases. This has been the norm in Kiambu county, where one property can have more than 10 brokers selling it, and the buyer gets conned or has to pay exorbitantly for it. For instance, there are many signboards of land for sale or house for sale on Kiambu Road or Thika superhighway or the Nairobi-Limuru-Nakuru highway. A buyer contacts the number on the signboard only to find out it is not the owner's number but brokers, who in turn refer to another broker and so on. The property being sold becomes hard to buy because of the commissions being charged. In turn, property buyers and investors have shied away from contacting the numbers on signboards, which makes the properties on sale stay a long time, probably years, without being sold. It is said the owners of the properties in most cases have no information or knowledge of how to dispose of the property professionally, hence being taken advantage of by dubious brokers they contact to make the sale for them. The Star spoke to Hyssop Properties CEO Naftali Mwangi, who opened a fourth branch of the company in Kiambu town this year. Mwangi said the land being sold or property prices are inflated by dubious brokers, but if you deal with professional brokers, they sell according to what the owner wants, reducing costs. "The owner of a property approaches a professional broker whom they sign a brokerage deal with all the legal logistics involved," Mwangi said. "This will make a customer feel safe while buying and also the owner is satisfied. This I know will not go well with the crooked brokers out there, but this is the way to handle business where everybody gets to be satisfied." He said the Kiambu government plans to register all brokers to mitigate against fraud that it estimates at Sh3 billion annually. “We are going to register all of them. We want to be aware of your office, the deals you are in, whether those properties you are offering in the market are genuine,” Mwangi said. "We will feed the information on an e-platform. We will be demanding an updated list of properties they are placing in the market and before any transaction gets through, we will be giving the go-ahead and assume the role of final authority on their authenticity." However, the Kiambu government increased land rates by up to 300 per cent for homeowners, and will start levying holders of agricultural land, dealing a blow to real estate developers. Standalone homes will pay between Sh5 and Sh12 per square metre annually, depending on location, up from a range of Sh2 and Sh3 — representing a threefold growth on the upper band. Rental apartment owners will pay between Sh10 and Sh12 from Sh8, reflecting a rise of up to 35 per cent. Industries will pay Sh10 from Sh8, while owners of commercial buildings and flats have been spared a rise and will continue paying Sh15 per square metre. Owners of agricultural land will also start paying rates on their holdings, with those owning less than five acres parting with Sh2,000 per acre. Those holding at least 20 acres will pay Sh800 annually. The county government also introduced a new flat rate on agricultural land at Sh2,000 per acre for those with less than five acres of land. Large landowners will pay Sh800 per acre for areas below 20 acres, in the new rates that have hit small landowners hard.