Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho on Sunday resurfaced after a month-long absence and denounced detractors who dismissed him as an under-performer. Joho’s targets were Kisauni MP Ali Mbogo and some MCAs he accused of painting his administration in a bad light to hurt his 2022 presidential bid. He warned MCAs that he will mobilise residents to send them home before their terms end. “Kisauni is where I started my political journey. We are ready to go back to fresh polls if your MP and MCAs are not serving you well. I will mobilise for the necessary signatures to send all of them home.” The governor told Kisauni residents that they made a mistake by not reelecting Rashid Bedzimba. “I voted for Bedzimba and will vote for him in the next polls because the current MP has failed,” Joho said. Bedzimba has since his defeat by Mbogo been the governor’s political adviser. Joho instructed officials such as county secretary Francis Thoya, subcounty and ward administrators to consult Bedzimba before initiating development projects in Kisauni. However, Mbogo rubbished the governor’s threat to dissolve the county assembly as the constitutional powers to recall MPs or MCAs lie with the electorate. He, through his social media accounts, scoffed at Joho’s endorsement of Bedzimba as “desperate”. “Yesterday, the same loser wanted to scuttle our bursary exercise but he failed. He was warned by his bosses not to attempt the move. That is the level of desperation they are in at the moment,” Mbogo posted. The MP told Bedzimba to stop hanging on Joho’s coattails to redeem his political stature. Joho, who is the ODM deputy party leader, spoke at Mtopanga in Kisauni during the opening of the upgraded 1.3km Mtopanga access road. He was accompanied by Likoni MP Mishi Mboko, her Changamwe counterpart Omar Mwinyi and others. Mwinyi and Mboko defended Joho’s administration against accusations of under-performance. “Stop threatening county executives with impeachment.That is creating a bad image of our county and our governor. Intimidating the executives is like sabotaging the governor who appointed them,” Mboko said. During the Sunday function, the governor asked Mwinyi to “name any road that he wants upgraded in his constituency and works will begin within a week.” Muslims for Human Rights (Muhuri) termed the promise unfortunate, calling it a continuation of what Joho did in the run-up to the 2017 General Elections when funds were channelled to political projects. Audit records Muhuri official Rahma Gulam said audit records indicate that the county spent Sh550 million on impromptu road projects that were not budgeted for and contrary to the provisions of the Public Finance Management Act 2012. The Act requires that county governments prepare annual development plans as development blueprints in any given financial year. Joho’s critics accuse him of favouritism in allocating resources for infrastructural projects. Gulam said such a casual approach alienated deserving areas. Joho, Mboko and Mwinyi also called on President Uhuru Kenyatta to order the seizing of corrupt individuals’ bank accounts and channel the money to development. They criticised DP William Ruto for his recent explanation of the variance of the amount of money lost at Kerio Valley Development Authority. “It is a shame for the DP to mention Sh7 billion as if it is loose change. That is a colossal amount of money and Kenyans want a clear explanation of what went wrong with the dam projects,” Joho said. He said it was wrong for top leaders to be seen to be defending corruption when many citizens are living in misery for lack of opportunities.