A family is crying for justice of their son who was lynched by a mob on Monday evening in Kibera after being accused of stealing a motorcycle. Abbass Mohammed was attacked with a machete by a boda boda rider from Silanga in a grudge which is said to have been going on since last year. According to residents the slain tried calling for help from his friends but it all went futile. “The boda boda rider called out on residents shouting that he was a thief and that was when the mob justice came and lynched and left him for dead,” a resident said. This comes after the Nubian rights forum and its council of elders issued complaints on extrajudicial killings and harassment from the republic. On February 11, Jaffar Salim was stabbed to death by his fellow youth in a love triangle. The case is still in process of investigation but no action has been undertaken by the police to date. In December last year 23 year old varsity student Calton Maina was gunned down in Kibera by police officers who claimed he was gangster. Nubian council of elders Chairman Abdul Faraj denied reports issued by the police that he was a thief. “Mohammed was a role model to young people. I am not here to cover up for wrong doing. It is regrettable that a police boss of this area saying that the boy was killed in a robbery mission,” he lamented. Mohammed succumbed to deep cuts at the back of his head and excessive bleeding in Kenyatta National Hospital. Mohammed is survived by his brother, Ali Mohammed, a student at Zetech University, Ruiru and parents. His father Weni Mohammed, who works in Saudi Arabia arrived yesterday afternoon after learning about the death of his first born son. He was an employee at Alata shop in Junction mall along Ngong road until he met his death. His bereaved mother Fatuma Kassed was shocked after she heard what his son was being accused of. “My son and I were very close. On Sunday afternoon Abbass called me and told me that he misses me. He told me that he would pass by his grandmothers house in the evening and attend our weekly meeting,” she said. She added: “When I noticed that Abbass has not yet arrived I asked my brother why has not yet showed up. My brother found his room opened . That was when my brother received a called that he was being beaten,” He is remembered by his family and friends as a jovial and social person.