The central city
of Galkaayo is fast becoming the rape and murder capital of Somalia following a
recent gruesome murder and rape incident of a 12-year-old schoolgirl Aisha
Ilyas by seven shameless men Galkaayo is the
only city in Somalia with two mayors and it divides the federal states of
Puntland in the north and Galmudug to the South. This sad incident happened in
the north Puntland side. Puntland side
mayor of Galkaayo Yasin Abdisamad Cumar said the case came in the wake of
another three rape cases of women in the same city, and the murder of for men
in February alone. Puntland President Sicid Deni condemned the murder and rape
of the teen and ordered security forces to bring to justice the perpetrators who
are still at large. Somalis from
across the globe have strongly condemned and were moved by the heinous act.
Women in Galkaayo took to the streets to protest against what they termed as
increasing murder and rape of girls and women, with no perpetrator arrested or
jailed.  RAPE AND
MUTILATION What shook
people even more was how the seven men killed the girl after raping her. They
allegedly first raped her in tandem and then went ahead to mutilate her body by
gouging out an eye, cutting off an ear and worse, slicing off her genitalia.
They then stabbed her severally. This was not an ordinary murder: It sounds
like a sacrificial rite. This sad news is
the talk of the week amongst Somalis inside and outside the country. Online,
the sad news is being condemned on Twitter under the trending hashtag
#Justice4Aisha. A look at the
Tweets shared under the hashtag #Justice4Aisha shows anger and disappointment
from Somalis. One woman threatened to go and shoot all men in Galkaayo because
they behave like "animals". Another man described the incident as
"appalling, horrific and atrocious act of indecency" Rape cases are
on the rise in Somalia.  It is a silent problem hugely affecting many
women and girls and is rarely highlighted by the media, mainly because female
victims fear speaking it out due to stigma. Girl victims are
made to believe they will not get married in life if they consent to have been
raped and the incident is publicised. Even the girl's parents have the same
mentality to protect their daughters from the shame associated with rape. This
is one of the main reasons why rapists walk scot-free because they are not
prosecuted. Another problem
blamed for the increased rape cases is the mediation role played by tradition
elders. Rape cases are rarely prosecuted as the two families from the victim
and perpetrator often agree to settle the matter outside the courts.  During those
discussions, blood money is paid to the victim’s family with a share of the
same proceeds also going to the elders as sitting allowance. No wonder elders
often troop into a police station whenever they hear a suspected rapist has
been arrested to release him because the matter will be settled their way. All these
traditional taboos end up empowering rapists and killers because
psychologically, they know the community or close family members will come to
their rescue. This could actually be the reason rape and murder cases are the
single biggest crimes in Somalia and continue unabated.  PROSECUTE
RAPISTS, MURDERERS But why is rape
suddenly so high in Galkaayo or other Somali cities? We have to go back and see
how the matter was addressed and why it was a rare act in the past. Somalis were traditionally
very reserved people. Rape was a very shameful act and very rare because people
observed and respected traditional norms. Just like its encouraged by Islam,
men and women were not allowed to freely mingle to reduce contact and the
opposite sex appeal or urge, which is natural as human beings. Urbanisation,
pressure from foreign cultures imported from across the globe where Somalis
live, increased drugs abuse and technological advances such as the world wide
web or internet full of porn sites, is also blamed for the new weird gang
because they are either high or simply think its cool and normal. The northern regions
have the fewest cases of rape compared to the south because they still hold
into their old cultures. The government
needs to enforce prosecution of rape cases to put rapists behind bars and defy
the so-called elders accused of abating these heinous crimes by encouraging out-of-court
settlements. Somalis must also cooperate with authorities and drop old taboos
protecting rapists so as to bring them to justice. As for murders
who are found guilty, we should continue to treat them as required by Sharia
law, kill them too.  This way, such crimes will reduce, because
perpetrators will know they will face the full wrath of the law if they kill
another person. Talk of an eye for an eye.    