In what capacity is Gatundu South MP MP welcoming delegates to the 6th Devolution Conference in Kirinyaga County? This is the question Corridors had five Central Kenya MPs asking themselves over the weekend. The controversial Moses Kuria has mounted huge billboards with his picture in strategic locations from Nairobi to Kirinyaga, welcoming participants to the special meeting which starts today and will run for the next five days. The MPs were left wondering what Kuria was up to with those expensive billboards when he is not a member of the Council of Governors or his constituency is not in the host county. A prominent Nairobi MP has become the talk of town. Reason? The man who lives large and runs a chain of restaurants has shocked both friends and foes. Its reported that he rents houses, but barely lives in them for 6 months. The man is reportedly on the run from several landlords in Lavington who want him to pay rents that are in arrears. Recently he moved out of a house in Lavington and refused to pay. Corridors has it that he recently went to request for money from an MD in a parastatal in the transport ministry claiming he has not paid school fees for his daughter who is in an international school. Shocked, the MD told him to style up and pay the "small bills" to avoid embarasment There is growing concern from city motorist over the manner in which traffic police officers manning the University Way/Uhuru Highway roundabout are executing their work. On several occasions they block the vehicles exiting the town using University Way for as long as 10 minutes which at times forces motorist to hoot in exasperation. Those going to work in the morning have found themselves running late and are asking the traffic boss at Central Police Station to address this and ensure all routes are given equal time. Is the raging fire in Mount Kenya caused by arsonists? A small bird has whispered to the corridors that there is more to the raging fire than meets the eye. The fire, which is always started during the late hours of the day, has destroyed more than 90,000 hectares. Interestingly, Kenya Forest Service, an agency whose core function is to conserve, protect and manage all public forests, is poorly equipped to effectively contain such emergencies. KFS rangers could be seen fighting the inferno with twigs and spades. This compelled other institutions such as Kenya Defence Forces, Community Forest Association (CFA), Kenya Wild Service (KWS) officers, and other organizations to join the campaign. Click here for the latest political stories.