ODM party leader Raila Odinga has bashed DP William Ruto over his remarks on the Arror, Kimwarer dams scandal. Ruto during an event on Thursday denied reports that the Sh21 billion allocated to the dams had vanished. "You' have heard that the government has lost about Sh21 billion which is a flat lie! The money in question is about Sh7 billion, and for every coin that has been paid, we have a bank guarantee," he said. More on this: Flat lie? DP Ruto denies loss of Sh21 billion in dams scandal But Raila speaking during a meeting with ODM members on Friday, said nobody is above the law in the fight against corruption. "Nobody is above the law. If somebody is stealing money, do not go and shout there that ooh Sh7 billion is nothing," he said. Raila added, "Sh7b is not pocket change! Sio pesa ya kununua mandazi halafu wanaenda pande hii wanasema ooh sisi ni wakulima.. akitoka pale ooh mimi ni mfugaji.. yeye nikama popo." An aide to Ruto was roped into the multi-billion dam scandal which is under active investigations by Kenyan authorities. Ken Osinde is on the DCI radar after a company he is associated with is suspected to have played a role in the multi-billion tenders for construction of Kimwarer and Arror dams in Elgeyo Marakwet county. More on this: Ruto aide linked to Sh21 billion dam scandal Also read: Kinoti summons big names in dams probe Raila, who is also an AU envoy, said Kenyans should make life difficult for corrupt individuals. "These people are bold, reckless, contemptuous but we must stand firm and show them that Kenya is more important than anyone. We should tell them that a crime is a crime and a criminal is a criminal," he said. "People should be prepared to carry their own cross. When you are stealing you don't tell people that I have stolen money come we share... you only eat with your wife.. A criminal is a criminal." Raila asked his party members to stand firm against corruption adding that to be in a good position as a country, Kenyans must be organised. "We must take lead in making life difficult from purveyors of corruption...the party must move with speed to administer these issues. Our party must sensitise people across the country to detect, name and shame those involved in corruption," he said. Uhuru on Thursday said the Judiciary is not immune to the temptations of corruption and its officers must guard against criminals out to exploit court processes to escape the consequences of their economic crimes. The President said brokerage of justice has left many Kenyans broken and suffering and their businesses, health and lives destroyed through impunity. He said there are known culprits who exploit the court processes and judgements to escape from the consequences of their economic crimes against the people of Kenya. More on this: Judiciary not immune to snare of corruption - Uhuru Read: Judiciary to change tack in fighting corruption Click here for the latest political news