ALPHONCE MUNG'AHU   8/3/2019 A man was on Thursday charged with murdering his wife Beryl Ouma at Kahawa Sukari in Nairobi county. The accused Lyko Osuri  who appeared before Kiambu Kiambu high court judge Christine Meole denied murder charge leveled against him by the state. He pleaded to the charge after being declared fit to stand trial by a doctor at Mathera mental hospital where he was taken to be examined before answering to the murder charge. Earlier chief magistrate Patricia Gichohi had granted had 13 days to be detained at Kasarani police station following a request by the investigating officer to conclude their investigations before  charging him with killing his wife during a domestic squabble on February 21,2019 at Kahawa west Sukari in Nairobi county. Beryl, a 28-year-old and also a doughter of a former senior chief Douglas Ouma is said to have been  killed in their house in Kahawa Sukari after hours of beating before her body was taken to Neema Uhai hospital in the area. Earlier the neighbours  said she was screaming so loudly and painfully asking her husband to stop beating her, it was late at night. “We banged the door in an attempt to open it but it was locked from inside. When one of us asked what was happening, the lady who was screaming responded saying they’ll talk”. The neighbour said the screaming continued for a short time before it suddenly stopped. “We assumed that they had stopped fighting and so we went on with our business,” the neighbour said. Beryl’s father Ouma  had said that his daughter sent him three messages asking him to call her back at around 4am, but when he called back after some time, the calls went unanswered. “I didn’t see the texts immediately, but when I called back, she did not pick. A few minutes later, her husband called to say they had an altercation,” Ouma said. The husband informed his father-in law that he had just taken Beryl to a nearby hospital for treatment but records indicated that she was brought in dead. Beryl’s brother Mark Ouma said police insisted on taking the body to City Mortuary, but the family blocked them fearing it was a plot to cover up the murder. “We will transfer the body to a funeral home of our choice and not a mortuary where the many interested parties can easily interfere with the autopsy,” Mark said. Beryl, a clinical officer, and Lyko wedded in 2017. They have been living together since the latter returned from Qatar, where he had been working. She had had two miscarriages, with the last one about two weeks ago. It is said that the marriage seemed on the rocks; the family said the two had many wrangles some which they failed to solve. “Her husband is a very violent man and even last year in December, we had a family meeting to solve it. Clearly, he never stopped,” Mark said. Ruiru police  had confirmed the incident, saying the accused regretted having assaulted his wife, and said he did not know it would lead to her death. Police said Lyko claimed to have used a belt to beat his wife.  ENDS