Five Jubilee legislators from Elgeyo Marakwet county have accused President Uhuru Kenyatta of targeting the Kalenjin community in the ongoing war on graft in a bid to stop Deputy President William Ruto from succeeding him in 2022. They are Marakwet East MP Kangogo Bowen, Keiyo South's Daniel Rono, Marakwet West's William Kisang, Woman Representative Jane Chebaibai and county assembly speaker Phillemon Sabulei. They spoke in Eldoret on Saturday. The legislators, along with 30 MCAs, said Uhuru has shown he does not want to back Ruto. "This is politics and we won't entertain tricks. If Uhuru does not want Ruto, let him not sacrifice Kalenjins. Let him engage Ruto on his own," Bowen said. Read: Ruto aide linked to Sh21bn dam scandal He claimed the ongoing investigations into the Arror and Kimwarer dam scandals were political. He said Finance CS Henry Rotich was being targeted because he is a Kalenjin from Ruto's community. The MPs questioned why Rotich had been grilled by the DCI for four consecutive days concerning the Arror and Kimwarer projects, yet he had signed off for the construction of more than 22 dams in the country on behalf of the government. Kisang said, "Let him back (AU envoy) Raila (Odinga) in 2022 or anyone else, but he should know that the people of Kenya will decide." He said former President Daniel Moi had endorsed Uhuru for President in 2002, but he did not make it and that it won't be automatic that the President's choice will win in 2022. The MPs said they are not opposed to investigations into graft cases, but they should not be driven by interests in 2022 politics. Kisang said the handshake between Uhuru and Raila was being used to marginalise the Kalenjin. "They are talking of building bridges for peace and unity while at the same time demolishing bridges to stop some people in 2022," he said. Chebaibai said the dams were to be used to help end the problem of insecurity in Kerio Valley. Sabulei said the same Investigations should be extended to other projects including dams in the President's backyard of Central region. Also Read: Rotich grilled over dam scandal Click here for the latest political news