Samburu Governor Moses Lenolkulai suffered a setback yesterday after the court blocked him from transferring, disposing or dealing with four properties in Karen. Anti-corruption court judge John Onyiego issued the six-month order after the EACC sued to bar the governor from dealing in the properties. The anti-graft agency wants to complete investigations before instituting recovery proceedings. In an affidavit by Joel Khisa,the commission told court that investigations are likely to take some time and the property should not be interfered with. On February 20, EACC detectives raided the Nairobi and Samburu residences of Governor Lenolkulai over an alleged Sh2 billion fraud. The EACC says that on July 8, 2015, the governor paid Sh15 million for each of the four properties in Karen. The commission also informed the court that preliminary investigations show Oryx Service Station is a company associated with the governor. ILLICIT PROCEEDS “The commission has established Oryx Service Station was awarded a contract to supply diesel and Petrol to the said [Samburu]county for 2014-2019,” the application reads. EACC investigations revealed the governor, through that company,received more than Sh80.7 million in payments from the county. “It is reasonably suspected that proceeds of the Contract which are public funds may have been used by the governor to purchase the lands properties and to accumulate substantial property in illicit wealth which is amenable to forfeiture to the state,” the commission said. The EACC wants to ensure the governor does not dispose of or in any way deal with the properties to defeat the course of justice before investigations are complete and civil proceedings started. Khisa said a colossal amount of assets and funds are involved and investigations of many transactions and possible illegal acts or offences involved take time. The commission is also investigating allegations of corruption and economic crimes, bribery, conflict of interest among contractors and officials of the Samburu government. The court heard that an alleged Sh1.6 billion was embezzled between January 1, 2013, and December 31, 2018. “The commission is investigating allegations that between 2013 and 2018, a number of companies that tendered or were awarded high-value contracts by the county government to deliver goods and services are associated with or owned by employees, thereby resulting in Sh673 million being paid...” he said.