The DPP yesterday urged the court to admit a suspect’s confession — which he later claimed was coerced — as evidence in the murder case of rights lawyer Willie Kimani. Prosecutor Nicholas Mutuku put up a spirited fight following police informer Peter Ngugi’s claim that he was forced to confess and didn’t know what he was signing. Ngugi has been charged with the murder, alongside AP officers Fredrick Leliman, Leonard Maina, Stephen Chebulet and Sylvia Wanjiku. Kimani, his client Josephat Mwenda and taxi driver Joseph Muiruri were kidnapped, tortured and killed. Their bodies were dumped in a river and discovered on July 1, 2016. Client Mwenda had refused to drop a police brutality complaint. The three went missing after Kimani filed a case against a police officer on behalf of the client. Yesterday, the prosecution made final submissions. Mutuku tried to paint Ngugi as a liar, saying he willingly gave testimony to the police. He told Justice Jessie Lessit that officer Geoffrey Kinyua, who recorded the confession, complied with the Evidence Act and the evidence rules of 2009. The court heard that Ngugi was informed of his rights before he recorded statements. The rules say that when an accused person confides to police that he wishes to confess, the recording officer is to ensure he reveals his preferred language and has a free in case he does not speak English or Kiswahili. The accused must not be subjected to any coercion or threats and must be informed of his right to have a lawyer of his choice. The prosecution questioned why Ngugi, despite nominating his brother John Kamau, did not call him to substantiate his claims of being forced to sign. “Kamau is the best placed person to confirm and give credence to Ngugi’s allegations. Failure to call him was fatal,” Mutuku said. He also dismissed Ngugi’s allegation that he was tortured, saying there was no evidence to show that. “We submit that failure to call the doctor and produce medical reports is fatal to the accused person’s allegations of injury,” Mutuku said. The prosecution denied ever promising to give Ngugi Sh30,000 monthly so he could be a prosecution witness, and Sh200,000 to help his wife relocate. Mutuku said the claim was false, as the officer did not have such powers. “The accused was only a protected suspect, not a protected witness as he alleges because he had implicated members of the National Police Service and they had a responsibility to protect him,” he said. The court heard that Ngugi never lodged any complaint of torture or physical injuries to the presiding magistrate or the doctor who examined him for a psychiatric report. In her submission, Ngugi’s lawyer Mucera Kinyori urged the court not to admit the confession. She said the police did not follow the laid-down procedures when they recorded. Ngugi was forced and threatened to sign something he had no knowledge of, she said. Kinyori maintained that at the time, Ngugi didn’t know his rights and the police should have informed him. Ngugi only speaks Kikuyu and does not know any other language, yet the offices chose to write the statement in English, the lawyer told the court. “The officer did not use his preferred language, which is Kikuyu, when they were writing the confession — for him to understand what was written,” she said. Investigating officer Clement Mwangi promised him a lot of things if he cooperated with them and one of the things was to make him a prosecution witness, Kinyori said. She raised concerns over the time the police used to record the alleged confession, saying it “was so little”. The case will be mentioned on April 4. The court will rule whether the confession will be used.