Pastoral communities must quickly address violent extremism, communal conflicts and radicalisation for development to take root. Garissa Governor Ali Korane said the three remain major hindrances for growth in Northeastern. Terrorism threat and poor education featured prominently among leaders’ concerns as the first conference of governors from pastoral communities began in Garissa town on Thursday. Leaders said revenue allocation and the August census will be their priorities for the year. Korane called for concerted efforts to confront diseases, drought and lack of markets. He urged the bloc to form a team to address inter-communal conflicts, violent extremism and radicalisation. “The threat of terrorism and radicalisation remain in our counties and requires our collective effort to eliminate. Our education and health sectors have been badly affected by terrorism,” Korane said. Most teachers fled Northeastern in 2014 and 2015 following spates of terror attacks targeting non-locals. Turakan Governor Josphat Nanok said marginalised counties must remain united to fight for their rights. “I’ve always asked myself this question: Why is that in the National Assembly, we have 30 per cent but we cannot push for our issues. We have 14 governors out of 47 but we cannot push for our agenda,” he said. The former Council of Governors chairman urged leaders from pastoral communities to speak with one voice in addressing their issues because they have shared problems. “The problem that is facing the people of Mandera is the same problem facing residents of Turkana, Wajir, Isiolo or Samburu,” Nanok said. Marsabit Governor Mohamud Ali urged development partners to support the Frontier Counties Development Council, saying all funds already received have changed lives in the grassroots for the better. He faulted the national governments for failure to release the money from the Equalisation Fund. “It [national government] has deliberately lowered allocation to the counties but we will fight for the cash even if it means going to cour,” Mohamud said.