Lack of national identity cards and birth certificates has greatly curtailed registration for Universal Health Coverage in the four pilot counties. Registration is only 62 per cent, the Health ministry said on Wednesday at the Health Sector Inter-Governmental Forum at the Kenya School of Monetary Studies in Nairobi. The UHC pilot was rolled out in December in Machakos, Isiolo, Kisumu and Nyeri. They were chosen because of their special health challenges and were to generate feedback to guide the countrywide rollout. The health ministry said, however, the UHC pilot so far has been successful in transferring funds and supplying commodities. It is expected to improve further as the problem of delayed transfer of funds from the County Revenue Fund to health facilities is resolved. “The UHC programme has been well received by Kenyans in the four pilot counties, with increased utilisation of health services observed,” CS Sicily Kariuki at the forum. The ministry plans to increase utilisation of Community Health Volunteers’ services and invest in standardisation of diagnostics in laboratories, radiology and other fields. “Other pilot steps are strengthening the monitoring of health facilities and prioritising the National Integrated Identity Management System programme for biometric registration of patients,” the CS said. The ministry is considering ring-fencing funds sent to the counties for UHC to ensure that they used prudently. The CS expressed concern, however, about falling health indicators, despite significant progress. Twenty-seven of 47 counties reported full child immunisation rate of less than the national average of 82 per cent in December last year. The ministry said 15 counties have been silent, not reporting acute flaccid paralysis for polio virus, which is a risk for a polio virus outbreak. “Disease outbreaks have become more common than ever. Various counties continue to report outbreaks of cholera, Rift Valley Fever, dengue fever and measles, among others,” Kariuki said. The CS emphasised the need for concerted efforts and investments to improve coverage for disease indicators and ensure no one is left behind in achieving 100 per cent UHC. “To this end, primary health care interventions, regular supervision and performance review mechanisms must be put in place at all levels of care,” she said.