Real Madrid's 1,011-day reign as European champions is over. Two years, nine months and five days since they beat fellow Spaniards Atletico Madrid in the 2016 final in Milan, they have finally been eliminated from Europe's premier club competition after three titles in a row. Santiago Solari's team saw their 2-1 first-leg lead overturned in emphatic fashion, as Dutch side Ajax claimed a stunning and deserved 4-1 victory at the Bernabeu. Despite only being in charge for 113 days, Solari has overseen Real's two heaviest home Champions League defeats, with this coming after the 3-0 defeat by CSKA Moscow in December. And Tuesday's exit comes six days after they were eliminated from the Copa del Rey by fierce rivals Barcelona, whom they trail by 12 points in La Liga. BBC Sport looks at the stats behind Real's remarkable run and the fallout from Tuesday's chastening loss. No Ronal no Champions League For the first time since May 2015 - a run stretching 46 months - Real Madrid are out of the Champions League. They have a remarkable record since the start of the 2015-16 season, in which they claimed the first of their three successive titles. Real had reached at least the semi-finals in every season since they were knocked out in the last 16 by French side Lyon back in 2010, in Cristiano Ronaldo's first season with the club. So what has gone wrong? Too much to sum up in one paragraph, but obviously losing the goals of Ronaldo has been a major problem. This year, Real's top scorer in Europe was striker Karim Benzema with four - some way off the pace of Bayern Munich's Robert Lewandowski (eight), Barcelona's Lionel Messi (six) or Ajax's former Southampton forward Dusan Tadic (also six). 'The end of an era' - a reaction at home and abroad Spanish newspapers AS  and Marca  went into overdrive at the full-time whistle, with several articles calling for the exits of manager Solari, president Florentino Perez, and numerous players - including Gareth Bale - who are "many of them in an undeniable end of cycle." Captain Sergio Ramos - who missed the game through suspension having been booked deliberately in the first leg - watched from a box while being filmed for an upcoming documentary. Spanish football journalist Guillem Balague said, "Just wait until the summer! There are big big problems at Real. One of the top players, one of the captains at Real, said that they only need to play well for four games a season to win the Champions League. That attitude in the long term is a massive problem. "It's the worst defeat at home in their European history. There was a resignation from the fans - they just went home without making any noise." Click here for the latest political news 