Manchester City’s lack of progress with Leroy Sane’s contract negotiations is in part down to the winger’s mother. Several sources have indicated that Regina Weber, West Germany’s 1984 Olympic gymnastics bronze medalist, has proved obstructive as City attempt to tie down one of their prized assets. City have been discussing fresh terms with Sane since last summer with his current deal running until 2021. The Premier League champions, who declined to comment on the subject on Wednesday, have always maintained they expect the 23-year-old to sign an extension. Sane has also publicly stated that the Etihad Stadium feels like ‘home’. Sane’s father, the ex-Senegal international striker Souleymane Sane, officially represents him with the help of intermediaries based in England but his mother has become involved in talks. Sane, a Germany international with 17 caps, has been in and out of Pep Guardiola’s starting XI for a number of months but was instrumental in their 7-0 demolition of Schalke on Tuesday night. Guardiola revealed Sane’s confidence had dipped ‘a little bit’ while others were preferred ahead of him, but he is still a key player for City with 25 Premier League appearances to his name this season. One player City have signed up is Bernardo Silva who has committed his long-term future by signing a three-year contract extension until 2025. The Portugal international has become the 11th player to renew with the Premier League champions since January 2018. It is believed his new deal is worth in excess of £150,000 a week, the prize for a stunning second season at the Etihad Stadium. Real Madrid had been tracking his progress. Silva has flourished this year and become one of the first names on Pep Guardiola’s team sheet. He has followed the likes of Raheem Sterling, Aymeric Laporte and Ederson in signing a new lengthy contract. The 24-year-old is a hugely popular figure around the club and was nicknamed Pablo Picasso by team-mate Benjamin Mendy. “It’s an honour to extend my deal with Manchester City,” Silva said. “This club offers everything a player needs to fulfil their ambitions and there’s nowhere else I want to be. As soon as I heard City wanted me to stay longer, my mind was made up. I love the club, the manager, the players and the fans.” “The style of football we play here excites me, and I am determined to win more silverware. City gives me the best chance of doing that.” 