Strathmore University head coach Meshack Senge is not rushing to praise his charges even after whitewashing their opponents 0-9 in their 2019 season opener played yesterday at City Park, Nairobi. Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology played an open game as they sought to disorganise the Scorpions but it all boomeranged on them. In the 60-minute game, they did not even have one shot on target. In their last fixture of the 2018 season, the two varsity outfits were pitted against each other and JKUAT displayed a closed style of play and minimized the number of goals Strathmore scored and the tie ended 2-0 in favour of the Scorpions. However, the change of tact did not work for the Juja-based side. “Their intentions did not materialise. Instead, it worked to our advantage in addition to our reaction on and off the ball. I love the way we have played and how we have scored the goals. In terms of structure we have achieved. The girls stuck to the script,” said Senge. The Madaraka-based tactician is however holding his horses, noting that it is still to early to call. “From today’s match I can say the pre-season input has come to fruition but I’ll be patient until the third or fourth match to note the pattern. To get our rhythm we have to have some consistency. Again, it’s early days...,” said the former Kenya international. JKUAT coach Samuel Oungo said stage fright amongst his charges, comprising of first years, could have been their downfall. “My players had already felt inferior to Strathmore before hand and that reflected in the game. This coupled with an unfamiliar surface (astro turf) accounted for the bad result. This is just but the first match and I know the girls will rise to the occasion as we go on,” said Oungo. Gilly Okumu accounted for five of Scorpions’ goals as Ruth Adhiambo had a hat trick as Yvonne Mwangi added one. Meanwhile, Senge has added three players to his stable. He has brought in forward-cum-offensive midfielder Cynthia Achieng and Doreen Wafula from Trans Nzoia Mixed Secondary and forward Angela Wema from Bura Girls.