On January 15 Kenya’s peace and tranquility were violently interrupted. At least five terrorists, including a suicide bomber, attacked the Dusit office complex and in the aftermath, at least 21 persons lay dead and property worth millions destroyed. Since the attack, much has been said about the response by various actors. Top and worth mentioning is the response by the police, who neutralised the attackers and in the process saved over 700 lives. Amongst those saved were two Kenyans who were working with the Public International Law & Policy Group — an American-based pro bono legal services organisation. PILPG has been working in Kenya since 2013. The organisation has been supporting pro bono legal aid by backing various activities of civil society organisations in different parts of the country such as Nairobi, Mombasa, Wajir, Mandera and Garissa. Through PILPG supported activities, lawyers and paralegals were hired to help people in conflict with the law and boost community empowerment projects. Promoting partnerships between state and non-state actors was a major strategy employed by PILPG. In essence, these activities promoted trust building and closer working relations between security authorities and communities vulnerable to violent extremism and radicalisation. Building trust is a crucial factor in deradicalisation of youth and rehabilitation of those exposed to violent extremism. Following the 14 Riverside attack, PILPG, through its Washington, DC, office, recently communicated that it is terminating all its projects in Kenya and pulling out of the country. The decision was based on its assessment of the security and programme situation in the wake of the attack. While it is the prerogative of a partner to make decisions on whether to continue a project or not, based on their assessments of the situation on the ground, it is surprising and disappointing that this decision was based on an incident that the beneficiaries had no control over. As a matter of fact, the beneficiaries who are Kenyans, are themselves victims and are now going to suffer more. What is also disappointing is the fact that PILPG has, to date, not shared, with its partners any of the concerns unearthed by its security assessment. This leaves the partners and beneficiaries at a loss and indeed puts people’s lives in danger, especially if there is crucial information that needs to be shared. It is a generally acceptable principle across the world that victims of terror attacks should not be disrupted from their normal duties. That when an attack occurs, affected communities should continue with their way of life without ado. This is because the main goal of terrorists is to actually ensure they disrupt what is normal so that people live in fear. The fear is then supposed to lead to disunity and eventually communities turning against each other. Communities that have been victims of terror attacks are encouraged to proceed with their lives as soon as possible. When we change our way of doing things as a result of terror attacks, we play into the minds of terrorists and help them spread their narratives and ideology. Doing so means giving in to terrorists and encouraging them to do more to continue disrupting the lives of their target communities. It is surprising that PILPG, itself a legal organisation, has opted to react to the 14 Riverside Drive attack in this manner. By terminating its activities in Kenya, the organisation not only plays into the terrorist’s ideology but also causes more damage to a community that has already been affected. As an American institution that is supported by US government funds, it is surprising that PILPG would abandon Kenyans at their hour of need. As a country, the US should review its laws and policies to ensure that her institutions do not cause more harm than good in the wake of such attacks. Kenya is an ally in the global war against terror — it should not suffer double victimisation from terrorists and its allies. hkhalid2000@gmail.com