Power intrigues have gripped the probe into the proposed takeover of JKIA by Kenya Airways. KQ seeks to enter into an arrangement that would lead to it taking over the day-to-day running of the country’s largest airport, leaving Kenya Airports Authority (KAA) to man the rest. Critics say the proposal is a plot by powerful forces in government to use the public-private partnership to profit from JKIA. DP William Ruto yesterday accused Parliament of denying the Executive space to work on “a plan that would see Kenya Airways regain its footing in the East African airspace”. “We request that the legislature gives us the space to restructure this relationship. We are a responsible government and will subject the proposal to the House for approval.” Read: MPs stop JKIA takeover, say deal suspicious Ruto said the proposal was mooted in a Cabinet meeting after concerns that KQ might go under with the governments’ investment. He said the plan will help the country save earnings in tourism, horticulture and revenues for KAA. “No transaction has taken place between KAA and KQ concerning JKIA. It is unfair that even before we start, all manner of allegations are flying around. We must be robustly independent and constructively interdependent.” A silent battle between two House teams that were looking into the viability of the proposal also present a new twist to the probe. This came in the wake of Speaker Justin Muturi writing to the Public Investments Committee asking it to stop investigations into the JKIA proposal. The Speaker’s orders followed protests by the Transport committee that their counterparts in PIC had overstepped their mandate. The team, chaired by David Pkosing (Pokot South MP), wrote to the Speaker seeking direction after it emerged the two teams were looking into the same subject. In his decision, Muturi said the issue of the takeover is a matter of government policy, hence, it is within the mandate of the transport committee. Read: JKIA takeover not merger but partnership deal — KQ More: Muturi issues restrictions on PIC probe on JKIA takeover Click here for the latest political news