Tax payers will be forced to shoulder non performing guaranteed loans extended to three State agencies by international lenders, a National Treasury document has revealed. The three including Kenya Broadcasting Corporation (KBC), Tana and Athi River Development Authority (TARDA) and East Africa Portland Cement (EAPC), according to the 2019 Medium Term Debt Management Strategy (MTDS), are servicing a total of Sh8 billion foreign and local loans guaranteed by the government . Topping the list of default is KBC which is in financial distress over unpaid bills and accumulated debt. The government guaranteed the state broadcaster a Sh8.2 billion loan facility in 1989 from Japan’s Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund to acquire medium-wave equipment, but defaults, penalties and interest loaded on the principal have since pushed the debt to at least Sh40 billion. The government-owned media house had expected to use revenue from permit fees to pay back the debt. Those fees were however rendered unfit with the liberalisation of the broadcasting sector in 1997, denying it more than Sh500 million a year in income. Last year, the firm admitted to being broke after reporting a Sh7 billion loss.The firm’s officials who appeared before the Senate Committee on Information and Communications Technology (ICT), chaired by Baringo Senator Gideon Moi revealed it was earning about Sh9 million a month, against a total expenditure of about Sh180 million. Cash-strapped East African Portland Cement Company (EAPCC) on the other hand is struggling to repay a loan that is over 40 years old owed to Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB). It has since accumulated to Sh4.5 billion. In October, the firm told the Parliamentary Trade Committee that it is unable to repay its total debt obligation of Sh10.8 billion.The government had guaranteed the cement maker to obtain Sh700 million from the local lender in 1978. Last year, the listed cement maker reported losses of Sh662.8 million Limping government agencies continue to strain the exchequer, incurring an average of Sh1.4 billion per year in defaulted loans. The amounts are meant to be recovered from the companies whose loans were guaranteed by the State as required by the Public Finance Management Act, 2012. The MTDS further shows the government is backing some Sh141.4 billion worth of loans taken by seven State-owned firms, most of which are in financial trouble. They include Kenya Airways whose loans have been guaranteed to the tune of Sh76.3 billion, Kenya Power Sh14 billion, Kengen Sh10.8 billion, Kenya Ports Authority (Sh33.6 billion) and Kenya Railways (Sh4.5 billion).