Chris Kantai made it to the limelight on the wings of a rap career, a craft he would forever be known for until his demise on February 27. Born in Kenya and raised in the United States of America, it was possible to assume what influenced his style of music. He embodied the sounds and debates of his moment more thoroughly. He was the real deal, gifting us with tracks like “Kantadda,” “Lifestyle” and “Issues” that struck a nerve with music enthusiast between 2004 and 2006. His death lands hard on the music community. His fans, who were familiar with the fact that he struggled with alcoholism, immediately speculated it to be the cause but that is yet been confirmed. Well, if you had seen him days before his death, it was quite evident the condition had taken a toll on him, but there was this unrelenting will by the artiste to continue creating and pushing his music. In fact, he was working towards releasing new music. Chris Kantai's legacy, which we are quite sure isn't, in the end, going to be the music he made, but instead, the realized potential and successful attempt to influence the direction of the contemporary sound. This is not stated to disparage his work and what his fans felt about him. The reality is that he emerged at a time when Kenyan artistes were finding themselves. He offered music that impacted a burgeoning music genre in ways that even artistes today endorse. To take one example, three years ago, when the Kenyan rap rivalry was still hot, Khaligraph Jones recruited Kantai's ingenuity on "Ting Badi Malo." For Jones, this was a great opportunity to have a pioneer of the rap game approve of his brilliance and help deliver a track that would be well-received or popular. At least, it was a proper reintroduction of a talent whose shine had faded into oblivion. One of the hardest things as a rapper is maintaining the name, but somehow, despite the setbacks in his career, Kantai has his place. The doors he opened for the younger generation of artists regardless of the genre can't be understated. He was right in the middle of it. Other than the music, the biggest legacy he leaves behind is paving way for artistes today. Kantai's input and choices in the music scene is the reason why the hip hop scene is what it is. He leaves plenty of proof of his musical brilliance, but there's going to be lots more talk about how influential he was in the rap scene. That's significant. Anybody could rest easy knowing they achieved that. Rest in peace, Kantai.