 When Kadhar Beileh decided to transfer his two eldest sons, Abdikani and Mohamed, Amin from Elm School, a private school in
Hargeisa in the self-declared state of Somaliland, to the United Arab Emirates
in 2015, he was laughed off and told his children had no chance of joining the
international school. The UAE school brushed him off and tried to shut their door on them
and was told point blank that he should not waste his money paying for an
examination fee because the boys would fail the entry test, ostensibly because
they hail from the unrecognised Somaliland, whose educational standards are
supposed to be poor. This is a common perception people who never visited
Somaliland have. Kadhar stood his ground and insisted to pay for the test. His
insistence would later pay off and he and his sons had the last
laugh. "Much to my surprise and relief, the headmaster told me my
two sons passed the entry exam with flying colours, and that they even
performed better than the other children from UAE and other foreign countries.
The headmaster seemed really impressed with their performance and asked me to
put him in touch with the Elm School to personally congratulate it." Well, Somaliland might not be recognised internationally, but they
can at least boast of Elm School, which is considered a premier institution
likely to produce tomorrow’s Somaliland leaders. Concerned parents who wanted the best for
their children started the school. Their decision was not only timely but also
entrepreneurial. The school has Kenyan teachers, assisted by their Somali colleagues,
who are the engine behind the success of the institution.  ELITE SCHOOLS Elm School is considered to be in the same league as Kenyan elite
international private institutions in terms of education quality and status.
Established in April 2007, the school has hundreds of students, including eight Kenyan
children, some of whom were born in Hargeisa, and whose parents are teachers at
the school. They have lived in Somaliland for years. Some of the children are
orphans and from poor families, and they study on a full scholarship as a way
to giving back to society. Elm has a seal of approval for quality education, a safe conducive
environment for learning as well as qualified teaching personnel. The school is
accredited by the British Accreditation Service for International Colleges and
schools (ASIC) and is cleared to offer international British system of
education. The institution also provides Kenya’s 8-4-4 system, which is
slowly being phased out to be replaced by the Competency Based Curriculum,
which is being rolled out by Elm School making it the first school outside of
Kenya to implement it. The school has a kindergarten, lower and upper primary and a
secondary school. These units are dotted across the fast-growing city of
Hargeisa, which, unlike other Somali cities, enjoys peace and stability
essential for a conducive learning environment. HAPPY AND FOCUSED TEACHERS So why is Elm School different from other schools in Somaliland? I asked
teachers, students and parents. "The school caters for our food and accommodation and
everything we need. Basically, they are responsible for us. We are happy. If I
was not happy, I wouldn't be here. We are hardworking and the teachers are
professionally trained unlike other schools here who just get anyone, where as
long as you are Kenyan and can speak English, then you are hired. I believe
that is why Elm School is the best," Grade 1 teacher Linet Kimunto, from Kisii county, who has a Master's in Education Management from
Mount Kenya University, said. Teachers say the school is well managed and their welfare is well
catered. They believe this is why the school is doing well. The institution has hired 79 Kenyan teachers who teach English,
Mathematics, Science, Environmental and Social Studies. Somali teachers teach
Somali language, Arabic and Islamic Religious Education. Here, teachers are
well remunerated, with the Kenyan teachers housed and fed free of charge.
Transport is also provided to and from school. They says the have coped with the different culture and weather,
and know they have to adhered to local laws and norms. Somaliland is
predominantly 100 per cent Muslim and this means alcohol is illegal. The
teachers say since the school carters for all their needs, they end up saving
almost all their salary. The best performing teacher is handsomely rewarded to encourage him
or her to do better. Some Kenyan teachers who in the past performed well were
even allowed to invite their spouses to Hargeisa for a visit in an all paid
expense by the school, while the single ones who also performed well got a
range of other presents, including monetary perks. NATIONAL PRIDE "People outside Somaliland assume we have nothing good to
offer. The perception outside is that Somalis live a life of misery and that
there is no quality education. Thank God we have Elm School and we are really
proud of it for providing quality education. I told other parents we must
support and protect the school as it is our national pride," Kadhar, a parent, said. His other five children study at the
School. The first group of students who started in Kindergarten in 2007 is
set to sit its O level and A level examinations in May. The candidates and
their teachers are oozing confidence they will pass and make the school
proud.  They will seat for their final exam — dispatched from the UK and
to be marked there— in Sheikh, a famous chilly mountainous town outside
Hargeisa. "Elm School is the best school in Somaliland. The teachers
are good and kind. When I first joined, I could not speak English, which I
can now speak fluently. My best subject is Environmental Studies. I want to be
a lawyer when I grow up," nine-year-old Iselin Arafat Mohamed who is in Grade
Three said. Her school mate Subeer Abdilatif Hussein, 9, is also happy about the school. His only concern
though is that boys in Hargeisa like fighting. His teachers say generally
Somali kids are hyper compared to Kenyan children. "Our teachers are very nice. Hargeisa is good but I don't
like how some kids behave. They like fighting always," the bespectacled
young boy said.  