In my column a
fortnight ago, I made a plea to ODM leader Raila Odinga to intervene to stop
Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa’s expulsion. The article elicited interesting reactions,
most notably from a friend from Kilifi county, Kenga Kadzitu. He said while he
agreed I raised valid points by making reference to Raila’s expertise as a
peacemaker and that he should put those skills to use in Jumwa’s case, the
Coast was tired of always begging. Kenga said, “Shouldn’t we be more
aggressive? Shouldn't we demand that Jumwa be accorded the respect she has
earned due to her fierce support for ODM over the years?” Indeed, the Coast is
a stakeholder in ODM and if its people are considered beggars in the party,
they will probably leave and shift their support to the newly formed Umoja
Summit Party of Kenya, a national political party that seeks to unite the Coast
region and field its own presidential candidate. The Coast has been
marginalised since Independence and many residents feel they have been reduced
to beggars in the political, economic and social arena. Veteran politicians
such as Chirau Mwakwere have fought for the inclusion of the Coast in all
arenas that matter. The former Transport minister complained that the Coast was
viewed as an afterthought. The ‘Zipapa, zipapa (big shark, big shark)’
slogan-chanting former minister would repeat his call for the Coast to be
accorded due respect as a powerful vote bloc whenever he got the chance. The need to unite the
Coast and give it clout when negotiating for the region’s interests has led to
the formation of different political outfits through the years, including
Shirikisho Party, which was led by Mwakwere, Kadu Asili, Chama cha Uzalendo and
Republican Congress of Kenya. Although the parties
were not fully able to achieve the envisioned unity at the Coast, hope has been
reignited with the formation of the Umoja Summit Party of Kenya. Indeed, the
three million vote rich bloc cannot be ignored by any candidate eyeing the
presidency. Jumwa is a fearless,
courageous and bold leader. She is able to speak her mind and fight for the
interests and grievances of the Coast people to be addressed. Everyone is
riding on her back because she says the things people are afraid to say. Jumwa even went to
jail for four days defending and campaigning for Raila in 2017. She was locked
up along with three other ODM leaders — Timothy Bosire, Junet Mohamed and
Florence Mutua — over hate speech allegations. The politics of
grievances has worked to earn politicians support across Kenya, the Coast
included. Jumwa has proven she will fight for the region’s interests and that
makes her appealing. Raila himself has used the politics of grievances and it
has won him support at the Coast. In December 2012 when
he was Prime Minister, Raila formed a commission to look into the historical
injustices that had been meted out against Coast residents. Fast-forward to
2018, after the historic handshake between Raila and President Uhuru Kenyatta,
historical injustices are one of the points to be addressed by the Building
Bridges Initiative committee. Historical injustices
are a big issue at the Coast as poor residents have on several occasions found
themselves displaced from their own land. Tycoons have been known to grab land
and have bulldozers descend on land unannounced and throw out residents, often
with no compensation because many did not have titles. Therefore, when Raila
pledged to deal with the issue, he was supported. Coast residents
support Raila, not because of who he is, but because they believe he can
address their interests, which include resolving historical land injustices. If
he, however, shows the Coast that its interests are not his interests, but
rather a means to climb the ladder, then residents are ready to go for a
by-election and Jumwa is sure to win back her seat, regardless of which party
ticket she runs on. At the Coast,
residents fiercely defend Jumwa and it would not be easy to wipe her out of the
political scene. For the Coast, it doesn’t matter which party ticket she runs —
she could even run as an independent candidate and win. The Coast has
suffered marginalisation and discrimination since Independence. From the region
being left out of political and economic participation, to inequitable
distribution of resources and bearing the brunt of insecurity, there are now many at the Coast who are
arguing that maybe it is in Jumwa that they will find the bold and unifying
figure that they have been craving all along. It would, therefore,
be in the best interest of ODM and Jumwa to reconcile and move forward.  Naomi Cidi is
the interim Secretary General, USPK