In 2016 Waikwa Wanyoike and I wrote a Katiba Corner
piece about the Okoa Kenya popular initiative to amend the Constitution
(which you may remember the IEBC said had not got enough valid signatures). We ended: “Let
us hope that anyone else with popular initiative schemes will be more modest in
their ambitions, and think things through better.” Now
we have the Thirdway Alliance initiative (“Punguza Mizigo”), and I fear those
hopes have not been realised.  A MIXED BAG OF IDEAS Many
of Thirdway’s underlying issues are things Kenyans will have much sympathy
with: Far fewer MPs, no allowances for legislators etc., abolish Deputy
Governor position, any commissioners to be few (not more than five, and part-time
only), audit and other reports on corruption to be automatically adopted, and
trials to be done in 30 days, life sentences for those convicted, ID card means
you are registered to vote. But
five minutes’ reflection would show many of them are very superficially thought
through. And now that we have the Bill, too, which Thirdway had to present to
the IEBC with their signatures, this becomes more obvious. Let’s
take just a few Thirdway ideas. Counties would be constituencies, each to elect
two MPs, a woman and a man. Lamu (with 69,793 registered voters in 2017) would
have the same number of MPs as Nairobi (2,251,921 registered voters). The voice
of every Lamu voter in the National Assembly would be 32 times as strong as
that of every Nairobi voter. We have some of this imbalance now with the county
woman representatives. And we have it with the Senate, but as a counterbalance
to the National Assembly. Suppose we shifted to a parliamentary system (Raila’s
preference): The voice of a Lamu voter would be equal to that of 32 Nairobi
voters in deciding which party would form government. Providing
that the Auditor General’s reports must be automatically adopted, and lead to
prosecutions, gives too much power to this office, and detracts from the role
of the DPP. Providing
that all corruption trials must end in 30 days is simply unrealistic. The facts
in these cases are often very complicated. And what happens if a trial does not
finish in time? The
minimum funding to counties would be raised from at least 15 per cent of
national revenue to at least 35 per cent. But no additional powers would be given
to the counties. The national government is responsible for the police and
military, the courts, education, major roads – all very heavy budget items.
There was no suggestion to transfer any of these to the counties. Some
of the things people signed for have changed in the Bill, though, to be fair,
the Thirdway Bill is closer to the document that people signed than the Okoa
Bill was to its signed petition. But there are still a number of proposed
amendments to the Constitution in the Bill that many who signed the Thirdway
petition would not have anticipated.  PROCEDURE ISSUE The
real problems (as with Okoa Kenya) are with the procedure as much as with the
ideas. With
Thirdway, the first problem is: Whether the one million voters (if they exist)
actually “signed”. People were invited to support the petition for amendment
through the party’s website. But if you click on a website that you agree with
a proposal, even if you give your ID, have you really “signed”? Second,
what did supporters really sign? On the Thirdway website, above the chance to
click, the following statement appeared: “I, the undersigned being a registered
voter, do hereby support Thirdway Alliance Kenya popular initiative referendum
that seeks to reduce Members of Parliament, cap the overall cost of running Parliament
& increase devolved funds to 35% from current 15% pursuant to popular
initiative provided for in Article 257 of our Constitution”. No mention of no Deputy
Governor, or ways of dealing with corruption. True these points were in a list
above, but surely what they “signed” (if they signed anything) was this
statement. Are
these points nitpicking? If the country is to go through the huge, expensive,
upheaval of a referendum and constitutional change, surely we need to make
absolutely sure that the people who signed really understood.  NOT WHAT THE
CONSTITUTION INTENDED I believe that the Thirdway initiative, like
Okoa Kenya, has departed in important ways from what the Constitution drafters
had in mind. First of all, Article 257 of the Constitution
says, “An amendment to this Constitution may be proposed by a popular
initiative signed by at least one million registered voters.” Thirdway proposes to change 29 Articles of the
Constitution. In my view, it was not intended that a large number of amendments
should be grouped together and required just one vote of support from any
member of the public. The second problem lies in a proposal such as
that of Thirdway:  The Constitution provides
that the proposal may be a fully drafted Bill to amend the Constitution, or a “general
suggestion”.  Although Thirdway’s general
suggestions are rather less vague and general than those of Okoa Kenya, we
still find one like: “Elevate Senate to be an Upper House with veto powers”. In
the Bill, this now appears with a good deal of detail. For example, the Senate
may decide that any decision of the National Assembly (does this include
approval of officers like Chief Justice or commissioner?) contravenes the
Constitution or “goes against public interest”, and it may veto the decision!
Did people who “signed” understand all this? Again Thirdway said, “Reduce cost of running
Parliament from current Sh36.8 billion to Sh5 billion per year”. How this would
be achieved was never made clear. This was to include capping MPs salaries; but
this has disappeared from the Bill. Certainly just having only one-third as
many MPs would not have this impact on expenditure.   SWISS PRECEDENT The Kenya Constitution provision is inspired by
the Swiss supreme law. In Switzerland, the constitution and law require that a
people’s amendment proposal be focused and deal with only one topic. Last year,
a proposal was made (and rejected) to amend the Constitution to provide that
international law would not take precedence over the Constitution – a very
focussed point. Thirdway has proposed a large number of changes, covering a
wide range of types of changes. Is this what the Kenyan Constitution means when
it speaks of “an amendment”? A good test of the “general suggestion” made by
someone wanting to change the Kenyan Constitution would be if someone else
could prepare a formal Bill for Parliament detailing the changes needed. If no
one could do this, could the people who signed have known what change(s) to the
Constitution they were supporting? In Switzerland, if the petition is in the
form of a “general suggestion”, the actual Bill spelling out the change is
prepared by the Parliament, not the proposers. Many of the Thirdway proposals
would have been difficult for someone else to put into law. In fact, even Thirdway
changed its mind in some respects before preparing the Bill.  OTHER PROBLEMS IN KENYA Another
serious problem has been the lack of open discussion. Where has the debate been
about these important ideas? Where will the debate be if the IEBC allows the
matter to go to the counties which have to vote on it in three months? If a
majority of counties approve it but Parliament rejects it, how informed a
debate will take place before the referendum? Finally,
there are many other ideas about changing the Constitution floating around. Many
directly conflict with the Thirdway proposals – its proposals for Parliament
conflict with the two-thirds gender Bill, which Parliament seems unable to
pass;  the two MPs per county proposal
would not work in a parliamentary system, as commented earlier; giving the
counties 35% of national revenue conflicts with those who want an intermediate
layer of government. How can all these suggestions be considered in a rational
way without us ending up with a mishmash of a constitution?