The government will not stop the importation of eggs from Uganda as restrictive trade measures would attract similar action from the largest buyer of Kenyan goods. Kenyan poultry farmers and entrepreneurs have been protesting over the grappling market due to the influx of eggs from Uganda, complaining they are struggling to break even due to the high cost of feed and low returns. Price of a tray of eggs has gone down from Sh270 to Sh150 since last June and price of a single egg has dropped from Sh13 in 2015 to Sh10. Kiptoo said the government will work on the formation of Kenya Trade Agency (KETRA) to protect any form of dumping and maintain sale at market value. “There have been complains from businesses due to eggs and high quantities of milk in the markets from Uganda. We cannot stop the goods when Uganda has opened their borders for our goods as part of the regional integration,” Kiptoo said during the launch of Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry’s membership services. Uganda is the leading importer of Kenyan goods after buying goods worth Sh61.85 billion in 2018, according to Central Bank data. The market surpasses other export markets including Pakistan that bought Sh59.38 billion and Netherlands Sh46.36 billion worth of Kenyan goods in the year. Uganda’s imports from Kenya include edible oils, cement, steel, paper and medicines, mineral fuels, beverages, soaps and lubricants. Kenyan imports from Uganda are coffee, tea, spices, sugar confessionary, cereals, tobacco, wood charcoal, waste of food industry and animal fodder. Dairy products, eggs, honey and edible products from the country composed of 11.83 per cent at the value of Sh6.57 billion out of Sh55.5 billion total value of goods to Kenya in 2017. Approximately 60 per cent of the eggs produced in Uganda is exported to Kenya. Meanwhile, the Kiambu county government is planning to introduce legislation that will enable animal feed producers to improve the quality of their output. The move is expected to eventually lead to lower operational costs for poultry farmers, hence higher profits from selling their eggs.