Siaya Senator James Orengo has told President Uhuru Kenyatta to boldly confront the perpetrators of mega corruption scandals rather than focusing on petty offenders. Orengo said it is a shame that government institutions are quick in conducting sting operations to nab police officers collecting bribes on the roads but go slow on powerful individuals behind huge looting schemes. The Senator spoke on Wednesday during a debate on the maize report that implicated top Cabinet secretaries in allowing a flurry of maize imports in the country in 2017 at the expense of local farmers. "You cannot fight corruption by arresting police officers who are taking little money along the road. You must go for the big fish. When you want to kill a viper, you do not go for its tail. You go for its head," he said. Citing examples such as Brazil and South Korea where former powerful presidents have been sentenced to long jail terms over corruption scandals, Orengo said Uhuru should confront high-ranking figures who are perceived to be graft beneficiaries. Read: Corrupt leaders must go - Uhuru "If you read this report [the maize report] carefully, the road is leading to one headquarter. I think the Senate should rise up to the occasion and encourage the President in what he is doing. He should follow where the evidence leads," he said. "The evidence is pointing out that there is a particular office in this land and there is a particular individual, who in all circumstances, encouraging corruption to take place in this country with impunity...." Read also: Flat lie? DP Ruto denies loss of Sh21 billion in dams scandal Orengo said the Constitution gives the President the requisite powers to act in confronting anybody who violates the law, including embezzlement of public resources. "Even if it is Orengo, lock him up," he said. The Senator's statement comes after the revelation of high profile corruption scandals in the country, with the latest being the syphoning of Sh63 billion meant for dam projects. Click here for latest political stories  