Siaya Senator James Orengo has vowed to push Deputy President William Ruto to record a statement over the Kimwarer and Arror dams issue. Orengo said Ruto seems to have more information because he insists only Sh7 billion rather than Sh21 billion has been accounted for. "If the President doesn't make Ruto record a statement to clarify his remarks, I will personally make Ruto record a statement with the police," he said. He spoke in Sega on Saturday during a rally ahead of the Ugenya constituency by-election. Orengo said the DP has the information the police need. He said no one is above the law and as a leader, he is not going to sit back and watch as taxpayers' money is unaccounted for. "Ruto is the one who has invited the entire country to know the truth on exactly how much was lost in the dam saga after his conflicting figures," Orengo said. The Siaya Senator asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to be firm on the war on corruption. Orengo also urged Uhuru to continue pushing for the arrest of corrupt individuals despite noise from some politicians saying their community is being targeted. "The government record of those who have been arrested over corruption allegations in President Kenyatta's regime in my possession shows 43 Kikuyus, 18 Luos, 11 Luhyas, and 6 Kalenjins," Orengo said. Some Rift Valley leaders have accused the government of targeting the region. Read: Support Raila if you want, but don't target Kalenjins - Rift politicians Orengo said if any community should be complaining, it should be the Kikuyus. Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi urged Uhuru to develop a thick skin as he fights graft. Wandayi said the President should deal with corrupt individuals ruthlessly as he is the only person with the sword of authority. The Ugunja MP urged Ruto to tame his lieutenants. "I have been in theParliament for two terms with Oscar Sudi (Kapsaret MP) but I have never seen him uttering a single word in English to start daring the President on the war against corruption," Wandayi said. His Gem counterpart, Elisha Odhiambo, said it's foolhardy for Sudi to call the President names just because he is fighting corruption. "When Governor Obado and governor Ojaamong were arrested over the allegations of corruption, did Luos and Luhyas call President Kenyatta names?" he asked. Odhiambo told Sudi not think his community is special. Click here for the latest political news