Earlier this year, two news items in a local paper caught my eye. One was about the low price of eggs, occasioned by an oversupply. The other reported on the financial problems currently faced by virtually all public universities. These universities had greatly expanded their teaching facilities, only to suddenly face a sharp drop in applicants for the lucrative self-sponsored ‘parallel degree programmes. Now on the face of it, there is no direct link between these two news items. But my personal experience suggests that there is. Allow me to explain: In a position that I previously held, one of my responsibilities was to assess young writers who wanted to make a career in journalism. In time I found that they all fell into one of two categories. The majority were young people rich in dreams and ambition, but very poor in grammar and syntax. They simply could not write well enough to qualify for a job in a mainstream newspaper in Kenya. But someone had apparently told them that ‘their dreams are valid’ and they were determined to ‘make it happen. And it was not easy to persuade them that they would be better off doing something else. However, there were others who were really quite good. Indeed, I would sometimes find myself wondering how a young writer who had a demonstrable capacity for vibrant and lucid prose, could have been unemployed for so long. For most of these were not young men and women who had left college a few months earlier. Most often they had been out ‘in the field’ for two or three years. And whenever I asked any of them, “So what have you been doing with yourself since you graduated?”, surprisingly often, the response was “I tried my hand at raising poultry.”. To which I would usually respond, “I imagine you did not get very far with that.” And the answer to this — always preceded by an uneasy smile — would be something like, “I often sold my eggs at a loss. Everybody is doing poultry these days.” Based on this personal experience then, I would say that there is a direct causal link between the price of eggs and university enrolment. Most Kenyan parents are willing to make every sacrifice and deny themselves even the most modest of luxuries, in the process of trying to provide their children with the kind of education that will lead to ‘a good job’. And for many years this meant doing everything possible to get at least one of the kids into university. Thereafter, the family could be sure that — one way or another — the fees for the younger kids would be paid by their older brother or sister. This may not have always worked out. But, generally speaking, such a focus yielded positive results often enough to convince most Kenyans that the best investment a family could make was in their children’s tertiary education. But, for a national government, expanding opportunities in higher education in response to increasing demand is the easier part. Creating employment for the tens of thousands of young people who will then graduate every year, is far more difficult. And, as far as I can tell, nobody in government has any idea how to create these jobs. There was a time when qualifying in fields such as health and education was a virtual guarantee of immediate employment: if nothing else came up, the government would be sure to offer jobs, whether for nurses and kindergarten teachers, or doctors and graduate teachers. Those days ended long ago. The country still has a tragic shortage of both teachers and health workers. However, there is no financial capacity for absorbing all those hundreds of thousands already qualified in these fields at various levels, into public service. Hence, we find the ever-lengthening ‘average waiting time’ for finding a job. And with this, a steady realisation among parents that it may not really be worth it, making all those painful sacrifices, if at the end your brilliant son or daughter is going to end up running a failing chicken-and-egg business in your backyard.