Wayne Rooney has admitted he ‘couldn’t bear’ to see Liverpool win the Premier League. Having grown up as an Evertonian before becoming a Manchester United legend, Rooney is struggling to come to terms with the fact that the Reds are competing with City to win the title. The DC United forward told talkSPORT: “It’s a great reason to be out the country when those two are going head to head for the title. I hope Man City get over the line before Liverpool. I couldn’t bear to see them win it, it would be a nightmare for any Evertonian.” “I remember in 2005 they won the Champions League and they’re still talking about it now so it would be another 10 or 15 years of that! Meanwhile, Paris Saint-Germain are set to make a dramatic approach to sign Manchester United midfielder Ander Herrera. The Spaniard’s deal at Old Trafford expires at the end of the season and he is yet to agree to new terms. PSG are said to be monitoring the situation closely with plans to swoop in and sign Herrera on a free transfer. The Sun claim PSG have already entered talks with the midfielder and are expected to sign him in the summer on a £150,000-a-week deal. The 29-year-old has been a pivotal part of United’s turnaround in fortunes under Ole Gunnar Solskjaer but now appears ready to leave the club for the French capital. United had made some progress in talks over extending his stay at the club but the lure of a mega-money three-year deal at PSG has proved too much for Herrera to ignore. Solskjaer still retains some hope he may be able to persuade Herrera to stay with the United boss making it one of his priorities over the coming months. Losing him would be a huge blow for United, who have played him regularly this season. He is currently out injured but is expected to return to fitness from a hip injury after the international break to be in contention for their match with Watford. PSG have been on the hunt for a midfielder after seeing their move for Everton’s Idrissa Gueye rebuffed in the January transfer window. 