When I visited him at his home, in Oloibor-Soito near Trans Mara’s sleepy hamlet of Kipgoris early last year, I found a man happy with life. For Daniel Rudisha, who passed on yesterday at the age of 74, had seen it all. Despite an ailment that had considerably restricted his movement, but which he had stoically withstood, a smile flickered across his face in the course of our conversation, which revolved around the dynamics of athletics during their era and currently, where commerce, show business and cheating have conspired to overshadow its original principles, as presaged by Baron Pierre de Courbatin, the founder of modern Olympics. At the centre of our conversation was doping, which has threatened the sport hitherto known for its piousness, strength, endurance, height and speed. Doping is bastardising a sport which the ancient Greeks and Romans evoked to foster diplomatic relations among warring communities, and this made Mzee Rudisha very sad. I was lucky to have found his two-time Olympic champion, David Rudisha, who took a weekend off from his training venue of Eldoret. I was also privileged to be accompanied by another legend from the village, Billy Konchellah, and I could not have asked for any better company. What struck me as gratifying was the natural friendship between father and son, which triggered the flicker of smile on the old man’s face, a man very happy with his achievements and that of the family scion. “Simba anapumzika hapa (the lion is resting here),” joked David, punctuated with an uproarious laughter. The joke opened the floodgates of narratives in the old man. Konchellah’s presence added to the miasma of camaraderie and things just flowed smoothly thereafter. We were seated outside his beautiful permanent house, modestly furnished and recently renovated and expanded to meet the demands of streams of visitors, tracing the birth place of David, winner of 800m gold at 2012 London and 2016 Rio Olympic Games, complete with a world record, among others. Lack of sports facilities in many schools appeared to frustrate him so much, like cheating which culminated in doping. “Teachers these days don’t encourage physical education. Schools don’t have grounds and do not make sports compulsory. That is wrong,” he said. “Athletes were not allowed to take any medicine during residential training, but if it was necessary, the team doctor (Dr Ang’awa) had to authorise,” he intoned. But first, Rudisha, it turned out, was born, not in Kilgoris, but in Shamberere, near the headquarters of Salvation Army church, in Kakamega. His father, Mzee Matasi, was the head of the African Court, an equivalent of present-day Magistrate, which inculcated knowledge in him very early in life. His lineage claimed affinity with the Elgon Maasai more than the Kilgoris Maasai, hence the name Matasi. But they migrated to Kilgoris when he was young and he attended Kipgoris D.E.B. School between 1955 and 1964. He proceeded to Thogoto Teachers College between 1965 and 1966. The athlete in him emerged at a young age, where he was the undisputed king of 400m and 800m in the entire Narok and Trans Mara, he only sharpened his claws while in Thogoto. He competed against Kimaru Songok and Naftali Bon. Bon died last year and was buried at his Kamng’etwing in Kapsabet last November. Although he did not live in training camps with the others who ran for disciplined forces, he easily beat them in competitions. Given his better education, Rudisha was often the translator of the team. Rudisha often trained alone in the Poroko-Kilgoris circuit which was populated with wild animals, lions included. But this never scared him. As a result of his trail blazing career, more athletes like the Konchellah siblings, Billy and Patrick (R.I.P.), Stephen ole Marai, and later on, Gregory Konchellah, Wycliffe Kinyamal and William Yiampoy, emerged from the region. During his last year in Thogoto, he represented Kenya in the Commonwealth Games in Kingston, Jamaica, where he won bronze in 400m. Two years later, he was at Olympics in Mexico City where he took 4x400m silver medal with Charles Asati, Naftali Nyamau and Bon, behind world record breaking USA squad. After being posted to teach in Kilgoris, he never had enough time to train, and this made his athletics career shorter than his contemporaries. But he ran in invitational races in Africa and European cities. By the time of his retirement in 2000, he was Inspector of Schools responsible for teachers discipline. Among the first to send their condolences were Kip Keino, who captained the team to Mexico Olympics, Asati and Nyang’au, his team mates in the 4x400m relay team for years. They were made sad because two more legends, Nyantika Maiyoro, who was in the first generation of Kenyan athletes who pioneered at the Olympic Games in Melbourne in 1956, and John Mayaka, winner of bronze medal at the 1974 Commonwealth Games, died last week. Maiyoro is being interred today in Kisii and Mayaka was buried yesterday. “We need prayers for our legends. It is sad that they are leaving us,” Keino, winner of two Olympic gold medals mourned.  - Isaack Omulo is an award-winning semi-retired Sports Journalist who worked for The Standard for three decades and now freelancing for local and international media.