President Uhuru Kenyatta has rubbished claims by Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi that he is involved in corruption. The visibly angry President told the MP to provide evidence of his claims to the Director of Criminal Investigations. "Recently, someone said I stole something. I'm telling him to visit Karura Forest - the DCI offices are there. This issue of lamenting at funerals should stop, the dead person will not help you," Uhuru said. On Sunday, Sudi said Uhuru and ODM boss Raila Odinga "should not pretend to be holy" as they had a hand in the intended take over of the JKIA by Kenya Airways. He further accused the two of using the handshake to block Deputy President William Ruto from ascending to power after the President's term ends. The MP further claimed that DCI George Kinoti is being used to target innocent people in the war on graft. "You have caused the sacking of so many innocent people and their cries will not go free. If you don't want certain people just tell them to resign instead of faking graft charges," he said. But Uhuru told him to present evidence and not empty talk. "What do you have to fear? Even if you are taken to court, you have a right to a lawyer to defend you," Uhuru said. "Kupiga piga mdomo inasaidia nani?" he asked. (Endless talking helps no one). Uhuru said agencies mandated with fighting corruption have the capacity to do their job. He said the war on corruption will continue in earnest and 'funeral pronouncements' by those opposed to it will not deter the resolve. "This war on corruption will not be won at funerals, this war will be won by the use of agencies given the mandate to do the job," Uhuru said. He spoke on Tuesday during the official opening of the 6th Devolution Conference at Kirinyaga University. He alleged that the duo is using the handshake to block Deputy President William Ruto from ascending to power after the President's term ends. Read; [VIDEO] Uhuru using handshake, war on graft to extend term - MP Oscar Sudi Also read; Uhuru is like a hyena eating his kids – MP On devolution, the President said it's time county governments stopped wastage of resources and slashed their budgets on recurrent expenditure. He said as it currently stands, governments are spending 52 per cent of the total revenue on salaries, 30 per cent on recurrent expenditure and only 20 per cent on development projects. "Surely there is something wrong in that equation," Uhuru said. He gave the example of a county he did not mention that has a budget allocation of Sh6 billion but uses Sh6 billion for paying staff. "Sh3 billion is what is left to cater for the needs of over two million residents," Uhuru said. "Is that correct?" he asked. Yet another county, he said, uses Sh600 million to oversight Sh800 million. Uhuru said he agreed with other leaders on Monday that there is a need for a national conference on the issue to engage on policies and guidelines on revenue utilization in both the national and county governments. "We will arrange and invite people from all sectors so that we discuss how we can have more funds going to the people and not into people's pockets," Uhuru said. He said he was confident that devolution was working going by the way development had reached even the small farmers. "I have seen coffee farmers here in Kirinyaga are doing fine, they have even gotten a market in America for their produce. The same with Makueni people with their mango juice factory," Uhuru said. He urged all Kenyans to focus on work. More: Recurrent expenditure, corruption tops agenda in Devolution Conference Also read; Name and shame to win graft war - Orengo Click here for the latest political news 