LG Electronics renewed their sponsorship for the Footballer of the Month Awards for the fifth year running, in a ceremony held yesterday at it’s headquarters in Westlands. The partnership with Sports Journalists Association of Kenya (SJAK) saw the leading electronics company increase their annual sponsorship package to Sh7.5 million from Sh6millon last year. The new deal will see the winners bag a 49-inch LG Smart television that has a voice recognition application and is browser enabled. LG marketing and corporate communications manager Ms. Maureen Kemunto said: “We are proud to once again partner with SJAK as official partners of the Footballer of the Month initiative. Our brand has built a closer connection with consumers through the partnership as well as creating the zeal to excel amongst footballers. We also believe that our shared passion for football will drive us to shape the path of the game through the players’ morale.” SJAK and LG partnership dates back on March 5, 2015 when Ali Abondo then at Gor Mahia won the first award. Since then, over 30 players have been awarded and a couple of them have gone ahead to sign for clubs abroad while others have received call- ups to the national team. From Gor Mahia, Abondo signed for Ajax Cape Town before moving to Bloemfontein Celtic FC, Kenneth Muguna moved to Albanian side, FK Tirana before returning to Gor while Meddie Kagere joined Simba SC of Tanzania. Others are Jesse Were and Elvis Rupia who are in the Zambian league playing for Zesco United and Power Dynamos respectively. SJAK president Chris Mbaisi said: “Over the years, LG’s partnership has seen tremendous improvement in the calibre of players in the Kenyan Premier League. With the renewed partnership we look forward to discovering new talent across the country as we build the profile of Kenyan football.” In addition, LG has set aside Sh500,000 to support three corporate social responsibility activities undertaken by SJAK in three different counties to improve youth football skills.