Pokot South MP David Pkosing has castigated dynasties for using corruption to gain political mileage for 2022. He said the fight against graft is driven by 2022 politics where dynasties are planning and scheming on how to scuttle Deputy President William Ruto’s presidential aspirations. Pkosing said that Ruto’s competitors are trying to malign his name ahead of 2022 so that they can take over the country’s top job. The lawmaker who is a close ally of the DP said the recent meeting of ODM leader Raila Odinga and Kanu Chairman Gideon Moi was the genesis of corruption claims at Kimwarer Dam. Read: [VIDEO] I don't smoke bhang, Ruto defends remarks on dams probe He spoke on Sunday during a church service at Nasokol AIC Church in Kapenguria, “The talk about Kimwarer started at the hotel where the duo met,” he said. The MP called on the National Intelligence Service to investigate Raila and Gideon on what transpired in their meeting. “What did they discuss and what were they planning? Why did they publish it?” Pkosing said. He said the 2022 politics will be a competition between the rich and the poor. Read also: Flat lie? DP Ruto denies loss of Sh21 billion in dams scandal “We are tired and we will not allow that. Dynasties and sons of the rich don’t want a son of a peasant or hustler to be a President,” he said. Pkosing said corruption has been politicised and targeting certain communities from the Rift Valley. “The idea is not about corruption but on 2022 politics,” he said. He said some politicians are bringing division and targeting members from the Kalenjin community who are being used as sacrificial lambs. See more: Panic hits Ruto camp over probe into dams Pkosing said that the Directorate of Criminal Investigation (DCI) and Ethics and Anti Corruption Commission (EACC) are being used politically and are engaging in activism instead of fighting graft. “Time is moving and by the end of five years will not have developed our country,” he said. Click here for the latest political news