The debate is still
raging on whether we should we adopt a parliamentary system of government
or stick to what we are already used to — the presidential system. To answer this
question rationally and objectively, we need to close our eyes and forget about
the leading proponents of each option. We need also to forget, for a moment at
least, that the issue is not about who will benefit from one position or the
other but how adopting a particular system will affect the manner in which we
are governed now and into the future. I want, therefore, to
take you back into history and on a journey across the globe. At the end of the
Second World War, the whole global political system changed drastically. In
came two very powerful nations, the USA and the USSR, and down went the former
European colonial powers, particularly the French and the British. The USA and the USSR
did not need colonies in Africa. In fact, European colonialism was a hindrance
to the realisation of their global interests. If it was raw materials they
wanted in Africa, especially in the case of the US, they could access it
through economic imperialism and not political colonialism. So both pressurised
Europe to decolonise not just in Africa but in Asia as well. Europe did not
concede to independence in Africa out of generosity: Changed circumstances
forced her to do so. In the meantime,
anti-colonial movements were already "on the move", in Africa and
Asia, even before the war ended. By 1948, Indian nationalism had already
overwhelmed British rule there. Negotiations for India's independence started
well before the War wound up, and the bone of contention was centred on what
type of self-rule the British would leave behind. That the Indian
nationalists settled for a parliamentary system of government with substantial
devolution of power to the states was no doubt a mixture of domesticating
British political culture in India while also taking into account the need to
appease demands for "home rule" at the local level given India's
cultural diversity. While this model of transition to independence succeeded in
India to this very day, in Nigeria it failed rather miserably within the first
decade of independence. Most African
countries that started at independence with Parliamentary systems of government
experienced rude and ruthless imposition of presidential or military
authoritarian rule within the first decade of independence. Many studies of
military rule in Africa usually cite corruption, nepotism, tribalism and greed
for power as the major causes of military coups in Africa. Many studies of
the rise of civilian presidential authoritarian regimes cite more or less the same factors
as the causes of the emergence of these regimes. So why should we have military
rule in some cases and civilian ones in others exercising more or less similar
authoritarian power? We will not spend
much time seeking an answer to this question. Suffice it to say, however, that
all presidential authoritarian governments and military regimes that replaced
the post-independence parliamentary systems all drove the respective African
countries down the disastrous road of underdevelopment without exception. Look
at Nigeria, Uganda, Mali, Togo, and Cameroon etc. All have little to show in
terms of poverty eradication, equitable development and reduction of
inequalities. Even Cote d'Ivoire and Kenya, for long touted as examples of
capitalist prosperity in Africa, have faced serious political and economic
crises for quite some time now. But would adopting a
parliamentary system be a panacea to Africa's development problems? Not
necessarily. But it would at least provide a better political environment for
economic development. First, it would improve political stability. Elections
under parliamentary systems of government are not cut throat affairs where the
likelihood of losers losing fairly is rare and the tendency for incumbents to
retain power notwithstanding the outcome is always very high. Thus investors
and the business community tend "to wait and see" any time elections
are just about to be held in presidential authoritarian regimes. Thus the
downturn in investment flows adversely affect capital formation. Second, if you look
at India, you will find that the intensity with which elections are fought, maybe
even higher than in Kenya or Nigeria. But once the votes are cast, counted and
results announced, society quickly "goes back to normal" and major
economic activities hardly disrupted.  In Kenya and Nigeria, once the
election fever sets in two or so years ahead of any polls, investors begin
hedging their bets and adopting plenty of caution in making investment
decisions. Three, it is true
that in Parliamentary systems as well as presidential systems, who leads is
important. Indian political parties, like their British or Canadian counterparts,
are likely to win elections depending on who their leaders are — hence the
likely candidates for premiership--as well as what policies they espouse. In
Kenya or Nigeria, the presidential candidates win or lose elections quite often
with minimum regard to their policies. Provided a candidate is capable of
building a large enough ethnic or regional coalition to win the policies can
come later. Yet it is policies,
and not simply personalities, that shape the agenda for social
transformation. We in Africa seem to have embraced the one-party and one leader
model political system because, at that point in time, we thought this would
serve our need for national unity. But after almost 60 years of independence
this has taken us neither to national unity nor to national development. It is
time to change tact. We only need to trace
our steps back to independence to learn something from India, Australia,
Canada, New Zealand, Jamaica and the West Indies in general. All these are
parliamentary systems and they have done very well in terms of political
stability, national unity and development. Why should we stick to a model that
has not worked for us and is still unlikely to work for us? 