Families who had been displaced to give way for the construction of the now scandal-hit dams in Kerio Valley have been asked to repossess their land. Elgeyo-Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos told the 1,000 families to take back their 6,000 acres. “The emerging scandals have caused a lot of confusion and those whose land was acquired should repossess it until further notice,” Tolgos said in Iten town on Thursday evening. The Sh65 billion multipurpose dams are to be built at Arror and Kimwarer. The DCI is investigating possible loss of Sh21 billion paid to a now declared bankrupt Italian company and individuals as tender contract fee and alleged kickbacks. The government gazetted the more than 6,000 acres for the dams. Families whose land was to  taken through compulsory acquisition were directed not to use the land and to be ready for relocation. The Kerio Valley Development Agency, which is responsible for the construction of the dams, had identified 11 parcels of land in Trans Nzoia and Uasin Gishu where the families would be  resettled. The families were to be  paid cash as compensation for any development on their land. “The landowners should not wait for what they don’t know. Let them go back to the farms until further notice,” Tolgos said, adding that the county would not allow the families to be frustrated by cartels involved in the dams’ scandal. The governor said many families had in the past lost out after they were not compensated for land  taken over for other public projects. He wants President Uhuru Kenyatta to ensure that the lost money is recovered. The two dams were expected to transform the region’s economy. They were to supply water for irrigation in Kerio Valley. On Tuesday, KVDA’s chief executive David Kimosop declined to comment on the issue. The governor said he was on record opposing the manner in which the projects were being implemented by KVDA. The authority, according to him, did not involve stakeholders. “The challenge has been the leadership of Kimosop, whose activities have messed up the successful start of these projects,” the county chief said in a statement on Tuesday.  He said under Kimosop’s leadership, KVDA had been a one-man show. “I’m not the only governor who has raised the red flag on his operations. My West Pokot, Baringo and Turkana counterparts have called for the disbandment of KVDA if Kimosop continues to mismanage the regional authority,” Tolgos said. He said underhand dealings by cartels should not cause the projects to stall. “We appeal to the President to ensure the projects proceed once all the culprits are brought to book.”