The fire that has destroyed 24,710 acres of moorland in Mt Kenya National Park has now been contained. Heavy rains fell on the southern side of the mountain, covering Castle forest in Kirinyaga and extinguished the blaze. Kenya Forest Service said it undertook an aerial survey over Mount Kenya on Saturday. “Fire is still, however, active in Chogoria heading towards the North West,” KFS said in a statement. The foreste service said firefighting teams were employing ‘backfiring’ tactics to contain the fire. The fire in Ndaragwa and Kamiruri have successfully been suppressed by KFS with the assistance of Community Forest Association teams. In Geta forest, the fire is still active at Sofia area at the steep gradients. Close to 100 members of the CFA and KFS staff are still at the site fighting the fire. The Shamata-Satima forest fire is still raging and heading to Central moorlands of Aberdares. KFS said the monitoring of the fires was closely being done with the national and county administrators. Elsewhere in North Rift Conservancy, fire was spotted in Chororget private farms along Kerio Valley escarpment, approximately over 10km from Penon Forest station. Residents who intend to burn any vegetation in any areas adjacent to the forest have been warned that they need to give 48-hour written notice to the nearest Kenya Forest Service office. On Thursday, Environment CS Keriako Tobiko toured parts of Mt Kenya Forest that were burnt. He was accompanied by KFS acting chief conservator of forests Monica Kalenda. Tobiko observed Community Forest Association members and other volunteers who are working to put out the fire that has so far razed down over 100, 000 hectares of moorland. Strong winds, lack of adequate equipment and personnel and difficult terrain are among the challenges affecting suppression of the fire. Addressing government officers at the joint command centre at Chogoria gate, Tharaka Nithi county, the CS appealed for concerted efforts from other relevant ministries and affected county governments to put out the fire. The CS urged all six Counties in the Mount Kenya Ecosystem to consider a unified approach to tackling the prevailing fire and to prepare a strategy for handling a similar situation in future. He decried the approach taken to deal with environmental disasters, which often lead to unrecoverable loss of biodiversity, yet minimal resources are allocated to tackle the challenges. Building institutional capacity through training in fire fighting and providing adequate equipment is paramount. To date 120 forest fires have been reported countrywide since January, but most have been suppressed. In 2017, more than 17,000 acres of the Aberdares Forest were destroyed by fire. In that year, wildfire destroyed 220 acres of indigenous trees in Menengai Forest. Click here for the latest political stories. 