Nairobi Stima assistant coach Evans Mafuta says the team remains focused on gaining promotion to the SportPesa Premier League. Speaking after the team’s narrow 1-0 win over Wazito, Mafuta hailed the players for the victory. Nairobi Stima are the only unbeaten team in the league after 17 matches. “They played according to the instructions of the technical bench led by coach George Owoko. We would have won the game by a 3-0,” he said. “The question has been whether we can maintain our unbeaten record. I think we can go all the way,” said Mafuta. Despite being third on the table, Mafuta said it’s only a matter of time before they dislodge log leaders Ushuru and second-placed Wazito. “Our target at the beginning of the season was to finish the first round matches with 40 points. We have two matches remaining and I’m confident we will meet our target when we play Shabana on Sunday at Gusii Stadium,” added Mafuta. Ushuru returned to the summit of the league with 38 points after a comfortable 3-0 win over Modern Coast Rangers. Paul Kiongera struck twice while Alex Sunga added the third goal. Wazito’s loss to Nairobi Stima means they drop to second also on 38 points but the tax men have a better goal difference. Nairobi Stima are one point behind the two promotion favourites. Ushuru got back to the summit of the FKF National Super League following a 3-0 win over Modern Coast Rangers at the Ruaraka grounds. This was heavily aided by Wazito’s 1-0 loss to Nairobi Stima in yet another match played at the Karuturi grounds in Naivasha. Kisumu All Stars beat Fortune Sacco 4-0 at Moi Stadium in Kisumu to move fourth on the log. NSL top scorer Dennis Ochieng was on target as he increased his goal tally to 12 as All Stars stormed the fourth place. Other scorers in the game were Shadrack Omondi, Gerishon Arabe and Erick Otie. Meanwhile, Shabana went three matches without a loss after holding Administration Police to a barren draw at Camp Toyoyo in Nairobi. The biggest winners on Wednesday were St. Joseph’s Youth who thrashed a hapless Migori Youth 7-1 at Afraha.