Star digital reporter Nancy Agutu scooped a prestigious award on health journalism. The ceremony for the just concluded Africa Media Network on Health Journalism Awards was held in Kigali, Rwanda, on Wednesday night. Those honoured were journalists who have demonstrated outstanding merit in health reporting on TV, radio, online and print categories. There were 161 entries from Uganda, Kenya, Malawi, Tanzania and Zambia — 44 entries for TV, 29 for radio, 50 forprint and 38 for the online platform. Nancy won the top award on maternal health in the online category. She was handed a trophy and a certificate under the Gold category. Her work, ‘The agony of stillbirth and how to prevent it’, was about two women, who lost their babies before birth. The two are just among the many women who lose their babies daily in Kenya. Failure by the medical personnel to give proper explanations or educate women on causes of such deaths means many would-be mothers go through life blaming themselves, their ‘blood’ and even ‘curses’ for the loss of their babies before birth. Ugandan Samuel Okirir got silver. Another Ugandan, Flavia Nassaka, got Bronze. “I’m happy and grateful for this wonderful opportunity accorded to me in the health sector. This shows how much impact digital platforms have had on world of journalism. I’m happy and thank my editors, who stood by me and guided me,” Nancy said. Radio Africa Group Head of Content Paul Ilado said, “Nancy deserves this award because of the talent and tireless hard work. The award goes a long way to show that the Star, and Radio Africa in general, has award-winning journalists capable of competing with the best in the profession. We’re proud that this award has come to the Star and look forward to many more in the near future.” The Star's Digital Editor Oliver Mathenge said, "We’re very proud of Nancy. She has once more shown that, as Radio Africa Group, we’re dedicated to excellence and giving our audience quality stories that they identify with. "We continue to support our journalists to put together content that is informative, educative and entertaining with the highest quality of journalism that we can achieve." The AMNH is a network of highly acclaimed journalists and editors from Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda Zambia and Malawi who are reporting on health systems strengthening about their countries and the continent. It is also the brainchild of Health Systems Advocacy Partnership project — a consortium of partners that include Amref Health Africa, the African Centre for Global Health and Social Transformation, Health Action International, Wemos, and the Dutch Ministry of Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. Under the TV category, Kenyan Eunice Omollo from Nation Media Group won the Gold category, followed by Mercy Kandie (Royal Media Services, Silver) and Saida Swaleh (also RMS) with Bronze. On print stories, Eunice Kilonzo from Nation Media Group received Gold award, followed by Diana Kendi (freelancer) and Kenneth Simbaya (Tanzanian) from IPP Media/The Gurdian. Under the radio category, MacDonald Gondwe from Malawi won, followed by Arthur Sikopo (Zambia) and Ruth Keah (Kenya). Amref Health Africa Group CEO Githinji Gitahi said journalists must hold governments to account on human rights and promises made. “Let the public think of Universal Healthcare as a social contract and how the media can let citizens understand what it entails. We’re very proud of our winners and finalists,” he said. “The most important thing when it comes to UHC in journalism is to bring the voices of the people to the fore when they want to question their governments.”  