A political partnership between Jubilee and ODM parties ahead of the 2022 general elections would unite the nation and stabilise the economy, a Central MP has said. Gatanga's Joseph Nduati said he supported the idea fronted by Senate Minority Leader James Orengo, who in a recent TV interview said ODM will field a presidential candidate and that President Uhuru Kenyatta will play a role in a coalition between the two parties. Orengo’s view has since been contested by some his party members, including Parliament's Minority Leader and party chairman John Mbadi. Mbadi dismissed Orengo’s remarks as his personal. But Nduati said such the coalition would be good for the country given the achievements of the handshake. “Since the handshake, the economy and politics of the country have changed for the better,” Nduati said during Gatanga education day at Moi Primary School. The MP said the calm in the country has been noticed by world leaders. He cited French President Emanuel Macron, who was in the country last week for bilateral talks with President Uhuru Kenyatta. An economic deals worth over Sh300 billion was signed. Such deals, Nduati said, will create employment for the youth and strengthen the economy. He said the Siaya senator appreciated the immense benefits of the handshake. “Orengo was one of the staunch opposers of the government but I am glad he has seen what the President has been able to accomplish,” Nduati said. He said public appointments made by President Kenyatta are based on one’s ability to perform and are bringing all parts of the country together. A Jubilee-ODM partnership, he said, would go a long way in wiping out tribal politics for the next government to excel. “Raila is a very good man when he decides to work and when Central and Nyanza regions come together, the country is able to move forward,” Nduati said. The peace has spread to the National Assembly where legislators from the two parties have ceased being at each other's throat. The MP said those in Jubilee opposed to the President should be thrown out of the party. “The Jubilee house is big enough to accommodate anyone of like mind and those who support the President are the ones we will consider in 2022,” Nduati said.