A $200 million consignment of gold bars and nuggets destined for Dubai was seized by authorities at the airport on suspicion it was being smuggled from the war-torn DRC. Our informers say the cargo — already loaded, with the flight ready to take off — was detected by hawk-eyed security men, some from a UN agency. The exporters were asked to produce documents showing the origin and destination but were unable to do so. Investigations were launched. It is believed the cargo, estimated at Sh20 billion, is linked to a member of the UAE ruling family working with a flashy young businessman who ran for MP from a Nyanza county. Powerful individuals in government are also said to be linked to the syndicate. DCI, Interpol and Customs officers are tracking the consignment's owners, who have vanished.  ****  Is Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti about to probe the Nyamira-based Bunyunyu Dam project? Corridors of Power is privy to information that the DCI is zeroing in on the controversial Sh4.5 billion project, said to be another gravy train for corrupt public officers and politicians. There are claims construction of the dam could have been hurriedly executed without necessary approvals, including lack of public participation. In the wake of the DCI’s renewed fight against graft, detectives are said to have been dispatched to Nyamira to collect preliminary information and documents to help unearth what could turn out to be an earth-shaking scandal. **** An MP who has endeared himself to cane farmers as the face of reform in the sugar sector yesterday was overheard protesting bitterly that he was being cut out of the action. ODM leader Raila Odinga sidelined him when the Opposition chief held a high-profile meeting with Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri at Raila's Capitol Hill office on Monday. Raila was accompanied by only Suna East MP Junet Mohamed and Seme MP James Nyikal, while a meeting was earlier scheduled on Monday in Kisumu. The angry lawmaker who recently met some farmers was heard vowing not only to skip the Monday meeting but also ensure that other stakeholders do not take part — until the CS understands the people who matter in the industry. ****** A controversial politician from Rift Valley, who recently lashed out at President Uhuru Kenyatta over "hypocrisy" in anti-graft fight, is fearing for his life and has resorted to driving home before dusk. The vocal politician yesterday was overheard telling colleagues in the corridors of Parliament how the President’s tough talk yesterday sent jitters down his spine and why he feels threatened. Without elaborating, the MP said some of his adversaries may capitalise on his altercation with the President to harm him. The MP has come out guns blazing, accusing the President of throwing his Deputy William Ruto under the bus.