Deputy President William Ruto has hit out at ODM party leader Raila Odinga over the expulsion of Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa. Ruto accused Raila of political deceit, trying to create a rift in Jubilee Party and arbitrarily expelling members from ODM. Speaking in Jaribuni on Saturday during a fundraising in aid of women groups in Jaribuni, Ruto said the whole nation will stand with Aisha Jumwa to make sure she is not mistreated. “You cannot claim to be uniting Kenyans when you create divisions in other political parties and expel members from your own party. This is being dishonest to the country and political conmanship. Expelling people from your party does not unite Kenyans," Ruto said. "You cannot unite Kenyans by expelling Aisha Jumwa from the party for her development relationship with the deputy president of the republic of Kenya." Ruto said no politician needs permission to interact with any leader in the country. “It is shameful for a party leader to convene a whole National Executive Council to plan how to expel a woman. Men with their beards sitting to discuss a woman is shameful. It is not acceptable in this 21st century,” he said. Ruto said the biggest challenge Kenya is facing today is dishonest leaders who do the opposite of what they say. “What they are accusing Aisha of doing has been done by many men including the party leader. Why don’t they tackle the men and leave the woman alone? Any political party or political leader that organises and orchestrates to undermine women has no place in the 21st century.” Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa urged residents to support Ruto in his bid for the presidency. Read: Aisha Jumwa officially expelled from ODM She said she will not intimidated by her party. Lunga lunga MP Khatib Mwashetani said the ODM party is planning to destabilise Aisha but the electorate will salvage her. “The party is planning to cut Aisha’s legs but you who elected her will not accept that. I know you will stand with her to the very end,” he said. The function was also attended by Wundanyi MP Dan Mwashako, Lamu East MP Muthama, Lamu Senator Anwar Oloitiptip and Kilifi Woman representative Getrude Mbeyu. Also Read: Political parties tribunal bars ODM from expelling Jumwa Click here for the latest political news