The need to leave an inheritance for children is rising among Kenyans, a new study has revealed. Titled The Attitude To Inheritance in Kenya, it reveals that people with asset value below Sh5million and those above Sh100 million are the most concerned about leaving wealth for their children, with 84 per cent of the respondents placing importance on inheritance. The survey was conducted by pension administrator, Enwealth Financial services in partnership with Strathmore University and Institute of Human Resource Management. It shows that 47 per cent have invested in land and buildings, 16 per cent in pension funds, 26 per cent in Saccos while 11 per cent have cash. “They care so much about legacy and what to leave for their children,” Enwealth business development director Michelle Nyandiko said. The respondents placing importance on inheritance aged 31-40 years. From the study, only a third of the respondents thought of leaving their wealth to the supporting organizations driven by a desire to leave a mark in the society either in charity or philanthropy. Nomination of beneficiaries is the preferred method for succession planning, and only 41 per cent of the respondents have a written will, with 40 per cent relying on next of kin nominations, 20 per cent on verbal declarations and five per cent confide in one family member to formalise their succession. “Kenyans do not have a will because of cultural beliefs relating to deaths, lack of trust, lack of awareness and fear of legal expenses,” the report said. Over 70 per cent of the respondents in the study requires financial planning and legal advice to make a will. The report also showed that 65 per cent of respondents have at least 30 per cent of their assets in pension funds with 39 per cent of those indicating that they will use the funds for further investments and 37 per cent saying they will buy an annuity from the trustees. According to Strathmore University doctoral fellow Mary Kipkemoi, there is need for a policy to include compulsory pension plan system. Data from the Retirement Benefits Authority (RBA) shows that pension coverage among employed Kenyans hit 20 per cent in the year to June 2017, going up from 16.7 per cent in 2015.