Jubilee faces tough times ahead in sustaining its support in the vote-rich western Kenya after the sacking of Rashid Echesa as Sports cabinet secretary. Echesa was dismissed in changes announced by President Uhuru Kenyatta in an Executive Order published last Friday. His position was handed to Amina Mohamed who vacates the Education docket to Knec chairman George Magoha. The move saw staunch Jubilee diehards in the sacked CS’ backyard mount pressure on the government to come clean on the decision. At the weekend, Mumias East MP Benjamin Washiali - a key ally of Deputy President William Ruto in the region, made a veiled reference that the region will reconsider its support for Jubilee. The lawmaker accused President Uhuru Kenyatta of working with Raila Odinga, through the handshake, to frustrate Western leaders. “We want the government to be straightforward and tell us the truth. If not, we will not accept and will show them our stand (ostensibly at the ballot) in time to come,” Washiali said. The legislator revisited the removal of Moses Wetang’ula as Minority leader of the Senate saying it was part of the handshake plot. The MP said it would have been in order for Uhuru to call all leaders from Western – like was the case ahead of the Mashujaa Day celebrations, before he sacked ‘the only Wanga to have been named minister’ since independence. “Uhuru should have called the team to explain to us where Echesa went wrong. The Sports ministry has not been featured in grand corruption,” Washiali said. During a funeral in Matungu on Saturday, Echesa said he did not know why he was sacked, adding that he will continue supporting Deputy President William Ruto. “I am still waiting to be told why I was fired. Let my supporters not worry. I will hit the ground running to campaign for Ruto after I hand over to the incoming minister,” he said. Kimilili MP Didmus Barasa said talk of sacking corrupt Cabinet ministers is geared towards stopping pro-Ruto campaigns. But Cotu Secretary General Francis Atwoli said those condemning the president are out to auction Luhyas for selfish gains.