Free primary education hangs in the balance after headteachers said it was unsustainable due to lack of funding. The Education ministry says it needs increased allocation to sustain the programme launched in 2003. Headteachers say calls to review funding have been ignored for the last eight years. Parents say they are already paying to cater for essentials in struggling schools. “The capitation allocated to our primary schools is in dire need of review... The ministry must seek for funds from the Treasury if the programme is to be sustained,” PS Belio Kipsang told MPs on Tuesday. “As it is at the moment, capitation has remained the same since 2003.” Read: State releases half of free education funds, schools say funds yet to reach them Belio’s remarks leaves the programme in doubt with the Treasury retaining the capitation for the next two years. The government funds primary schools depending on the number of students. Each student is allocated Sh1,420. Headteachers say they have had to change budgets to cater for essentials. The teachers yesterday said they write assignments and assessment tests on blackboards due to lack of funds to buy required materials. The government allocates only Sh11 per student for examinations, including the assessment tests. It is one of the least funded functions in public schools. In a report submitted to Education CS Amina Mohamed in December last year, the headteachers recommended the capitation be increased to Sh8,077. Kenya Primary Schools Heads Association said the money would cater for the increased cost of living. The report also recommended the government change the way it funds expenses such as electricity and water bills, support staff wages and give equal funds across the country instead of per child. “FPE is helping children who could otherwise be out of school but we need the government to increase capitation for smooth operations,”KEPSHA national secretary David Mavuta said yesterday. The Treasury has allocated Sh13,401,000,000 in the next budget for capitation for free primary education and low cost boarding in public primary schools. Read: CS on the spot over free education fund delay More: The plight of Free Primary Education Click here for the latest political news 