Kenya’s private sector activity slid further in February, from 53.2 in January to 51.2 in February, signalling only a modest improvement in the health of the Kenyan private sector economy. The Markit Stanbic Bank Kenya Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) for manufacturing and services fell from 53.6 in December. East Africa's regional economist with Stanbic Bank Jibran Qureishi said the results are not surprising given that the first quarter of the year is characterised by dry weather, a cyclical trend which is expected to change as the year progresses. "As the long rains commence towards March and April, activity generally tends to recover boosting domestic demand," he said. There were new export orders in February courtesy of the valentine season flower sales to Europe which gave its support to the shilling. The report however indicates that new orders slowed to the weakest in the current expansion sequence, with more than 25 per cent of firms reporting a fall in sales due to softer customer demand. New export order growth remained sharp, inching up to a four-month high, with evidence showing that there was increased trade with neighbouring Tanzania. Activity increased at the lowest rate in 15 months, with some manufacturers reducing output due to cash flow problems and unfavourable weather conditions. Selling prices charged by Kenyan private sector firms remained broadly unchanged in February, following 14 months of successive increases. Some firms that saw sales decline said they lowered prices to attract new customers, while some firms raised prices due to higher input costs. The report further shows that during the month purchasing quantities rose at a slower rate, leading to a weaker increase in stocks of inputs. On the jobs front, employment continued to grow at a moderate rate, with companies hiring both permanent and casual workers in February, in a third consecutive decline in backlogs. Backlogs of work at Kenyan businesses dropped for the third consecutive month in February, with over 14 per cent of firms seeing outstanding work fall as output grew at a quicker pace than new orders. Latest data also indicated the longest sequence of declining backlogs since late 2017. However, the rate of decrease was modest and softer than in January, the report indicated.