Medical practitioners in the country have been urged to familiarise themselves with Anti-doping matters to ensure they play their rightful role in the fight against doping. Speaking during a sensitization session for clinical officers drawn from North and South Rift regions, Adak director in charge of education and research, Agnes Mandu, said the main aim of the program is to empower the clinical officers to make informed decisions while dealing with athletes to avoid inadvertent doping. Mandu revealed that the sensitisation targeting medical practitioners will be conducted countrywide to ensure all personnel are adequately sensitised. “Part of the Agency’s broad mandate is to carry out a co-ordinated nationwide anti-doping education campaign. In line with this, we have for the past two and-a-half years reinvigorated our information sharing approach to ensure we take care of athletes and any other person who gets into contact with them. In this endeavour, we recognise the invaluable role played by medical personnel,” she added. Speaking during the same function Adak standards and compliance director, Sarah Shibutse, reiterated the need for clinical officers to be aware of the kind of medication they dispense to athletes. “In our results management process we have come to the realisation that sometimes athletes test positive for prohibited substances out of unknowingly ingesting medication containing the substances. Therefore, we feel it is extremely important to sensitise this group on some of the issues around anti-doping. Other times we have come across athletes who present forged medical documents during their defence in court. Most of those documents, we have established, are given by clinical officers who may be doing it to assist the athlete without any knowledge of the repercussions,” said Shibutse. The Agency has experienced an increase in the number of athletes applying for Therapeutic Use Exemptions (TUEC), owing to the ongoing sensitisation efforts aimed at promoting a clean sporting environment in Kenya.