President Uhuru Kenyatta has scoffed those against the war on corruption, saying protestations in funerals and wedding ceremonies won't help. Speaking when he officially opened the Sixth Annual Devolution Conference in Kirinyaga county yesterday, President Kenyatta challenged those attempting to blackmail him to book an appointment with DCI George Kinoti if they have evidence he has stolen anything or involved in graft. Uhuru said the war on corruption has been left to experts and expressed hope that the officers have the ability to do the job. “So this issue of people complaining every day should stop. I saw another person complain that I have stolen from someone. My advice to the aggrieved person is that they should walk to Karura and report o the DCI offices what I have stolen,” he said in Kiswahili. The Directorate of Criminal Investigations is housed in Mazingira House, opposite to Karura Forest on Kiambu Road. He said he won’t be intimidated by those threatening or blackmailing him in funerals. “Huyo mtu ambaye amekufa hatakuasidia (The deceased will not be of help to you,” Uhuru said. “Go there [DCI] and present your case and say Uhuru has stolen this or that. No one is preventing you from doing that,” he said. Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi and other Rift Valley politicians on Sunday said the President and ODM leader Raila Odinga are using the fight against corruption to harass innocent Kenyans especially those allied to Ruto. "When Ruto supported Raila he was not a thief, when he backed Uhuru he was not a thief, but now that his turn for the top seat has come you say he is a thief," Sudi said. The MP said Uhuru and Raila "should not pretend to be holy". "When the issue of JKIA came up, they decided to use the Elgeyo Marakwet dams to cover up the plan to take over the airport. We know a lot about them," Sudi added. Responding to Uhuru's remarks on his Facebook account yesterday, Sudi said, Well,well, well said Mr. President, I agree with you that we must not address these issues in funerals, weddings or other public functions. But unfortunately, Uhuru is DCI and DCI is Uhuru." Sudi also claimed that DCI Kinoti is was being used to target innocent people in the war on graft. However, the President said moving around and complaining will not help adding that everyone suspected to have been engaged in corrupt dealing will have an opportunity to defend himself or herself in court. “Why do you have to take it to funerals? How is it helping anybody?” posed the President. Uhuru said the war on corruption was not targeting any individual or community, but those robbing Kenyans the opportunity to build the nation with shared prosperity for all. He said his government has put in place proactive and prevention programmes as well as asset recovery plan to guard and recover stolen public resources. He pledged his support to state agencies involved in war on corruption and called on the Judiciary to play its part to ensure justice is expedited. He called on Kenyans to desist from creating barriers, hurdles and obstacles for state agencies involved and instead cooperate with them He appealed to all the governors to join him in the war, say no to corruption and reign in on the corrupt in their respective governments with a shared renewed zeal. He said during a summit with governors at Sagana state lodge, in Nyeri on Monday, they agreed to have a seating to dialogue on prudent use of taxpayers’ money so they can ensure the a good share of it benefit Kenyans. He said it is unfortunate that 52 per cent of the country’s revenue goes to salaries, 30 per cent spent in recurrent expenditure while only 20 per cent goes to development. He cited one county which he did not name saying it receives Sh 9billion in revenue, with Sh 6 billion being used to pay 6000 employees while only Sh 3 billion is directed to service delivery to over two million residents. “There is also another county which spends Sh 600 million to oversight Sh 800 million. Now, does that makes sense?” posed the president. “So yesterday together with my fellow leaders we agreed that there should be time for us to have a national conference on this issue for us to be able to come up with a clear guidelines and policy to tackle the issue.” He said failure to do so, the leaders will not be doing justice to the people adding that all stakeholders should be involved in a bid to ensure most of the funds goes to development activities.