Baringo leaders and professionals are wrangling over the site of a proposed university. The choice of the location revolves around Baringo Technical College-Kapsoo, Moi Teachers’ College-Seretunin in Baringo Central and Chemeron in Baringo South. Baringo South MP Charles Kamuren yesterday said the institution should be at the 1,000-acre property in Chemeron, near Marigat town. “This is an ideal wide space to host the university as it is centrally located and quite serene for learning,” Kamuren said But Deputy Governor Jacob Chepkwony will hear none of that and wants Moi Teachers College Seretunin to be converted into the county university. “We met with all county leaders in 2015 and proposed the university to go to Moi Teachers’. Who is Kamuren to oppose the idea?” Chepkwony asked. He was addressing mourners at the burial of Kabarnet chief Eric Rotich at Seretunin on Saturday. But Baringo South professionals led by William Tengecha were bitter with the deputy governor’s assertion and gave him 48 hours to apologise to Kamuren. They accused Chepkwony of portraying the legislator as an enemy of development. Governor Stanley Kiptis in December last year said that Moi Teachers’-Seretunin was the ideal place for university.  bewitched? Nobody has ever commented on his suggestion although Baringo North MP William Cheptumo, Water CS Simon Chelugui and Irrigation PS Fred Segor are said to support the site. Cheptumo said, “The government allocates millions annually to county universities ... we regret that we cannot account for Sh2 billion”. Chelugui said it is awkward in this era to have students from Baringo camping in counties far away from home in pursuit of learning. “And yet it is all because of the perceived laxity from us leaders,” he said. The county no longer has a constituent university after Egerton, Kisii, Bugema and Mt Kenya shut their campuses in Kabarnet between 2012 and 2018. “We don’t know who bewitched our county so that no single university or college survives. Another challenge will arise when leaders convert the already existing institutions into universities,” Baringo North resident Eric Bett commented. Plans to have the university at Baringo Technical Training Institute-Kapsoo flopped after the local community refused to donate land for its expansion. Senator Gideon Moi’s suggestion that the university should be at Chemeron was snubbed by fellow politicians, arguing it is it far from Kabarnet town, the county headquarters.