The Sh2.5 billion Miwani alleged land fraud case involving former magistrate Abdulkadir Elkindy proceeds today. A ruling date will be set to determine whether the suspects have a case to answer or not. The case was adjourned in late January. Today the prosecution and the defense teams are expected to present their written submissions. Former magistrate Elkindy and seven others were charged with conspiring to defraud the miller of the 9.3 acres between 2007 and 2008. They denied wrongdoing. The others are Kibos Sugar Company chairman Sukhwinder Singh, director of Crossley Holdings Ltd Ian Mawa, Philips Katiba, Moses Nyaburo, Kefa Lumumba, Epainto Apono and Crossley Holdings Ltd. Principal magistrate Julius Ng’arng’ar had asked for more time when he adjourned the session to allow the secretary who has been sick to finish typing the case proceedings. Last month, the court heard that certificates of consent authorising the disputed ownership transfer of Sh2.3 billion Miwani Sugar Company land was issued to two entities. A former Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission officer Stanley Miriti told Ng’arng’ar the consent was issued to Crossley Limited and Agro Chemical Housing Cooperative. Miriti investigated the alleged fraud. The prosecution witness produced the two certificates as exhibits. He said they had the same serial number but were addressed to different parties. Miriti told the court that minutes of a meeting were forged — one handwritten and the other typed. “We were furnished with the minutes upon request at the Nyando District office. They both had the signature of the chair and secretary,” he said. Defence lawyer Richard Onso asked Miriti to task to explain if he subjected the certificates to scrutiny after finding inconsistency. Miriti said he had not. The lawyer asked if he knew some of the accused and the reason they were arraigned. Miriti said he did not know the circumstances of the charges. He said he forwarded the case to the DPP after completing investigations. In April, High Court judge Olga Sewe, whose signature appeared on the documents that initiated the transfer, said it was forged. “I’m not the person who signed the document. It has several anomalies, including printings that indicate it was signed in 2000 and not 1993 as claimed,” she said. Another witness, judicial officer Paul Ombaja, denied any knowledge of a case file existing in 1993. “We were unable to trace it because there was no register,” Ombaja said in April.