In Kenya’s history, the monster of corruption has never been discussed
as vigorously as it is today. Many say this is as a result of increased freedom of media but it is
also because of increased graft at all levels, that it can hardly misses the
attention of our hawkish media. A point I would like to make is that corruption has done well to
increase the poverty of the people, stagnation of development and demise of our
hope to get to the Promised Land. Notwithstanding, let me also point out that unless corruption is
eradicated, it will kill the Big Four agenda and President Uhuru Kenyatta’s
legacy just as it predictably crippled Vision 2030, which we no longer hear
much about. Since this war is led by Uhuru, DP William Ruto, Raila Odinga, Kalonzo Musyoka
and Musalia Mudavadi — who unfortunately also lead the major ethnic communities
— I must ask these leaders to be above suspicion like Caesar’s wife. They must
never be associated with graft or be accused of not paying rates and taxes as
some already have. And when leaders are accused of benefiting or perpetuating corruption,
they must be humble enough to defend themselves as the late President Levy Mwanawasa
of Zambia never allowed a challenge to pass without rebuttal. In fact, if these leaders will lead the war against graft, they must as
soon as they can, subject themselves to a personal audit and defend their
wealth or surrender their leadership positions. But why do leaders seem like lame duck in the fight against corruption?
Is it the nature of our leaders to be corrupt and defend graft or are they
unable to fight corruption because they are  beneficiaries? Despite complaints against corruption by the people, they are number one
reason why graft continues to grow because they continue to elect corrupt
leaders into positions of power. If we sow lemon trees, do you harvest oranges?
When we elect corrupt leaders, we cannot expect them to be saints once they are
in power. The truth is, even as we desire to end graft, we think less of its roots
and how to defeat it. If we look around the world, the least corrupt countries are those with
social welfare, pro-people systems, while those that rank high on corruption
are those with anti-people social and economic systems. We will not root out corruption if we trust our development and resource
distribution to our capitalist anti-people system that we now have. It is no
accident that most countries that we today define as developed have social welfare systems that ensure
maximum development of the economy and equitable distribution of resources. Corruption will continue to plague Kenya and condemn us to abject
poverty if we continue to trust our fate to the least equitable economic
system. Instead of being agents of equitable resource distribution, the only
reason most people seek leadership is to acquire wealth as quickly as they can.
So our leaders are agents, not of wealth to people but self-enrichment. To win the war on corruption, we must demonise it. We cannot admire it and
still be able to fight it. And as Aih Kwei Armah wrote in his book The Beautiful Ones Are Not Yet Born, you
cannot seek cleanliness from human waste and love to eat maggots from that same
waste. When we fight corruption, we must start with old graft that we might
have benefited from. Indeed, if we are shy to fight the roots because we
benefited from them, then there is nothing that we are doing. We are however the strangest people that ever-fought corruption. We fail
to ask suspects to step aside from their offices or recuse themselves from
trials to ensure no evidence is interfered with because we want to remain nice
to victims and beneficiaries. Ultimately, we must never kid ourselves that we can fight corruption or
recover its proceeds by putting corrupt people in charge of this war. It is self-defeatist. But again, it does not seem like the current crop of leaders can crack
the nut of corruption from which they have benefited from.  