ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi wants President Uhuru Kenyatta to freeze all dealings involving public assets until public confidence is restored. He said public confidence in the Jubilee administration’s ability to manage public finance and assets is shaken and can no longer be trusted. “These past few days alone, Kenyans have been treated to mutually contradictory official explanations of what could be happening to their finances with regard to purported procurement to construct dams across the country,” Mudavadi said. It is alleged Sh21 billion has been misappropriated in the projects. Deputy President William Ruto termed the alleged loss a flat lie saying only Sh7 billion was paid out. Read: Flat lie? DP Ruto denies loss of Sh21 billion in dams scandal Mudavadi said people entrusted with protecting public interest have turned out to be public enemies. The ANC boss said the country has experienced unbridle State-driven corruption in mega scams such as in KPLC, Galana Kulalu, NYS, Ketraco, NHIF, Afya House, Eurobond and IEBC. The Jubilee administration, he said, can no longer be trusted. “The only assignment left for Uhuru is a frontal war against the grand larceny in his government,” Mudavadi said. He said the open State-driven embezzlement of funds in the government has opened up space for similar activities in county governments. Mudavadi said the proposed controversial merger between KQ and JKIA smacks of a mega corruption scheme the government wants to employ. Mudavadi said the deal must be made public. “We cannot keep wondering when these people will get satisfied. Must they bleed the country up to its very last drop of blood to feed their thirst for wealth?” he asked. Speaking on Thursday at ANC headquarters, Mudavadi condemned the brutal manner in which the government dealt with aviation workers on Wednesday. Read also: Passengers stranded at JKIA as aviation workers begin strike He said the Kenya Aviation Workers Union gave a strike notice and called for dialogue but the government never engaged them. “The people in charge of industrial relations in government should have been sacked by now. Mr President, what are you waiting for? Mudavadi asked. He said the confusion surrounding the merger is happening just months after Kenya opened direct flights to the US. “What message is the government giving to those who opened up the US market to them? Besides, KQ is a company on the stock market,” he said. On Wednesday, striking aviation workers were tear gassed at JKIA as they protested the intended merger. The resultant chaos caused delays in at least 26 flights. Click here for the latest political news.