The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission Western Kenya regional office has been put on the spot following outbursts by a first-term MP from Siaya County who has an active file in regard to misuse of National Government CDF funds. The MP has been heard bragging on several occasions that the file will never see light of day because he was a schoolmate of a senior EACC officer in the region. His constituents are baffled and want EACC chief executive Twalib Mbarak to intervene and end the chest thumping by their MP. ***** A former commissioner who left office weeks ago seems to have not had enough in the six years he was in office. The man has been sneaking back into the office and spending most of the time with the acting CEO whom he has been overheard bragging that he installed. His occasional visits, other than worrying staff, is said to be geared at propping up the CEO to victimise and harass directors and officers the former commissioner has unsettled scores. The man is also said to be pushing for his interests. Astonishingly, he still demands to be treated as a commissioner - something junior staff find weird. ***** The phrase ‘women are their own enemies’ could be a reality if events in Parliament ahead of the failed vote on the two-thirds gender bill is anything to go by. Hours before the House convened for the afternoon sittings, a number of women MPs were overheard complaining that those pushing for the vote want people to win seats without a sweat. The lot was categorical that the gender question will be balanced at the ballot, but not by a way of ‘dishing out’ posts which in most cases end up to mistresses of party bosses. ***** IS controversial musician Akothee planning to run for Migori Woman Representative seat in 2022? The musician who hails from Rongo subcounty comes from a long history of politicians in the family. In 2017, attempts by a section of residents to push her to the ballot stalled because her mother, a former majority leader and nominated MCA in the Migori assembly was vying for a ward seat. Her brother, a lawyer also attempted to vie for the speaker seat. Her decision to step aside followed her family’s close political ties with Governor Okoth Obado and former Rongo MP Dalmas Otieno, two allies in last polls who are most likely not to vie in 2022 and have approached her to consider joining the political ring. Our moles whispered to us that already some members have branded themselves as TeamAkothee and have already hit the ground. Click here for the latest political news