At least 30,000 university students risk missing out on education loans after providing false information to Helb. The Higher Education Loans Board says the applicants understated their family details and income to appear needy and deserving. Helb uses information provided by the applicant about their family or guardian to assess need. Those affected are candidates who sat the KCSE exam in 2017 and qualified for university places under government sponsorship. Their loans amount to Sh1.25 billion. The board discovered that many of the 64,000 first-time applicants provided information that was not consistent with what is contained in the government’s Integrated Population Registration System. “Students think that by lying they stand a better chance to secure the loans,” Helb boss Charles Ringera told the Star on Monday. He said students lying about personal information disadvantagethose who are genuinely needy. Helb uses the information to verify financial ability of a student’s family. Needy students are given the first priority. The board has partnered with the Interior ministry to verify information declared by students. The new IPRS system reveals information that may flag declarations by students in their application forms. Helb says once contraditions are discovered, the affected students are banned from accessing subsequent loans. IPRS aims to merge the country’s registration databases into one under the Interior ministry. The system is designed to capture and produce details of an individual’s immediate family based on data on government documents one has acquired such as ID, birth certificate or passport. This means Helb can use the IPRS information to search a student’s parents’/ guardian’s occupation and income based on KRA registration. However, student leaders have protested against Helb’s action. “If Helb notes that one of your parents is working, then it is hard for you to access a loan. But some of the comrades have many siblings and the parent can barely meet all their expenses. This is the reason some opt to lie,” Kenya University Students Organisation chairperson Anthony Manyara told the Star yesterday. A University of Nairobi student said his parents advised him to lie because his sibling might not get the loan if he gave true information about their financial status. Helb has disbursed Sh90 billion to 820,000 students in loans since its inception. Ringera said they target to increase the minimum loan to each student from the current Sh40,000 to Sh44,000 by 2022. The number of beneficiaries will grow from 296,219 today to 375,986. Helb is funding 24,252 students in TVET colleges and the Ministry of Education is engaging Treasury for more funds.