The secrecy in the planned takeover of JKIA by Kenya Airways fueled yesterday’s strike by aviation workers, MPs said. The National Assembly's Transport Committee said the controversial deal has sparked off anxiety among workers who fear losing their jobs. Kenya Airways is seeking to enter a Private Initiated Investment Proposal (PPIP) that will allow it to operate and manage the country’s biggest airport. The annual concession fee has been set at Sh2.9 billion. It is projected to rise to Sh3.6 billion and peak at Sh6.1 billion in 2033. The deal has been opposed by many quarters including politicians who cited losses. Yesterday, workers boycotted work in protest against the deal. The boycott caused flight disruptions. “The workers are legitimately on strike. People don’t know what will happen when KQ takes over JKIA. Workers fear they may wake up one day and find the yellow colour of KAA flag changed,” Pokot South MP David Pkosing said. Pkosing is the chairman of the committee. He spoke at a press conference at Parliament Buildings yesterday. The Pokot South MP assured the workers that the takeover will not happen without the approval of Parliament, “much as the Executive may want to push this through.” Pkosing said: “No marriage will happen between KQ and KAA unless Parliament is involved. Kenya Airways and Kenya Airport Authority lied to this committee on this matter. They also ignored their primary clients - the employees.” He was flanked by MPs Moses Kuria (Gatundu South), Mugambi Murwithania (Buri), Tom Odege (Nyatike), Vincent Kemosi (West Mugirango), Rigathi Gachagua (Mathira), Gideon Mulyungi (Mwingi Central), and Ahmed Bashane (Tarbaj). The committee further attributed the strike to the salary discrepancies at KQ, a situation he said has equally contributed to the ‘loss making’ airlines’ bloated wage bill. “We have written a letter to the management to spell out the pay structure and the justification for what is paid to every worker,” he said adding that the committee has seized of the KQ question. Other issues causing anxiety among the airline’s workers is that of fuel hedging – controlling use of fuel to cushion airline from increased prices, and lack of clarity in the ownership of Kenya Airways. Hundreds of passengers were stranded after a number of flights, some that were scheduled from as early as 3am, were cancelled while others were rescheduled. The Kenya Aviation Workers Union staged the strike citing the takeover and pay discrepancies, especially in the top management. The union leader Moss Ndiema was arrested over the strike. Transport CS James Macharia said the strike is illegal adding that action will be taken against KAWU officials for the security breaches that followed the strike. “If you are to strike, you should have done it at home. Striking here is kind of committing a crime,” the Cabinet Secretary said. Kenya Airways has defended the deal saying it would cushion the country from a shrinking market share compared to the performance by its peers. Embakasi MP Babu Owino, speaking separately, defended the workers saying the “planned takeover will be a tall order for the proponents.”