Kenyan champions Gor Mahia will hope to end their North African jinx when they battle NA Hussein Dey of Algeria in their fourth CAF Confederations Cup Pool ‘D’ match at the State Juillet Stadium in Algiers tomorrow. Recent trips to North Africa have proved tricky for Gor Mahia losing 2-1 to another Algerian outfit, USM Alger, in the Champions League last season. They had earlier succumbed 1-0 to Esperance of Tunisia, also in the Champions League. The two North African sides managed to salvage a point each in Nairobi. Gor Mahia coach Hassan Oktay will not have the luxury of selecting his first choice goalkeeper Boniface Oluoch and centre half Joash Onyango during their Caf Confederations Cup return match against NA Hussein Dey of Algeria at the Stade Juillet in Algiers tomorrow. The two, alongside seasoned winger, George ‘Blackberry’ Odhiambo were left behind as they failed to pass late fitness tests when the club jetted out yesterday for their fourth pool ‘D’ match. Oluoch limped off during their midweek SportPesa Premier League match against Tusker shortly after receiving his marching orders for handling the ball outside his territory where he bore the brunt of a collision with David Juma. Onyango, who missed the first leg played at Kasarani last weekend on suspension, suffered a knock against the brewers and thus out of the travelling party. Blackberry is also ineligible through suspension. However, team manager Jolawi Obondo remained optimistic that their replacements will do duty for the club. The club will also be boosted by the return of veteran forward Dennis Oliech, who returns to the team after being excluded from the first leg for what was explained as a tactical move by CEO Omondi Aduda. “We will miss Onyango and Oluoch who are injured but out of the 20 players the coach will choose their replacements. Oliech is also back to the squad after missing the previous match against the same opponent,” said Obondo. Fredrick Odhiambo and Charles Momanyi are the likeliest of replacements for the duo. Gor top the pool with six points and will be gunning an away win or a draw and at the same time hope that second placed Petro Atletico who host a bottom placed Zamalek in Luanda Angola will labor for an even result. The Kenyan champions who are seeking to sail to the quarter finals will hope to break their North African jinx before heading to another tough away match to Zamalek  on March 10.