Sofapaka coach John Baraza has warned his players against underrating unheralded Bungoma Super Stars as the SportPesa Shield Cup round of 32 gets underway next weekend. Last year’s beaten finalists were drawn against the National Division One side and Baraza has down-played fielding his second string squad for the match as he eyes both the league and Shield Cup silverware. The organisers of the tournament slashed the participating teams to 32 in this year’s edition, thanks to the congestion of the league matches as well as the rush to meet the May deadline. However, despite the addition of the Shield matches to their already congested roaster, Baraza counts on the depth in his side to successfully reclaim both the league title and the Cup. Earlier on before the draws were conducted, 2016 champions Tusker withdrew from the tournament, saying they wanted to concentrate their efforts towards winning the league. “These grass root based clubs have talented players and we can’t afford to underrate them. My players are aware winning the Cup will earn us a place in continental football and every opponent must be approached with the respect they deserve. The cup will not distract our plan to win the league as we have enough depth,” he said. Meanwhile, Kariobangi Sharks will launch their bid to defend the cup away to Trans Nzoia-based Elim FC while 2017 champions AFC Leopards will host Transfoc. Gor Mahia were paired against Kenpoly while Bandari will travel to play Marsabit-based Kayo FC. Western Stima will tackle Uprising FC while Ulinzi Stars will be home against Coast based SS Assad. National Super League leaders Ushuru will play Vihiga Sportif while third placed Wazito will take on Fortune Sacco. At the same time, Naivas team manager, Charles Kimani hinted of playing a top flight side in a friendly match after getting an easy qualification to the round of 16 following Tusker’s withdrawal. Naivas were drawn against the 11-time Kenyan champions who relinquished their spot hence the former were confirmed to have booked a place in the next round. “We will get a top flight team and play a friendly match on that weekend to ascertain our readiness for the round of 16 and the other rounds.”