A tussle is simmering between the National Land Commission and the Kenya Forest Service over 419 acres claimed by squatters. KFS has questioned the motive behind NLC’s degazettement of the land in Kiambu county. While NLC says the Sh12 billion forest should be shared by squatters, KFS insists the property should revert to the government. The KFS wants the custody of the land to safeguard public interest. “Why did NLC hurriedly hand over the parcel to the squatters yet it was never degazetted?”asked a KFS official who requested anonymity. “The claim by squatters [to have the land degazetted] is allowed. The allotment letters issued by members of the second claimant (Kamiti Anmer Development Association) are found to be valid and therefore the rightful occupants of the subject land,” the NLC says in its recommendations. The Kamiti Gazetted Forest has been at the centre of protracted ownership wrangles. Embroiled in the dispute are Kamiti Development Association, Kamiti Forest Squatters Association, Muungano wa Kamiti Group, Kamiti Anmer Development Welfare Group and the Kenya Forest Service. In November last year the National Assembly Lands Committee toured the parcel. Committee chair Rachael Nyamai was accompanied by colleagues Joshua Kuttuny (Cherangany), Waruguru Catherine (Laikipia), Sunkuyia George Risa (Kajiado West) and Kingara Simon Ng’ang’a (Ruiru). “Why did NLC allow politicians to drive the process?” the furious KFS official said in an interview with the Star. The official said NLC “seemed to have made the decision long time ago.” The term of NLC commissioners ended on February 19. In 2009, the KFS cautioned unsuspecting Kenyans against being persuaded by persons claiming ownership of the land. The caveat in newspapers said boundaries of state forests or local authority forests can only be varied by recommendation of the KFS and approved by Parliament. “Further take notice that any person or persons, company or companies purporting to sell, purchase, assign and or otherwise deal with this gazetted forest land is doing so fraudulently and the alienation of any portion of this forest land is null and void,” part of the caveat said. The caveat, according to KFS, is still in force. Kamiti Forest was gazetted as a forest area in a 1933 proclamation. Subsequently, it was declared Central Forest via legal notice No. 174 of May 20, 1964, with its ownership vested in the state and the Kenya Forest Service. However, retired President Daniel Moi verbally gave out the forest land to squatters in 1995. The squatters had requested to be settled, through Cabinet minister Arthur Magugu at Kirigiti stadium. Moi’s acceptance of the request triggered the carving up of the forest. Consequently, Lands minister JK Mulinge jump-started the process of settlement via legal notice No. 179 of May 12, 1995. However, he did not involve the Ministry of Environment, whose mandate covers forests, making the whole process null and void. The Kiambu residents had raised concern over the forest as it had become a dumping site for murder victim bodies. KFS contended that the action was irregular as it was done without any reference to the then Forest Act CAP 385, which defines the procedure for excision of forest land. But Kiambu County Council demarcated the entire parcel as low density population site of one to five acre parcels.