The Executive should be expanded so that marginalised communities can have a chance to produce a President, Kajiado Governor Jospeh ole Lenku has said. "We need at least three extra positions at the top to enable political formations to accommodate the interests of the non-dominant communities," he said. Lenku spoke to the Star in a telephone interview on Sunday. The Governor is an ally of Deputy President William Ruto. The DP has rejected a rejected a referendum that seeks to create positions for individuals in government. Lenku said Executive power should be shared to incorporate inclusivity in government. He said as things stand marginalised communities will never attain the Presidency if numbers are the only parameter used to ascend to the top seat. On Thursday last week, Lenku presented his memorandum to the 14-member Building Bridges Initiative Task Force body through Deputy Governor Martin Moshisho. Lenku said he wants to make it clear to the Maa fraternity that he will always champion for an all-inclusivity government which will allow those viewed as “lesser” Kenyans play a role in the country’s leadership. Governor Lenku and his Narok counterpart Samuel Tunai are perceived to be lead players in DP Ruto’s political circles. Lenku said small communities should be protected and their dignity guarded for any healing to happen in the country. "We need to appreciate the role that the minority communities play in economic development. They deserve a place in both the national and county governments," said Lenku, who rarely calls the media to give political statements. In his presentation to the Building Bridges team in Kajiado town on Thursday, Lenku proposed that no county executive committee should draw its membership from only one community. "No matter where a county is, there should be no chance that a cabinet session can be conducted in a vernacular language for lack of ethnic diversity," he had. Other leaders in Kajiado also gave their views to the handshake team. They told the team chaired by Garissa Senator Yusuf Haji that other communities resident in the region should reserve certain leadership positions such the Governor, Senator, and Women Representative for indigenous people. Click here for the latest political news