Last Saturday, I marched with a group someone once referred to as Cape Town’s “entire alphabet soup of queers”, also known as the LGBTIQ+ community, to mark the high point of Gay Pride in this city. Different cities around the world hold similar parades. In its beginnings, it was an angry protest march often met with violence from the police or organised groups of homophobes in cities such as London and New York back in the 1970s. But Gay Pride has since become something of a tourist attraction in most of the cities and towns where it is marked. Gay Pride marches are all about the confidence, self-respect and solidarity, as expressed by gay people with each other and with gay communities around the world. But as more countries around the world decriminalise homosexuality and realise that being LGBTIQ+ is actually okay, a whole new bunch of allies, many of them former opponents of the cause, appear to have come around to the idea of supporting pride parades in their towns and cities. On the march, I had spotted a Christian faith group carrying banners of encouragement to the marchers and marching in solidarity with them, instead of standing on the sidelines, spewing hate, as one has grown to expect from such groups. In fact, I must say I didn’t spot a single group or even person on the march route who seemed to be actively opposed. Even the motorists held up by the marchers as they crossed various roads seemed to be in unusually good spirits. Goodwill seemed to breaking out all over the place. It’s an election year here in South Africa, and some political parties saw the parade as an occasion to canvass for votes among marchers. I only saw one marcher in an ANC T-shirt, and there seemed to be no official campaigners from that party in the parade. But the main opposition DA, which is also the ruling party of the Western Cape Province, had organised a parade float, and volunteers turned out in large numbers, dishing out party T-shirts and caps to marchers and onlookers alike. Followers of Patricia De Lille, known to her local supporters as Aunty Pat, the immediate former mayor of Cape Town who quit the DA to start the Good Party, also had a float in the parade. They took the opportunity to introduce themselves to potential supporters and voters by setting up a stand in the public park, where the march ended, and the Mardi Gras celebrations began. As well as the health and education NGOs who set up stands in the park, there were also a few traders who set up shop to sell food and drink. There was even a halal food stall serving delicious samosas and pies alongside rootis (chapatis to East Africans, rolled and stuffed with a mince beef or chicken curry filling). As all this was going on, I was trying to see the future, when a similar gathering could be held in a Kenyan city like Kisumu or Mombasa. I believe it will happen, and sooner than you think, and as people say nowadays, it will be LIT.