 The
ancient Greek philosopher and historian Polybius (200-118 BC) attributed the
social decay and destruction of the kingdom of Carthage to its political
corruption and weak moral values. The growth and prosperity of the Roman Empire
was traceable to its high discipline and political standards. Thus
in Carthage, the lax moral values ensured “nothing which results in profit is
regarded as disgraceful”, whilst in the Roman Empire, “unscrupulous gain from
forbidden sources” was condemned and the death penalty was the punishment for
bribery. During
the six-year Jubilee era Kenya is fast becoming the modern-day Carthage.  Like old Carthage, Kenya is soft on
corruption and nothing dramatizes this fact more than the irony of appointing a
retired priest in the person of Archbishop Eliud Wabukala to head the Ethics
and Anti-Corruption Commission.  As it is
with most white-collar crimes in Kenya, the law imposes soft punishments on
convicts of economic crimes. Invariably,
blue-collar crimes are punished by long imprisonment, including death in case
of robbery.  When it comes to corruption,
however, the punishment is “a fine not exceeding one million shillings, or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding ten years, or to both”. The provision for
the 10 years imprisonment is nothing but a red herring to pretend that
Parliament takes corruption seriously. Under the current legal framework, apart from
one’s personal morality, there are no genuine or effective checks against
involvement in corruption by any person with opportunity to do so. This
is precisely why in the wake of shocking revelations about the audacity of
stealing public funds for the construction of Arror and Kimwarer dams, many desperate
Kenyans, including Rev Timothy Njoya, have called for introduction of death
penalty to punish persons convicted of corruption. No
doubt severe punishment might help to scare off some potential criminals but
experience with crimes of robbery and murder in Kenya shows the death sentence –
which is never carried out anyway – does not scare many potential
criminals.  In other words, the problem
of corruption is deeper than most people realise and such superficial steps of
imposing severer punishments may not produce miracles. The immediate effect of the death sentence might be a steep rise in bribes to
corrupt the criminal justice system, resulting in fewer convictions as opposed
to reduction in commission of graft offences. 
Equally notable cajoling the Chief Justice to demand more convictions by
trial magistrates might help a bit so long as the renewed determination to
fight graft is not perceived as a temporary fight to achieve political ends. To
his credit, President Uhuru Kenyatta seems to be critically aware that
uncontrolled corruption is bound to drown Kenya and lead to state failure
unless drastic steps are taken immediately. 
Corruption is Kenya’s national cancer and we seem to be advancing
towards the irreversible stage three.  In
November 2015, Uhuru declared corruption a “national security threat” but
precisely because nothing tangible came out of that declaration the conspiracy
to procure expensive loans for Arror and Kimwarer dams, the brazen theft of
public funds in the so-called marginalised county of Samburu and other schemes
soon to be revealed continued unabated. To
cure any disease, you must first diagnose it properly.  It saddens me to admit that for the most part
corruption is part of the Kenyan DNA. Give your pastor half a chance and he
will clean up your finances.  As a
student in the 1980s, I used at most two pencils per term but today, pupils are
routinely required to deposit two dozens of pencils at school.  As a lawyer you cannot send clerks to lands
offices without giving money for their counterparts chai to “find” your file. 
Across the country you cannot drive out of a parking without a busybody
levying a “watching fee” on you.  In
short, petty and grand corruption have become a permanent feature of daily life. In
1972, the New York City Police Department formed the Knapp Commission to
inquire into and report on corruption among the officers.  The report identified two types of officers
who it labelled grass eaters and meat eaters. 
It described grass eaters as officers who occasionally engaged in
illegal and unethical activities such as cash or gifts in exchange for
non-enforcement of the law.  On the other
hand, meat eaters were described as officers who actively seek ways to make
illegal money while on duty.  Applying
this analogy to Kenya, meat eaters are the excellencies and honourables in
charge of Kenya’s 48 governments, independent offices, MPs, judicial officers,
parastatal chiefs and police chiefs. It
is safe to assume that Kenya’s grass caters are everyone between the watchman
and the MCA.  For many years, the
activities of the meat eaters in have devastated Kenya’s economy but the
anti-corruption laws make no distinction between them and the grass eaters who
engage in graft to feed their families or pay medical bills. If
the ship of the Kenyan State drowns in the gathering tsunami of corruption, the
culprit will be the meat eaters whose greed the country can no longer
afford.  Strictly speaking, corruption is
not as much of a moral problem as it is an economic one.  Former Chief Justice Willy Mutunga is right
that Kenya is a bandit economy in which the bandits may be in control of more
than half of the state’s machinery and agencies.  In fact, corruption in its various
manifestations is the largest industry of the African economy in Kenya.  The refrain among the middle class in today’s
Kenya is “don’t work hard, work smart” and invariably working smart means
becoming a tenderpreneur or a broker to live off the State and other people’s
money. This
point is too critical to deserve emphasis. 
Across the world, nations that have changed the economic fortunes are
those that have figured out how to mobilise their best citizens to produce more
and more goods and services to generate personal and national wealth.  Tragically here, the smart workers are those
who join politics to capture the state and the counties and live off public
funds with their kith and kin.  The
inevitable consequence of the most talented citizens abandoning genuine work to
become sovereign parasites is the crisis of production Kenya is facing.  This crisis manifests itself in three ways: Unrealistic
budgets, expensive foreign loans and unfair taxation of the few producers left
in town. Political
power is the lifeblood of the captains of the bandit economy because this is
what enables them to make laws to oppress wealth makers and to protect
themselves upon stealing public funds. 
In her celebrated 1957 novel Atlas Shrugged Ayn Rand memorably
described this scenario thus: “When you
see that in order to produce, you need to obtain permission from men who
produce nothing – when you see that money is flowing to those who deal, not in
goods, but in favours – when you see that men get richer by graft and by pull
than by work, and your laws don’t protect you against them, but protect them
against you – when you see corruption being rewarded and honesty becoming a
self-sacrifice – You may know that your society is doomed”. Hoping
that we now have a consensus that Kenya is staring at imminent state collapse
courtesy of its sovereign meat eaters, is it too late to change this tragic
course?  There is not much Uhuru can do
in the next two to cure Kenya of the cancer of corruption but he can stop it
from spreading further and spare himself the infamy of becoming the first
President to drive Kenya into bankruptcy. 
There are 10 practical interventions he can lead the country to achieve. First
is to safeguard the credibility of the war against corruption, which may entail
its depoliticisation.  There are three
things that the President can do in this regard.  One, he should avoid appearing too cosy with
governors and other persons generally considered by Kenyans as free
felons.  Two, the President must lead by
example and ensure, for instance, he dispels concerns in the grapevine that the
only reason government has not abandoned the school laptops project is because
the beneficiaries are close to him.  Three,
he must keep his vow that every one implicated in corruption will be prosecuted
irrespective of their station in society. The
second major intervention is to curb Jubilee’s appetite for foreign debts,
which is the primary cause for Arror and Kimwarer dams scam. Procurement of
foreign debts is the most lucrative avenue for the lords of corruption in Kenya
because as Treasury CS Henry Rotich is tacitly saying, the government actually
learns about such projects long after the contracts have been signed and
kickbacks paid.  On account of Jubilee’s
expensive projects, Kenya’s GDP is overstated in my view as it consists of
overvalued public investments and outright junks.  There should be a second rebasing of our GDP to
lower it to cure the illusions about how much debt the corruption rats can
procure for us. The
third intervention is related to the second one.  There are hundreds of Engineering,
Procurement, Construction plus Financing (EPC+F) projects that are in the pipeline
and whose main objective is to rob Treasury. 
As example, the notion that mega dams can be built on every little river
and seasonal stream across Kenya’s largely arid landscape is a compelling
pointer to corruption schemes.  Uhuru
should cancel all dam projects, including Arror and Kimwarer, until independent
audits confirm those small rivers and seasonal streams can support them. Fourth,
the President and Parliament should invest sufficient resources in agriculture,
tourism to support small and medium enterprises, including blue economy,
manufacturing and youth entrepreneurship. 
As an example, the 2019-20 budget proposals allocate a pittance to all
these productive sectors of the economy and most of the discretional
expenditures have been allocated to programmes that are historically proven to
corruption.  As part of this intervention,
the CDF and Ward funds should be scrapped off because they are simply slush
funds and colleges for training of future sovereign thieves. Fifth,
Uhuru should lead Parliament and the Judiciary to fix the law, order and
administration of justice and particularly the criminal justice system, which
is the most lucrative sector of Kenya’s bandit economy.  In fact, as long as he does not acknowledge
the justice system as an African growth industry he will keep getting
frustrated why the courts are not getting him enough convictions to justify the
fight against corruption.  The problem we
have is historical and systemic as dramatised by the fact that the common law
owes its origins to the justice system set up by William I of Normandy upon
conquering England in 1066AD. This
justice system was the most profitable enterprise for the king and his
noblemen.  In short fixing the criminal
justice system will entail abolition of a most profitable enterprise and
corruption will certainly fight back here. Sixth,
the legal framework for fighting corruption should be rationalised and
toughened.  The provision for
ridiculously low fines take the sting from corruption convictions.  It is equally scandalous for any state
official charged with felonies and corruption to remain in office during
trial.  In my view, there is nothing in
the constitutional principle of presumption of innocence that justifies
suspects of serious offences to remain in office.  I believe all that is necessary is to
conclude such trials within three to six months and pay the aggrieved compensation
if the courts exonerate them. Seventh,
all state officials and people suspected to have stolen over Sh100 million should
be tried before the High Court to speed up the trials and reduce risk of
compromise since judges have higher stakes than magistrates to resist bribes. Since
magistrates do not adjudicate civil cases above Sh50 million, it puzzles me why
they should preside over trials involving billions of shillings.  Moreover, since the man who kills the shopping
centre mad man his village is relieved to bury and forget is tried for murder
in the High Court, it is intriguing that Kamlesh Pattni and his successors
stand trial in magistrates courts. There
is need to fix the legal framework for public procurement and payment of
suppliers and service providers both at the national and county government
levels.  If Kenyans are serious about job
creation and manufacturing networks of procurement cartels and “Ifmis brokers”
must be dismantled so that legitimate firms can do honest business with the
public sector. The
main conduits of corruption are parastatals such Kenya Power, KenGen, Kenya
Pipeline, Kenya Ports Authority, Kenya Airports Authority and Kenya
Airways.  They are often underperforming
or making losses because whereas Kenyans are the legal and nominal owners, the
beneficial owners of these public firms are corruption cartels and ruling party
barons.  To reduce corruption, these
state enterprises should be privatised and their governance models
depoliticised. Finally,
Kenyans should pray to God to grant more presidential wisdom to Uhuru.  We should pray for Uhuru to know what works
and what does not.  We should pray to God
to give our president good company and to distinguish the people whose counsel
he should seek and those he should reject. 
We should pray that he will get more people like Prof George Magoha to
his Cabinet.  As the Kikuyu say, we
should pray for the President to know ĩrĩo
na ĩteo (what to keep and what to throw away).  *The writer is a
constitutional lawyer (kibemungai@yahoo.com).