The ‘suicide note’ scribbled in the house of a victim of self-confessed serial killer Philip Onyancha matched the handwriting of the accused, a police officer told the High Court yesterday. Investigating officer Sergeant James Tangi told Justice Jessie Lessit the writing behind Jacqueline Chepng’etich’s bathroom door using a blue marker pen matched the samples taken from Onyancha in 2010. Chepng’etich died in 2008. Her body was found dangling in the bathroom. “We took photos of the writings and various samples from the accused [Onyancha] for forensic examination. The result was positive,” the officer said. The note read, “I had debts, but I cleared some. I sold all my things. Sorry this is the end of me, mob frustration at least I’m now resting in peace. Sorry life was tough for me but anyway, I had a last moment for me, don’t blame anybody. It was my own.” “I enjoyed myself with a friend before I decided on my own to end my life. Forgive me, Daddy, Caro, Jemmo and Mark.” The investigating officer said they also found a marker pen next to Jacqueline’s bed. Onyancha, however, disputed the evidence, saying he was compelled to give the sample for comparison. He said he used a ballpoint pen, not a felt pen. “According to police standing orders on carrying out criminal investigations, you are required to use the same type of pen when taking samples,” Onyancha’s lawyer argued. The investigating officer, however, said the accused when first arrested was cooperative, volunteered statements and gave samples willingly. Tangi said he opened an inquest file to determine whether it was suicide or murder. The officer told the court that on June 2, 2008, the caretaker of the building where Jacqueline lived reported a foul smell. “The main door to the house was closed. On the left, one window looked like it was open but we couldn’t see inside,” he said. “We broke the door, got inside, the bed was properly made and living room was neat. We went into the bathroom and opened the door.” In 2010, Onyancha confessed to killing 19 women and two children. He exaggerated the confessions by lying that he had drunk his victims’ blood.  vengeance Onyancha said he had been sexually molested by a female guardian sparking his hatred for women. He had sworn to kill 100 in vengeance. After 13 witnesses testified, High Court judge James Wakiaga said Onyancha had a case to answer, but ordered a fresh hearing. Wakiaga ruled that Onyancha’s charge and subsequent sentencing was a mistrial. He directed the matter be taken before the DCI for directions. Onyancha had been charged with three murders, together with Tobias Aradi and Douglas Makori. They denied killing Anthony Muiruri, nine, on April 14, 2014, in Dagoretti, Nairobi.