Player power rules at Chelsea There is no doubt in my mind that Wednesday’s 2-0 win for Chelsea over rivals Tottenham allowed the Blue’s manager Maurizio Sarri a stay of execution. Had Chelsea lost I believe Sarri would have been gone by Thursday morning. As it turned out, the Chelsea players rallied around their manager and produced a winning performance which dominated Spurs. However, this win, no matter how vital it was, does not mask the underlying problems at Chelsea. There has been a huge backlash this week at goalkeeper Kepa Arrizabalaga’s refusal to be substituted at the end of the Carabao Cup final against Manchester City. Personally, I have never seen such disgraceful behaviour from a senior player. However, what it proves beyond doubt is that player power is bigger than manager power at Stamford Bridge. Can you imagine, for instance, a player refusing to leave the pitch if called off by Sir Alex Ferguson or Jose Mourinho? No matter how Chelsea and Sarri attempt to dress up the situation as a ‘misunderstanding’ it was clear to everyone else that the goalkeeper had been told to leave the pitch. Sarri wanted Willy Caballero to replace him for the end of game penalty shoot out (Willy has proven his brilliance in penalty shoot outs on previous occasions). What most people do not know is that Arrizabalaga was feeling tension in his hamstring and this had happened twice during midweek training and he almost failed a late fitness test for the game against City. Despite his hamstring problem, the goalkeeper refused to obey his manager’s instructions to leave the field. It was humiliating and embarrassing for manager Sarri and also his coach Franco Zola. Arrizabalaga simply ignored their decision. Sarri got his revenge by dropping Arrizabalaga to the bench for the 2-0 midweek win over Tottenham and he must have prayed that Caballero played well, which he did. However, this is just the latest player power confrontation at Stamford Bridge. You will remember Diego Costa wanted an away move to Atletico Madrid and stayed at home in Argentina, effectively going on strike, because he could not get his own way. Remember goalkeeper Thibaut Courtois behaving badly because he wanted a move to Real Madrid. In recent history, Arjen Robben, John Terry, Michael Ballack and even Eden Hazard have all had issues with a Chelsea manager. One of the problems is Chelsea being controlled by an absent owner. Roman Abamovich did not even attend Sunday’s Cup final and has been absent all season. He will blame the British government for taking away his work visa but in reality he is the owner and should be seen to be so. There are ways around the visa problem. When he personally supported Jose Mourhino and Antonio Conte, he did so verbally and by visiting the training field. This helped Chelsea to win the Premier League title. The main question is, if these players are so strong at sticking up for themselves then why do they not emerge as leaders in the dressing room and on the field? Club captain Gary Cahill has been dropped down the order by Sarri and his popular dressing room leadership and on-field organisation is missing and stand-in captain Cesar Azpilicueta has fallen short of leadership qualities. On the management side the club is less than effective in dealing with players contracts and signings. Michael Emanelo left as Technical Director and he was responsible for bringing in Hazard, De Bruyne and Lukaku - the last two were later sold. But no one has replaced Emanelo’s expertise. With the contracts of Eden Hazard, David Luiz, Pedro and Willian coming to an end this season, someone at Chelsea has to step up and take charge and fight to keep these players or Chelsea’s problems will get worse. The problem for the board is on all levels; a missing owner, players not respecting their manager and players about to become free transfers when their contracts end. It is a testing time for all Chelsea supporters but at least they can feel pleased that they put Spur’s to the sword and that was due to player power! Alisson looks a bargain at £65 million! Liverpool bought goalkeeper Alisson Becker to ease manager Jurgen Klopp’s defensive problems as they fight for football’s richest prize, the Premier League title. The Brazilian star signed from Roma last year for a staggering £65 million has lived up to his reputation as one of the world’s best goalkeepers. I was studying the stats on the wall as I walked through Liverpool’s training room a few days ago and realised that Klopp’s new defence has the most impressive “goals scored against” record of only 15 this season! That is the Red’s best defensive record since the 2009/10 season. Typical of Alisson’s performances this season was the incredible one handed stop as Manchester United’s Jesse Lingard was about to score into an open goal. Pepe Reina was the last shot-stopper to finish the season with only 17 goals scored against and that was under manager Rafa Benitez. 26-year-old Alisson is in line to win the Golden Glove award for the 2018/19 season. Klopp admits to being nervous! Jurgen Klopp has been confiding that both he and his team are nervous as we approach the climax to the Premier League season. Liverpool fans have waited 29 years to win the title again and Klopp recognises that this has put a lot of pressure on him and the players. He recognises that a big part of the job still has to be done. Drawing 0-0 with Manchester United was typical of how pressure can affect a team who dare not loose at the moment. They hit back with a midweek match against Watford and won in style 5-0. It was almost like a nervous reaction. Klopp praised the fans saying: “They have waited for 29 years…I am happy with the crowd and they have helped us to 64 points.” Klopp also recognises that the next derby game against Everton this weekend is a tricky one and won’t be as easy as the Watford win. Rodgers a good fit for Leicester I wish new Leicester manager Brendan Rodgers the very best of luck as he takes over a team loaded with young talent but lacking confidence. Leicester has some of the best youngsters in the Premier League and with Rodgers, an experienced and clever coach, I think we will see those youngsters improve dramatically. Outgoing manager Claude Puel did not ever fit properly at the King Power Stadium and I can count on one hand the number of times the fans sang his name. However, the one positive thing he did was to nurture young talent and bring them into the squad. Rodgers said yesterday that he wants to aim for sixth place this season and therefore qualify for the Europa League. Ben Chillwell 22, James Maddison 22, Hamza Choudhury 21, Harvey Barnes 21, Caglar Soyuncu 22 and Wilfred Ndidi 22 and fellow Nigerian Kelechi Iheanacho also 22, are extremely talented youngsters who need the guiding hand of Rodgers to help them excel in the Premier League. Celtic fans are less than happy that Rodgers has walked out on them with three majors trophies still within their grasp. Radio shows, newspapers and TV in Scotland have been inundated with hatred comments made about Rodgers departure… ‘traitor’, ‘not fit to wear the Celtic badge’, ‘don’t ever come back to Glasgow’, and ‘the worst kind of loyalty.’ Let’s hope it works out for Rodgers at Leicester or Celtic fans will have the last laugh. Pellegrini wants Zabaleta for next season I was pleased to receive a call from one of my contacts at West Ham telling me that Manuel Pellegrini has taken full back Pablo Zabaleta to one side and tried to convince him to stay at the club for next season. Zabaleta is now 34 and it is rumoured he has been approached about taking up a coaching role at his former club Manchester City. Pellegrini thinks his professionalism, experience and influence in the dressing room is important for the club and the players. Pablo has a one year extension clause in his contract and this season he has put in some great performances in his 21 games played. Remember that Zabaleta and Pellegrini won the Premier League title together in 2014 so they have a bonding between them. Alexis out in the cold One of the reasons Alexis Sanchez is having a hard time succeeding at Manchester United is his lack of any meaningful relationship with other players. He mainly speaks to David De Gea, Juan Mata and Romelu Lukaku with other players blaming his failure to learn the English language properly. Sanchez is also often accused by senior players of being selfish in possession of the ball and not passing enough. He also criticises them on the pitch for any mistakes. When Jose Mourinho was manager Sanchez would often argue with his tactics at the training ground and was censured for criticising him. Surprisingly he lives in a very quiet and expensive area near to Manchester called Wilmslow but it is the opposite of the energetic London life he enjoyed so much when at Arsenal. Elton keeps in touch from Los Angeles I was amused to learn that Watford’s No1 celebrity supporter and former club owner Sir Elton John texts the club Chief Executive every week giving his views on team performance and making suggestions. Ex-chairman Sir Elton lives in Los Angeles these days but follows the team avidly and still wants to be involved. Every time he visits Britain he can be found at the Hornets for home matches. Scott Duxbury, the Chief Exec, quickly points out that Sir Elton sends the texts as suggestions, not instructions, like telling him to watch Burnley’s goalkeeper Tom Heaton because he feels that current No1 goal stopper Ben Foster is not consistent enough. Park where you like Paul... I enjoyed a story this week about United’s Paul Pogba receiving a parking ticket on his Rolls Royce car in Manchester. The traffic warden who issued the ticket also wrote a note saying, “Please do not park here in future”. Next to it a United fan had written another note saying, “Paul…you can park anywhere you like in Manchester!”