National women’s volleyball team will return to the World Cup set for September 14-29 in Japan by virtue of being ranked second in Africa. Kenya are ranked 20 while their new found rivals Cameroon are 17 worldwide. In press statement released by FIVB yesterday, the East Africans will compete against hosts Japan, Cameroon, Serbia, China, Korea, Russia, Netherlands, USA, Dominican Republic, Brazil and Argentina. However, the event will not be a qualifier for the forthcoming Tokyo 2020 Olympics as it was case in 2015 when the top two teams used the event to book tickets for the for the 2016 Rio Olympics. The team, which won two matches against their African counterparts Algeria and Peru in the last edition and were ranked 10th in 12-member team, will be seeking to better their performance. In the last edition, national women’s team captain Mercy Moim was ranked among the best 10 best scorers, placing sixth while experienced middle blocker Brackcides Agala emerged number five in the best receiver category. Ruth Jepng’etich was ranked ninth in the blocking department. Kenya Volleyball Federation (KVF) chairman Waithaka Kioni welcomed the news but was quick to note they have a busy calendar. “It’s a good feeling that we have been drafted to participate in the World Cup and our ranking played part to that. We have so many events among them the All Africa Games, Olympic Qualifier, Africa Cup of Nations and the Africa Club Championships,” noted Kioni. He added: “We are glad that by the time the national duties will swing in action, we would have gotten the FIVB Italian attached coach Shailene Ramdoo and I want to believe by then, we will have learned a lot from him. The coach will be in the country in May for three months and FIVB are paying his allowance but we will cater for his well being.” Kioni at the same time acknowledged receiving a accolades from the FIVB president Da Silva Graca Filho for hosting a successful CAVB high performance coaching seminar under FIVB instructor Mauro Berruto. He said: “The event wouldn’t have been successful without KCB, who sponsored it to the tune Sh2million and we remain indebted to them.”