After striking a match winning goal against KCB at the Kenyatta Stadium, Machakos yesterday, Sofapaka forward Umaru Kasumba is confident of ending his long wait for the Golden Boot award. The Ugandan proved the difference between the two sides as his last minute penalty saw him take his goal tally to seven goals this season, one behind veteran Allan Wanga and believes the goal will spice up his quest to lay his hands on the individual accolade in his third season with Sofapaka. Kasumba, who admitted that the bankers were unlucky not to have won the match, scored the spot in the dying minutes of the encounter to see the 2009 league champions rise to fourth with 27 points, five behind leaders Bandari. “I didn’t want to reveal my target for the season but the joy of getting my team the three points has forced me to open up at long last. I believe this is my season to win the Golden Boot despite the competition. I am happy with today’s win although I feel KCB were unlucky not to have won the match.” The bankers dominated the first half and created numerous chances but their execution was wanting. Experienced forward Ezekiel Odera was a constant threat to Sofapaka’s defence with his runs and dribbles but could not beat hawk-eyed opposition goalkeeper, Justin Ndikumana, who denied him thrice in the half. Odera tested the Rwandese goalkeeper barely a minute into the game but his header was well gathered by the towering gloveman, whose aerial prowess also saw him save Chrispinus Onyango’s attempt two minutes later. Sofapaka had their first chance in the sixth minute when Onyango, who had been forced to track back for defensive duties fouled Brian Magonya a few metres off the box but John Avire skied the resultant freekick. KCB continued to camp at Sofapaka’s area in search of the opening goal and would have gone ahead in the 11th minute but Onyango shot wide from close range before Eston Esiye drove a ferocious freekick over the bar a minute later. The two teams exchanged attempts until the half time whistle but it was the bankers who broke for the breather heads down for failing to break the deadlock from the chances created. Having watched Odera and Onyango fluff open chances in the first half, Frank Ouna lost his patience and withdrew them in 50th minute for Shami Kibwana and Clinton Kisiavuki. Minutes later, Sofapaka responded by resting Stephen Waruru for Ibrahim Kajuba while Kennedy Oduor was brought on for a weary Samuel Mutira. The match seemed headed for a goalless draw until the 89th minute when KCB’s Bethuel Warambo handled Kasumba’s header in the box forcing the referee to point to the spot. The Ugandan attacker sent Adisa Omar the wrong way to seal the three points for Sofapaka. Sofapaka coach John Baraza admitted they were outplayed by the bankers but lauded his charges for their display. “Clearly, we were outplayed by KCB but the positive thing is we won the match. I am happy we contained their pressure and bounced back to our winning ways,” said Baraza. KCB assistant coach, Sammy Omollo, rued tough luck for the loss, saying: “We were unlucky not to have put the result beyond reach early in the first half. We created chances and dominated the game but we were unlucky in the final third.”