North Rift governors want the government to ensure that the Sh65 billion Arror and Kimwarer dams in Elgeyo Marakwet are completed despite the ongoing graft investigation. The governors have written to the national government through their North Rift Economic Bloc urging that the ongoing investigation of the dams scandal and related controversies is not to terminate work on the projects. Noreb chairman Jackson Mandago, who is also Uasin Gishu governor, said they have discussed the future of the project and all other dams in the region and countrywide and they want them completed. The projects are due for completion in five years “As governors we know the value of the Arror and Kimwarer dams which will serve more than 200,000 residents and supply power to the national grid. What is going on should not be used to stall the projects,” Mandago said at Kipenyo in Eldoret on Sunday. He said the Directorate of Criminal Investigations should avoid being used by forces planning to have the projects collapse. His Elgeyo Marakwet counterpart Alex Tolgos welcomed the investigation but asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to ensure the dams are completed. Last week Tolgos told the more than 1,000 families in Kerio Valley to take back their land until further notice. ‘COMPENSATE LANDOWNERS’ “The emerging scandals have caused a lot of confusion and those whose land was acquired should go back and use it,” he said in Iten on Friday. He said the landowners should “not wait for what they don’t know”. He wants them compensated fully before the projects take off. The legislator said the county will not allow the families to be frustrated by cartels involved in the dam scandals. Tolgos said many families had lost in the past when they were not compensated after their land was taken for public projects. Arror residents, led by Patrick Kasain, said they support the projects and that the community has been fully involved ahead of relocation. “KVDA had so many meetings with us here and we understand the process. We do not even expect the resettlement to be hurried. It is being done as per the law and with great care,” Kasain said.  