Governors, senators and MPs from pastoralist areas yesterday said they will be united in declaring their position on referendum question, the upcoming national census and boundaries review. Speaking to the press after a two day pastoralist leadership summit, the leaders said they will oppose any attempt to either merge or reduce counties. Leader of Majority in the National Assembly Aden Duale, the patron for Pastoral Parliamentary Group said leaders from pastoral zones will defend devolution and won’t allow any constituency or ward to be altered in boundary review. “Try monkey business in taking any ward, constituency or even counties, we will defend devolution and we will support referendum if it is increasing of funds for the counties from 15 to 70 percent,” the Garissa Township MP said. “We have heard of politicians talking about punguza mizigo, we know the value of devolution because we have suffered under centralised government, we are telling IEBC you cannot touch our counties,” he added. Duale also put on notice Treasury Secretary Henry Rotich for what he said was violating constitutional provisions by continuous withholding of Equalisation funds to transform lives of pastoral counties. West Pokot governor John Lonyang'apuo took issue with Treasury’s move to release ‘little doses’ of funds as restricting development in the counties. “When the law says this monies should be disbursed every month and you wait until like four months, what development do you think will be realised in these counties,” he said. The governor said they will also push for increase of devolved funds up to 70per cent saying Kenyans are spread in the counties. Isiolo Governor Mohamed Kuti said FCDC counties and pastoralist leaders will be speaking in one voice in fronting their issues adding that these counties ought to claim their space since their regions have largely been ignored. “We have to shape the destiny of this nation by providing voice of reason, we are not going to sit back and watch when things are not going the right direction,” he said. Mandera Governor Ali Roba who is the chairman of Frontiers Counties Development Council said the leadership of these counties will invest to deliberately ensure pastoralist are counted in large numbers by mitigating issues of pasture and water.