This year’s Beyond Zero Half Marathon will act as a Paralympics qualifier ahead of the 2020 Olympic Games in Tokyo, Japan, race organisers announced yesterday. The 21-km Wheelchair Half Marathon will grant the country’s top paralaympians an early chance to qualify for the games. Athletics Kenya (AK) President Lt. Gen (rtd) Jackson Tuwei said they included the special category to facilitate inclusion of the people with intellectual disability and the visually impaired in race categories. “It will be good preparation for the Paralympic athletes as they look at qualifying. This presents a good opportunity for them,” he added. Tuwei also released the route map for the event slated for Sunday. Participants will start at Nyayo Stadium through Uhuru Highway, University Way, Muindi Mbingu, Kenyatta Avenue, Haile Selassie, Bunyala Road, Dunga Dunga Road, Lusaka and finish at Nyayo Stadium. Tuwei urged Kenyans of goodwill to turn up in large numbers for the event. “I’m asking all Kenyans to turn up in big numbers and support this cause which is very noble,” added Tuwei. Event organiser, Peter Gacheru, said they are targeting 20,000 participants for the event and they will have workforce of 2000 for the one day event including security, safety and volunteers. Registration closes on Saturday. Gacheru said preparation for the event is almost complete. “We are pleased to report that all plans have been put in place to ensure the 2019 Beyond Zero Half Marathon is safe and great experience for all participants. We have finalised important details like the route, prize money and race categories as well as security during the event,” added Gacheru. The categories for this year’s event include the 21km half marathon, 10km road race which will feature two categories—elite and the amateur. Other categories are wheelchair half marathon, 21km tricycle half marathon and the 5km fun run. Winners in the 21km race will pocket Sh250,000 with the second and third place finishers pocketing Sh125,000 and Sh75,000 respectively. Click here for the latest political news