Former Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero has asked for separate trials in his fraud case, claiming that the DPP was duplicating charges against him. Kidero said in an application yesterday that the charges’ duplication will subject him to double jeopardy. Last year, Kidero denied conspiring to commit a fraud and two counts of dealing with suspect property, leading to loss of public funds. He is charged alongside former county secretary Lilian Ndegwa, former chief finance officer Jimmy Kiamba, former finance executive Gregory Mwakanongo, former accounting head Stephen Osiro, former acting chief finance officer Luke Mugo and former acting head of treasury Maurice Okere. Kidero said the conspiracy charge gave rise to more than one offence and is intended to embarrass and prejudice him. “Conspiracy to commit an offence is an offence created by section 47 of the Anti-Corruption and Economics Crimes (ACEC) Act whilst the offence of fraud leading to loss of public funds is an offence created by section 45 of ACEC Act. “The conspiracy charge contravenes the criminal procedure code as it contains two offences in one count,” Kidero said. He wants the court to declared the conspiracy charge “bad for want of particulars in so far as it does not specificy the actual offence. He said the charge should be clear on whether it is conspiracy to commit an offence of corruption or the offence of fraud leading to loss of public funds. Kidero further wants the court to order that the offences of dealing with suspect property as set out in counts two and three be separated from the others and be tried separately. The charge sheet was registered on August 9, last year. It contains 35 counts involving all the 11 accused. Kidero said out of the 35, only three counts relate to him. “Four common witnesses are lined up to testify against me with only four documents to be relied on. But 25 witnesses are lined up to testify against the rest of the accused persons, while 121 documents are to be relied upon in that regard,” he said in affidavit. Kidero said the testimony of the four witnesses against him can be completed in less than three days but the testimony of the 25 witnesses against the other accused cannot be possibly taken in less than 70 days.