The Council of Governors’ vice chairman Mwangi wa Iria has asked the State to establish a liaison office that will act as a link between the county and national governments. The Murang'a Governor said the Management and Budget Office should be created in the Office of the President to enhance communication with the CoG on the administration of the national government’s budget in the counties. The office, he said, will also help to check the performance of national government agencies within the counties and foster linkages, collaborations and interactions between the two. “It is important for county governments to merge their own blueprints with the Big Four Agenda for posterity and make development a structured collaborative effort,” Wa Iria said. Read: Recurrent expenditure, corruption tops agenda in Devolution Conference The governor spoke on Thursday during the 6th Devolution Conference in Kirinyaga county. Wa Iria also called for the development of a Metropolitan Agricultural Master plan to help create a balance between urbanisation and agriculture. Agriculture, he noted, is the anchor of devolution and its progress will stabilise counties and the national economy. Wa Iria pointed out that there is a need for the development of a Commodity Fund for all crops that will go a long way in reducing food insecurity. “We also need to promote investments in nutritional health under the food security component as a way of boosting the health sector,” he added. Read also: Wa Iria hires 100 nurses to improve healthcare The governor called for diversification and value addition to liberalise the agriculture sector and empower farmers. He noted that the industrial growth of the country is dependent on devolved units’ performance and the way they structure their industrial agendas. Wa Iria said the CoG will have to come up with a radical Small Medium Enterprises policy to help steer small businesses in the counties and make the country an industrial economy. “This policy must address key issues such as taxation, licensing, access to funding, research, subsidies, financial literacy and capacity building,” he said. Wa Iria also recommended the establishment of County Export Processing Zones and regional Special Economic Zones to improve industries. “These zones will help incubate industrial and technological hubs that will enhance industrialisation and increase employment within counties,” he added. Click here for the latest political news