Labour unions at Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology want the term of acting Vice-Chancellor Joseph Bosire extended for three months. At the same time they have called on politicians to keep away from the university’s affairs as doing so interfered with the recruitment of a new VC to replace Prof Fredrick Otieno. Union leaders, who were addressed the media at the university’s graduation square on Wednesday, asked Education CS Amina Mohamed to extend Bosire’s term as the university is now more focused on attaining excellence. The leaders included Universities Academic Staff Union secretary general Sammy Kubasu, chairman Robinson Oduma, Kenya Universities Staff Union chairman Onzere Mulongo and Kenya Union of Domestic, Hotels, Educational Institutions, Hospitals and Allied Workers chairman Edwin Simiyu. They accused politicians of only showing up at the institution when they have personal agenda. The leaders in particular took issue with Lurambi MP Titus Khamala for not supporting them when they had a problem with the former VC “only showing up when it was too late”. They asked the Ministry of Education and the university council to fast-track the recruitment or extend Bosire’s term to ease the anxiety at the institution. “We are more than ready to receive a VC from any part of this country as long as he is qualified, honourable and adheres to chapter 6 of the Kenyan Constitution. Our university is not built on a tribal or racial foundation and we are ready to work with leaders who listen to workers,” Kubasu said. Khamala has on several occasions publicly said he will oppose anyone from outside Kakamega from taking over the (university)leadership unless there was no one from the region qualified for the position. “We have qualified professors from this region and we expect that one of our own should take over the leadership. Our children also have what it takes,” the MP said. Kusu chairman Mulongo said “MMUST is now stable and focused on the transition. No amount of diversionary tactics can distract us from the course that we have clearly set out.” Uasu chairman Oduma criticised those who have taken to social media to discredit Bosire’s leadership. He said the acting VC has, in less than three months, revitalised the university to its former glory. “Under the leadership of VC Joseph Bosire and enabling bodies within the institution including unions, Professors’ Forum and the Senate, the university is now more focused on attaining excellence.” The leaders also want the lower workers’ job groups - from Job Group 1 to 6 - to be scrapped, saying “it is a shame for workers in such a big institution to earn such diminutive salaries”. Bosire took over from Otieno on November 30, last year after the latter’s five-year tenure expired.