Kenya Prisons (men and women) and Kenya Pipeline are among the five clubs that will skip the first leg of the Kenya Volleyball Federation (KVF) national league in Kitale, owing to Africa Club Championships commitments. Others set to give the league opener a wide berth are —General Service Unit and Kenya Commercial Bank. League champions Prisons, Pipeline and KCB will participate in Africa Club Championships women’s event while local nemesis GSU and Prisons will fly the country’s flag in the men’s category. Pipeline coach Esther Jepkosgei explained they had decided to skip the event in order to focus better on the Africa show. “The Kenyan league is played outdoor, and really we don’t want to mix things considering the Africa show will run indoor. We want to get used to indoor facilities. The team is training well and we hope for the best,” said the former national team player. The oilers broke their training sessions yesterday and are away in Naivasha for team building ahead of the Africa show. On other hand, the bankers who are making a return to the annual championship having featured last in 2015, are expected to depart for the host nation on March 8. Team coach Japheth Munala said: “It goes without saying that we will not be part of the league opener. We will leave for Egypt a day before event and that means we won’t be part of it. We are leaving early in a bid to acclimatize well ahead of the event,” said Munala, who doubles up as the national women’s team coach. Local champions GSU coach Gideon Tarus said they are not keen to slow the momentum. The men’s Africa event will run from April 1-10. He said: “It’s true we begun early preparation and that’s the way it is supposed to be. And as much as the championship is a month away, we don’t want to slow the momentum that may come with playing at the outdoor.” Prisons’ head of technical bench David Lung’aho said he doesn’t see the teams attending the event. “We are going to have a meeting among ourselves and plan the way forward. But I don’t see the teams attending,” he noted.