Trendy low-carb diets popular with celebrities raise the risk of a developing an irregular heartbeat linked to strokes, warns a new study. The low-carb - or 'keto' - diet trend is all the rage, with devotees including Kim Kardashian and Gwyneth Paltrow. But new research suggests that cutting back on carbohydrates can spell trouble for your heart. The findings show people getting a low proportion of their daily calories from carbs such as grains, fruits and starchy vegetables are 'significantly more likely' to develop an irregular heartbeat, also known as atrial fibrillation. The study analyzed the health records of more than 13,000 people spanning more than two decades. It is the first and largest to assess the relationship between carbohydrate intake and atrial fibrillation, the most common heart rhythm disorder. The heart of people with the problem doesn't always beat or keep pace the way it should, which can lead to palpitations, dizziness and fatigue. People with atrial fibrillation are five times more likely to have a stroke than people without the condition. It can also lead to heart failure. Restricting carbs has become a popular weight loss method in recent years. While there are many different low-carb diets including the ketogenic, paleo and Atkins diets, most emphasize proteins while limiting intake of sugars, grains, legumes, fruits and starchy vegetables. Study lead author Dr Xiaodong Zhuang, a cardiologist based at Sun Yat-Sen University in China, said: 'The long-term effect of carbohydrate restriction is still controversial, especially with regard to its influence on cardiovascular disease,. 'Considering the potential influence on arrhythmia, our study suggests this popular weight control method should be recommended cautiously.' The findings complement previous studies, several of which have associated both low-carb and high-carb diets with an increased risk of death. However, while previous studies suggested the nature of the non-carb component of the diet influenced the overall pattern observed, the new study did not. Click here for the latest political news.