When Kenya and Africa
were fighting for independence, Jomo Kenyatta, Julius Nyerere, Kwame Nkrumah
and other African leaders asked the free world to give them support and solidarity.
The solidarity and support they got finally weakened colonialism and made it
easier for African and Asian countries to be free. But in taking
solidarity and support from other countries, Kenya and other African countries
incurred a moral debt that they must now repay by supporting and expressing
solidarity with other states such as Venezuela and Cuba, which are suffering
from oppression from bad leaders such as US President Donald Trump. The truth is that
American leaders such as President Barack Obama were better for the poor and
weaker countries like Venezuela than Trump, who regards African states as
shithole. An African proverb
says, firewood drying in the rack would be foolish to laugh at dry firewood
burning in the fire. Equally, African countries that Trump calls shithole
countries and are drying in his rack will be ill-advised to deny Venezuela and
Cuba that are firewood burning in the fire of President Trump. At this point, we
must pause and congratulate the Democratic Party that through Congress denied
President Trump use of military force against Venezuela. It must be clear to
Congress and everybody else that if Trump is a bad leader for America and
Europe, he cannot be waging a just war against Venezuela. He is already waging
a political war against America, his own country. He is also waging an
economic war against China, which he intends to bring down the same way he
wants to bring down Venezuela and Cuba. Tragically President
Trump is also waging a medical war against poor Americans by negating insurance
scheme for the poor, which Obama initiated in his first term. President of
Venezuela Nicolas Maduro may not be a perfect leader but that does not give
Trump moral right or authority to change the country’s leadership by
substituting him with what western countries are calling “interim President” Juan
Guaidó. Every country is
entitled to its own leadership, however, bad it maybe, and it is upon the
citizens to change it, not foreign powers. And while it is tempting to ask for support
from other countries to topple a government you may not like, it is better for
people to change their government rather than rely on foreign military that is
bound to interfere and negate a country’s sovereignty. This is what Trump is
doing in Venezuela. Yes, all people
desire a good and democratic leadership for themselves. They must, however, not
rely on others, who might impose their own rules when changing the incumbent
government. The consequences will not only limit rights and freedoms but also
independence and sovereignty. Even Trump’s
so-called desire to give Venezuelans aid cannot be an excuse to change their
government and substitute it with a puppet that will serve US’s interests
rather than those of their country. President Maduro is
right when he argues that £20 million aid to turn Venezuelan support against him
cannot substitute the country’s right to have their own £60 billion returned
home by the US, Britain and other western countries to buy whatever they need
and want. If you impoverish someone by taking away his money, you cannot claim
mercy when returning a drip of the same money to stop him from dying. Ultimately we must
not just have a free world, we must also have a just world that defends
everyone’s right to life, equality, freedom and sovereignty.   