Counties are still experiencing “teething problems” that slow down development and governance, Council of Governors chairman Wycliffe Oparanya has said. The Kakamega governor said insufficient allocation and delayed disbursement of funds by the Treasury have hurt services and almost disrupted completion of projects. “In this second phase of devolution, it is imperative the national Treasury disburses funds in time to avoid unnecessary interference with counties’ operations,” he said. Some functions, Oparanya said, remain unfunded yet they have been transferred to counties. He cited libraries and museums. Other problems facing counties include overlapping and duplication of functions by state agencies, corporations and regional development authorities. He said a huge share of the national budget is allocated to these institutions, yet they are performing county functions. The CoG chairman urged the state to restructure them. He also wants devolution policies and laws reexamined and revised. The governor said there is still no unified framework for pension management for county employees. “It is unfortunate that despite lengthy stakeholders’ engagements, the issue remains outstanding,” he said. Three bills on county pensions are before Parliament. Oparanya said despite calls from the summit to have them withdrawn to allow for further consultation, debate on the bills is still going on. He said the health sector has been experiencing funding and human resource shortages and solutions must be found. The problems have been holding governors back from providing quality and affordable health services, Oparanya said.  success stories Some successes have been recorded. He cited the Mombasa referral hospital, which was the first public health facility outside Nairobi to have successfully performed openheart surgery. Embu Level 5 Hospital also performed its first brain surgery in 2018. In Agriculture, he said, counties have expanded mechanisation and made strides in crop and animal production. Counties have more irrigation projects, greenhouses, new market linkages for farmers and more responsive extension services, he said. In the water sector, he said, county governments have connected more houses to piped water. They have also rehabilitated and constructed dams, water pans and boreholes. In education, Oparanya said, county governments have increased enrolments in ECDE centres by rehabilitating run-down classrooms, building new structures and recruiting ECDE teachers. The national government was urged to inject more funds into Technical and Vocational Training centres as they are essential to the Big Four agenda.