The Nairobi regeneration programme is facing funding shortfalls, Environment CS Keriako Tobiko has said. While appearing before the parliamentary committee on Environment on Thursday, Tobiko said only Sh110 million was allocated for the task. “This is the amount we have been trying to see how to appropriate and focus it appropriately. We have settled on the Nairobi river because it’s part of the Nairobi regeneration initiative,” Tobiko said. The Nairobi Regeneration program is an inter-governmental initiative between the National Government and the County of Nairobi. It aims at revitalizing the national capital by focusing on seven key priority areas. They include garbage collection, protection of riparian land, training youths on life skills, introducing car-free days to fix traffic gridlock in the CBD and building affordable housing units. Tobiko said there are challenges in regenerating the city on such a meagre budget. “I wish it was Sh800 million as Hon [Ben] Washiali said,” Tobiko said. Read: Project to revitalise Nairobi stalls as team confronts major hurdles The Mumias East MP had said the ministry had little to show for the Sh800 million allocated for the exercise. “I invite the chair and committee members one of this days to go with us from the source to the end of the Nairobi River ecosystem and you will realize the complicity and challenge that we have particularly from the informal settlements.” Tobiko said the biggest challenge is that the informal settlements in slum areas do not have sanitation facilities. He said they, therefore, discharge all their waste into the river. “And we have also public entities that are discharging effluent into the river,” he said. On the demolition of buildings, Tobiko denied claims that the exercise was being done selectively. He said the report on the Seefar Apartments is yet to be completed by an independent expert. Tobiko said the ministry could not utilize the local agencies like Warma because the authority is party to the matter. This, therefore, raises conflict of interest. “Hopefully, we will be able to have this matter concluded before the expiration of the 90 day extension period of the demolition notice,” he said. Last year, Nema issued a demolition notice to Edermann Property, the developers of Seefar apartments on grounds that the building has encroached on Nairobi Dam embankment. The notice was, however, extended pending proper evaluation of the building. More: I followed due process, Seefar Apartments developer says Also read: Will Sonko's Nairobi regeneration team resign for failing Uhuru? Click here for the latest political news