Ezekiel Libamira does not refer to himself as a cancer survivor but a cancer conqueror. He says cancer is not a problem or an illness, it's a gift. He is glad he was diagnosed with throat cancer because his story can encourage someone else. The 57-year-old father of three shares his story with the Star. “I was born and raised in Nairobi. I quit sales and marketing employment in 1994 and went into business. Unfortunately, in 2007 I lost my business after the post election violence. Currently, I am a motivational coach and speaker, a leadership consultant, a development trainer and a global cancer ambassador. Growing up, I never had any health challenges, aside from the common cold once in a while . I began experiencing trouble breathing and talking in September 2008. Friends thought I had sinuses and suggested I visit an ear, nose and throat (ENT) specialist. I did not see a specialist immediately. I saw a doctor after about six months of the persistent symptoms who said that my nostrils were congested and gave me medicine, saying that it would clear up in two weeks. Doctor visit I got worse within the two weeks. I struggled with a shifting pain from one part of my body to another but mostly on my chin which I cradled when talking to people. I  decided to seek another doctor's opinion. The second doctor immediately suspected that I had a tumor on my nasal strip, but advised that I go in for a biopsy test to confirm whether the tumor was cancerous. He encouragingly said that only 20 per cent of such tumours proved cancerous. This encouraged me and I was confident i would be among the 80 per cent that tests negative for cancer. I went for the biopsy which was done under local anaesthesia; meaning that I was half awake through the process. It was a very painful experience. I took the sample to the laboratory myself and was back for the results in a week as was told. I will never forget the date of March 7, 2009. The bad news As a trainer, I immediately knew that something was amiss from the doctor’s body language as he read the report. I can never forget his words, [I have some not so good and some bad news for you]. He said that indeed it was throat cancer, but it could be treated. Like most cancer patients, the first thing I saw was death.. as he explained everything, I just went into prayer and asked God to spare me. I could not talk as I was holding myself from breaking down. I thought about how I would break the news to my children. Their mother had already walked out of the family and it was hard for them. I could only imagine how they would take this. I however prayed quietly even as the doctor spoke. I remembered that God is a tenacious friend; I reminded myself that He had said that we were to owe no one anything but love – I still had so much I owed the world. In the middle of all that, I got a sudden image of my children and I knew that I was not going to allow cancer to take my life. The  doctor suggested surgery to remove the tumor and  gave me his budget. I had heard of how surgery may cause the spread of cancer cells so I decided to seek a second opinion. With the consultation of two other doctors, they decided chemotherapy and radiotherapy was the best method to treat my cancer. They recommended 33 radiotherapy sessions before the chemotherapy sessions. I started the sessions . Within three days of the radiotherapy treatment, I could not taste anything. I also lost my appetite and could barely keep anything in my body as I went through chemotherapy. I would vomit anything I tried to eat or drink. I became dehydrated to a point that my tongue was so dry that swallowing pills was a problem. I lost 50 kilograms during treatment. The radiotherapy further burned my face so people could not even recognise me. Overcame In May 2010, after two months of treatment, I was declared cancer-free. I was introduced to alternative treatment, or natural therapy, by a nutritionist who I consulted as he was being treated which has helped me until today. This cleansing treatment from China required me to take 72 capsules of natural products aside from the painkillers I had from the hospital. I am living proof that cancer doesn’t always win. It  invaded my body but I  never allowed it to invade my mind. I din’t lie awake at night contemplating my death. Cancer did not  define me. I believe i have 40 more years to live.   