Juvenile offenders are detained in dilapidated Mau Mau camps at the mercy of government officials who abuse them daily, an audit report shows. Auditor General Edward Ouko says in his latest report that the schools’ management and teachers execute corporal punishment and hard work mostly at night. The children are forced to repeat either class seven or eight since there is no secondary education for the offenders. The report says the government has failed to renovate and upgrade the facilities to suit their current purpose of rehabilitating child offenders and children in need of care and protection. The 2017 report recomends that the Social Protection ministry sets up a new policy and new institutions. “Interviews and documentary review at the rehabilitation schools visited show that they were originally detention facilities for “Mau Mau” (peasants involved in a revolt against the British colonial rule in Kenya),” Ouko said. The report said the poor infrastructure and lack of security measures have exposed the facilities to burglary and other threats. A total of 750 rehabilitees escaped in 2017 due to the weak fences around the schools. “This poor condition of rehabilitation infrastructure in the institutions was attributed to lack of policy on regular maintenance of structures and inadequate funding for the maintenance,” stated the report. There is a shortage of clean water and inadequate facilities due to poor funding and vandalism, which have heavily compromised sound development and rehabilitation. “The effect of subjecting children to these forms of punishment instill fear in them thereby making it hard for them to open up,” the report said. There was the inadequacy of beds, beddings and mosquito nets exposing the children to malaria, pneumonia and other diseases. The juveniles are denied education suited to their needs and abilities that prepares them for the return to society. “We have insufficient training due to lack of continuity, partial coverage of syllabus, failure to complete trade test and lack of professional counseling,” Ouko said. They do not complete trade tests, do not have enough teachers and lack professional counseling. The Juveniles were mixed instead of being committed to institutions that match their risk level i.e high, medium and low. Ouko said gender mixing of the two categories of children, therefore, undermines the objective of rehabilitation because of the probability of bad influence of character. Those released after the rehabilitation were never reintegrated to the community and supervised as required. This forced rehabilitees to revert to bad behaviour and even graduate to adult criminals because of lack of supervision and guidance. “It is also difficult for the ministry to measure the success or failure of the programmes offered.