Nakumatt creditors have dismissed a decision by the high court to extend its administrators reign for one more year. Association of Suppliers of Kenya chairman Kimani Rugendo said the decision is unfair to suppliers who are cash strapped. “It's not acceptable at all. The administrator is not doing anything to clear the suppliers' money,” Rugendo said, adding that the retailer should be liquidated or be forced to pay its suppliers. Yesterday Justice Mary Kasango of the High Court extended Peter Kahi's reign as Nakumatt Holdings administrator for one year to January 22, 2019. The ruling was a reaction to an insolvency petition by Nakumatt creditors Primrose Management, Sunmatt, Compulynx, and Jade Concepts. The four are among more than 90 creditors who have so far moved to court demanding liquidation of Nakumatt as they seek to recover over Sh4.1 billion. “My consideration of the various affidavits and submissions filed by the parties is that the administrator needs to be given more time to achieve his statutory responsibility. There is need at this time for creditors to have some patience,” Kasango said. Top among other creditors pilling pressure on Nakumatt is Chandaria Industries owned by billionaire Manu Chandaria. The manufacturer is seeking to wind up the retailer’s operations and recover Sh353 million. In April 2017, African Cotton Industries was the first to file a petition against the supermarket in an attempt to recover over Sh70 million. The cash was for invoices raised under a commercial development agreement signed with Nakumatt for the period 2016-2017. Tea maker Gold Crown beverages filed an insolvency petition two months later to recover Sh60 million debt that was unpaid for about 18 months. According to Kahi, If Nakumatt is liquidated or sold, the administrators will first distribute the proceeds to secured or preferential creditors. The Insolvency Act 2015 empowers administrators to take various measures to rescue a company, with liquidation being the last resort. Following the extension, Kahi is expected to conduct the financial position of the retailer within four months from the ruling date. In addition, he is expected to reconvene a meeting with the creditors by September and within one month after the meeting, report to the court any decision reached with the creditors. Kahi was appointed in January last year as the administrator of Nakumatt. Three months later, he convened a creditors meeting to vote on his proposals on how to revive the Supermarket. However, the voting by creditors on whether to adopt, modify or reject Kahis proposal was aborted following questions over the validity of the retailer’s Sh35.8 billion debt. Kasanga further dismissed an application by Westside Mall-Nakuru landlord C.K. Patel for Nakumatt to vacate the premise untill further orders from the court.