Council of Governors vice chairman Mwangi Wa Iria has asked the national government to establish a liaison office connecting county and national governments. The Murang’a governor told the Devolution Conference in Kirinyata that the proposed Office of Management and Budget should be created in the Office of the President. It would improve communication with the CoG on managing the national the government’s budget in the counties. It would also check the performance of national government agencies and foster linkages and collaborations between the two. “Given the national Big Four agenda, it is important for counties to marry their own development blueprints with this,” the governor said. Wa Iria also called for the development of a Metropolitan Agricultural Master Plan to create a balance between urbanisation and agriculture. Agriculture is considered the anchor of devolution and its progress will stabilise counties and the economy. Wa Iria also said a commodity fund for all crops that will go a long way in reducing food insecurity. “We also need to promote investments in nutritional health under the Big Four’s food security component,” he said. The governor called for diversification and value addition to “liberate” the sector and empower farmers. He said the country’s industrial growth depends on counties’ performance andthe way they structure their industrial agenda. Wa Iria said the Council of Governors will draft a radical small- and medium-sized enterprises policy to steer small cunty businesses. “This policy must address key issues such as taxation, licensing, access to funding, research, subsidies, financial literacy and capacity building,” he said. The governor also called for conversion of one tertiary institution into the Devolution University of East Africa to instil the ideals of devolution and good governance. The university will analyse legal frameworks that need realignment and help craft Bills reflecting the current constitutional reality. It will also help reassess how sectors such as Health can be reorgnised for better service and and to avoid labour and capitation issues. 