Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi has accused President Uhuru Kenyatta of using the handshake and the war on graft to extend his tenure in 2022 The MP claimed the March 9, 2018, handshake between the President and ODM leader Raila Odinga is specifically intended to fix 2022 politics. Sudi, who spoke on Sunday at Kipkenyo in Eldoret, said the people of Rift Valley are tired of "a lot of the nonsense being perpetrated through the so-called handshake". "I want to tell Raila we accepted the handshake but now we know what it meant. Uhuru should tell us what he is scheming with Raila. If he doesn't want to go home in 2022 let him tell us," Sudi said. He alleged that Uhuru and Raila are using the handshake to block Deputy President William Ruto from ascending to power after the President's term ends. "We are tired and you will get what you are looking for soon. Ruto has his own people and they are not foolish. Ruto has been patient enough," Sudi said. He said Ruto's allies are ready to battle with the sons of the rich who want to control the country. The MP said if the President wants to extend his tenure he should tell Kenyans so that the Constitution is amended to accommodate him and Raila. Sudi said the President and the ODM boss are using the fight against corruption to harass innocent Kenyans especially those allied to Ruto. Also read: [VIDEO] Lifestyle audit should include Jomo Kenyatta, MP Sudi tells Uhuru "When Ruto supported Raila he was not a thief, when he backed Uhuru he was not a thief, but now that his turn for the top seat has come you say he is a thief," Sudi said. The MP said Uhuru and Raila "should not pretend to be holy". "When the issue of JKIA came up, they decided to use the Elgeyo Marakwet dams to cover up the plan to take over the airport. We know a lot about them," Sudi said. Sudi also claimed that DCI Kinoti is was being used to target innocent people in the war on graft. "You have caused the sacking of so many innocent people and their cries will not go free. If you don't want certain people just tell them to resign instead of faking graft charges," he said. Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago told President Uhuru not to forget where he came from because of the handshake. He said Raila is on a mission to break up Jubilee Party the same way he has done to other parties in the past. "Raila's mission is clear and the results are obvious. My advice to Uhuru and Ruto is that they should not forget where God picked them from and the purpose they are supposed to serve," the Governor said. Mandago criticised the proposed merger between Kenya Airways and Kenya Airports Authority. He said the deal is unacceptable. He Kenya Airways is collapsing because of corruption and the deal is meant to cover up the mess at the national carrier. Click here for the latest political news   