Cotu boss Francis Atwoli has said last Friday’s sacking of Sports minister Rashid Echesa has nothing to do with removing the Luhya community from government. Atwoli said Echesa’s position was Western’s and aked who proposed his name, saying he had cost Luhyas their slot. He said threats of a revolt by Jubilee MPs from the region were inconsequential. “As Luhyas, we want the person who recommended the appointment of Echesa as CS to be investigated so we know what he was being rewarded for because it was not political,” Atwoli told the Star on the phone yesterday. He added, “If there is anybody who assisted Jubilee during the last general elections and deserved a reward, it was former Lurambi MP Manyala Keya. The DCI should thoroughly investigate him [Echesa] because he might have done something serious that requires action.” On Friday, President Kenyatta relieved Echesa of his duties as Sports and National Heritage CS and handed his position to Amina Mohamed. Jubilee MPs in Western led by National Assembly Majority leader Ben Washiali have condemned the sacking and threatened to leave Jubilee. But Atwoli has said Washiali should first resign as Majority leader in protest, to show his seriousness abouto the Luhya agenda. During the burial of Lugari MP Ayub Savula’s daughter on January 5, Atwoli publicly cursed Echesa for disrespecting him. Yesterday he said, “I cursed him and it has not taken even three months and he already in trouble,” On Saturday, Echesa shrugged off his sacking, saying it wasn’t a setback as he was used to being unemployed. “I am not the first to be fired. Even William Ruto was fired by [Raila] Odinga but went ahead to become Deputy President,” he said during the burial of Henry Tanga in Matungu subcounty, Kakamega. Atwoli asked the DP to keep off police investigations in the spiralling corruption cases. He said if an individual is found with his hands in the pot, that person should not use his or her community as a shield. “If one community was given 1,000 jobs that could have been given to others and then they are found culpable and cornered, how does their community come in?” Atwoli posed.