Sports stakeholders have welcomed the appointment of Ambassador Amina Mohammed as Cabinet Secretary following the sacking of Rashid Echesa by President Uhuru Kenyatta in a mini-cabinet reshuffle yesterday. Echesa’s appointment as the CS for Sports Culture and the Arts has come under severe scrutiny and criticism, thanks to his questionable education background, political affiliation and a tenure laden with intrigues. As to whether the new appointee will restore sanity in the docket, which her predecessor failed, only time will tell. Among the things that Echesa failed to implement is the Sports Fund, which is one of the pillars of the Sports Act 2013 and the myriad of failed promises in completion of the various stadia under renovation, including Nyayo Stadium. Stakeholders now want Amina to fast-track the process of revitalising dwindling fortunes in the sporting sector which has been marred by a malpractices including corruption, doping and squabbling. Some termed Echesa’s firing as ‘good riddance.’ Kenya Volleyball Federation (KVF) Chairman Waithaka Kioni hopes the newly appointed CS will replicate the gusto she had at the Foreign Affairs and Education dockets in  transforming the sporting industry once and for all. Kioni said: “She really has to establish cordial working relationships with federations, but more so, sort out long standing issues that include the national teams funding and the access to training facilities. Why should national teams pay for the use of government facilities? “2019 is such a busy year on the sporting calendar as we have many events in store like the All Africa Games. She should actually work in unison with various federations to ensure Kenya fields more teams at the event.” Football Kenya Federation president Nick Mwendwa said they will give Amina the support she needs. “Any CS at the Sports Ministry is bound to fail if he or she does not get the requisite financial muscle from the government. I mean, even if I was given the docket now and there is no money to support various federations, definitely, I will not perform,” said Mwendwa. “I hope she will fast-track the programs we have forwarded to the ministry and I wish her well.” Kenyans took to the social media to ridicule fired CS Echesa who has been linked to several cases of misconduct including alleged human trafficking and money laundering. Social Nerd (@ianwagga) tweeted: “At this point the only thing that can sanitise Uhuru’s legacy is if he fired all the Cabinet Secretaries! Firing one illiterate person who should not even have gotten the job in the first place is inconsequential.” Fred Musau in a Facebook newsfeed said: “Much as I laud the president for appointing (George) Magoha (to Education Ministry), firing #Echesa and removing Amina from the sensitive Education docket, I’m a bit disappointed that she has been given the Sports docket.”