Tension has gripped the Migori county assembly over a plot to impeach Governor Okoth Obado allies. On Friday the notorious Sangwenya (a ragtag group of Governor Okoth Obado supporters) stormed the assembly grounds to disrupt a meeting of ODM parliamentary group. They were armed with metal bars and pangas. The group blocked all exit points to the assembly and threatened to assault the MCAs planning to impeach majority leader Malan Ogega and Governor Okoth Obado’s point-man. It wasn’t clear if Ogega was in the Friday meeting, but he said he was not aware of any plan to impeach him. Police had to intervene and whisk away deputy speaker George Omamba and seven MCAs, who were believed to have hatched the plot. “We don’t think it is right for some individuals to feel they can undermine the party by bringing the so-called sangwenya to interfere with our activities,” Omamba said. He spoke from Migori police station, where he had gone to record a statement. incited sangwenya On August 31, Omamba who has been a close ally of Obado, was accused of being behind leaders who incited the sangwenya to invade the assembly during the speaker’s elections. His accuser, lawyer Kerario Marwa, was set to be elected speaker before the process was disrupted. He went to court to be declared winner, but the process was repeated and he lost. Omamba said there was a similar scene in 2017, when youths used two vehicles belonging to the Migori government to block the assembly gate. “We are asking the police to investigate this matter. How can somebody who is not an employee of the county government use a county government vehicle to block the assembly gate just to intimidate the MCAs?” he asked. Omamba comes from the same ward as Obado – North Kanyamkago ward. He has been his close ally and in 2013, they were both elected on the People Democratic Party ticket after being locked out of the ODM primaries. Read: Rowdy youths disrupt meeting of ODM allied MCAs in Migori Omamba was Obado’s point-man in the assembly until the governor warmed up to DP William Ruto and they broke ranks. He has been most photographed in meetings with ODM leader Raila Odinga, while being accompanied by Senator Ochillo Ayacko and Suna East MP Junet Mohamed. The two are political nemesis of Obado. “We know Omamba has been sent to impeach Mallan to set the stage of impeaching Obado and speaker Boaz Okoth for him to take over. That will only happen over our dead bodies,” a youth said. Obado and his cronies are facing several charges, including the murder of his girlfriend Sharon Otieno and their unborn child, illegal possession of guns and corruption probe over missing Sh2.5 billion. meeting was informal Migori PGC chairman and South Kanyamkago MCA Graham Kagali said the meeting was informal. “We are giving strong warning to those who think they can undermine the party that sponsored them,” he said. Suna East subcounty police commander Patrick Macharia said they are investigating. “Those who will be found culpable will be arrested and brought to book,” he said. No arrests have been made. Click here for the latest political news