There was chaos at Migori County Assembly when a meeting for ODM allied MCAs was disrupted by youths. A group known as "Sangwenya", which is largely used to suppress dissent, stormed the venue and blocked all entry and exit points. They threatened to deal with anyone planning to impeach Majority leader Malan Ogega. Police intervened and whisked away Deputy Speaker George Omamba and seven MCAs to safety. “We don’t think it is right for some individuals to feel that they can undermine the party by bringing youths to interfere with our activities,” Omamba told the Star after the Friday incident. He spoke at Migori police station where he had gone to record a statement. Omamba narrated how a similar incident happened 2017 when he said rowdy youths used two vehicles belonging to the county government to block the assembly's gate. “We are asking the police to investigate this matter. How can somebody who is not an employee of the county use its vehicles to block the assembly gate just to intimidate the MCAs?” Omamba saked. Omamba, who hails from the same North Kanyamkago Ward like Governor Okoth Obado, has been the county boss' close ally since 2013 they were both elected on People Democratic Party ticket after being locked out in shambolic ODM primaries. He has also been Obado’s point man in the assembly until the Governor warmed up to Deputy President William Ruto when they broke ranks. “We know Omamba has been sent to impeach Mallan to set the stage for impeaching Obado and Speaker Boaz Okoth for him to take over. That will only happen over our dead bodies,” a youth said. However, Omamba said ODM ward reps were meeting to discuss the supplementary budget, which was mistaken to be a plot to impeach some leaders. Migori PGC chairman and South Kanyamkago MCA Graham Kagali said the meeting was informal and downplayed the politics surrounding it. “We are giving a strong warning to those who think that they can undermine the party that sponsored them,” he said. Suna East Police Commander Patrick Macharia said the police are investigating the matter. “Those who will be found culpable will be arrested and brought to book," he said. No arrests have been made. Click here for the latest political news 