MPs have raised alarm after it emerged that small private hospitals are the biggest beneficiaries of the NHIF millions elbowing out major public health facilities. According to Health ministry’s records, between July 2018 to February 25, 2019 some 1,266 private and faith based health facilities claimed Sh 2 billion against 5,751 public hospitals that claimed Sh789,002,629. Nairobi West claims Sh 147,362,358 from the insurer while KNH claim Sh60,686,751 Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital has a claim of Sh95,246,931. Appearing before the National Assembly’s Health committee yesterday, Health CAS Rashid Aman was at pains to explain how little known privately owned hospitals take huge sums of money beating busy well established public hospitals traditionally known to be serving majority of Kenyans. Read: How hospitals are fleecing insurers MPs James Murgor (Keiyo North), James Nyikal (Seme), Gladwell Cheruiyot (Baringo MP), Mohamed Dahir (Dadaab) and Benard Koros (Sigowet/Soin) demanded an explanation as to how few private health facilities are claiming more than twice what is claimed by public hospitals whose numbers are five times more. The Health ministry was represented by Aman and Fund acting CEO Nicodemus Odongo during the meeting to respond to questions raised in Parliament over the operation of the giant national insurance scheme. West Mugirango MP Vincent Mogaka had inquired information on the monthly contributions to the Fund and total monthly and annual expenditure. The lawmaker, also wanted Health CS to provide a full list of hospitals both public and private covered by NHIF and amount owed to each. For instance, privately owned Nairobi West Hospital claims same amount claimed by both Kenyatta National Hospital and Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital combined. “Even small facilities are claiming more than Kenyatta National Hospital. It is very hard to convince us. There is a possibility of a conspiracy between some of these private health facilities and officials at NHIF,” Koros said. Nyikal demanded answers on specific number of visits to both private and public health facilities. Click here for the latest political news