Kenyan researchers yesterday warned that a cure for HIV has not been found, despite the announcement yesterday of long-term remission of the virus in one London patient. At least 1.5 million Kenyans are living with HIV and at least one million of them are on ARV treatment. Kenya is leading efforts to find a vaccine for the virus through the Kenya Aids Vaccine Initiative. The London patient was “functionally cured” of HIV after undergoing a bone marrow transplant to treat cancer. HIV vaccine researcher Prof Omu Anzala welcomed the announcement but warned this was not a viable large-scale treatment strategy for HIV. “It’s not a viable strategy first because of the costs involved. There is also a chance the new cells may not have requisite HIV receptors,” he told the Star. Prof Anzala is the director of the Kenya Aids Vaccine Initiative and chairman of the Medical Microbiology department at the University of Nairobi. The London patient, whose name was not revealed, contracted HIV in 2003 and was diagnosed with a blood cancer called Hodgkin’s Lymphoma in 2012. In 2016, he received a bone marrow transplant from a donor who had a genetic mutation that confers HIV resistance. He stopped taking all medications in September 2017. Ravindra Gupta, a biologist who co-led a team of doctors treating the man, described him as “functionally cured” and “in remission” but cautioned, “It’s too early to say he’s cured.” The London case mirrors that of the Berlin patient, Timothy Brown, who has remained free of HIV and off ARV since a bone marrow transplant 12 years ago and. Until now he was the only adult considered ‘cured’ of HIV. Prof Anzala said the two cases are similar because they involved replacement of haematological stem cells, also known as a bone marrow transplant. “This does not mean a cure has been found. HIV is so difficult to cure because it hides in infected cells, resting in a quiet state that evades the body’s immune system and prevents antiviral drugs from flushing it out.” Current antiretroviral therapies (ARTs) cannot kill latently infected cells. At best, ARTs can keep the virus at bay, but it usually rebounds as soon as patients stop taking the drugs. “So research is currently focusing on how to tease the quiet cells and entice them to begin to replicate,” he said. This strategy could open doors for antiretroviral drugs to fight the fatal virus by forcing it out into the open, in the method popularly known as “shock and kill”.