The construction of a more than Sh5.6billion irrigation project in Homa Bay county is set to be completed in June after delays. The Kimira-Oluch Smallholder Farm Improvement Project (Kosfip) is getting finalised by the end of the current financial year. The project is undertaken on 1,474 hectares of land in both Rangwe and Karachuonyo constituencies, courtesy of partnership between the National Government and the African Development Bank. More than 3,000 households are expected to benefit from the project upon its completion. The project suffered delays in the last two years after contractors went on strike over delay by the government to release funds for their pay. Speaking during a tour of the project on January 21, EAC PS Susan Koech said the government had resolved the obstacle. Koech said contractors had embarked on duty to ensure the work is completed within the stipulated time. “The construction works are expected be get finalised by the end of this financial year before the project is handed over to be managed by the Homa Bay government,” Koech said. Present were Karachuonyo MP Adipo Okuome, Ragwe’s Lillian Gogo and Homa Bay Agriculture executive Aguko Juma. Koech said 90 per cent of the work, comprising all major civil works and many minor civil works, had been completed. “We are only remaining with 10 per cent of the minor civil works for the project to complete. We expect the construction of the project infrastructure to end by June 30,” she said. The PS, however, said the project is ready to be used by many farmers in many areas it targeted. She said the project would help government achieve one of its Big Four agenda, which is food security.  ANTI-POVERTY TOOL MP Okuome urged residents to utilise water in the project appropriately to eradicate poverty. He said the project can enable farmers to produce food that can feed greater parts of Kenya, not only Nyanza region. The MP said the area is endowed with fertile soil, but the only challenge has been lack of water for irrigation. “No fertiliser is needed for a farmer to grow crops in this area. The only challenge has been lack of water for irrigation, which is being provided,” Adipo said. He urged farmers in the project implementation area to take a leading role in utilising the water. “In some areas, people quit their land to give space for undertaking irrigation. It would be a serious embarrassment to the people of Nyanza if our farmers fail to use this irrigation water effectively in growing crops,” Adipo said. His Rangwe counterpart Gogo commended the state for completing the project for the benefit of residents. “Let our people fully embark on farming through this project. I’m sure farmers will not lack market for their produce,” Gogo said. The legislator urged Homa Bay leaders to work together and build factories for processing farm produce. “Leaders have the mandate to ensure there is value addition on the agricultural produce. This will also aid products to reach far markets,” she said. Agriculture executive Juma promised to deploy more agricultural extension officers to assist farmers. “The extension officers will train farmers on modern technologies of crop production,” he said. Juma said the county government will set aside some funds, through supplementary budget, to buy coolers to help farmers preserve their perishable produce. “We want to ensure farmers are properly capacity-built on how they can fully utilise the irrigation project so our food production is increased,” Juma said. Click here for the latest political news