 Imagine
a cave in which there are prisoners whose arms and legs are bound, and their
head is tied so that they cannot turn their head from side to side or to the
back. They can only look at the stonewall in front of them. These prisoners
have been here since birth and have never seen outside of this cave. Behind the
prisoners is a fire, and between them is a raised walkway. People outside the
cave walk along this walkway carrying various things on their head including
animals, plants, wood and stone. As these people walk, all that the bound
prisoners can see are the shadows of the objects being cast on the stonewall
ahead. One of the prisoners manages to escape and leaves the cave. He is
shocked at what he discovers outside the cave and he does not believe it can be
real. As he becomes used to his new surroundings, he realises that his former
view of reality was false. As he begins to understand his new world, he
discovers that the sun is the source of life, and he embarks on an intellectual
journey where he discovers true beauty and meaning. He is amazed and enamoured
with his discovery of reality. Feeling sorry for his fellow prisoners, he
returns to the cave and tells them that they are trapped in this massive cave,
and that everything they think is real, is an illusion and is false. They do
not believe him and threaten to kill him if he tries to set them free. This is
famously known as Plato’s allegory of the cave. The
African is living in a cave called religion. And he has been living in this
cave as far back as 60 AD when the Evangelist Mark brought Christianity from
Jerusalem to Alexandria on the Egyptian coast. And his illusions have
progressively become more illusory. All he sees, hears and believes is what his
religious leader pronounces as the tenets of truth. This is his reality.  He is bound by intentionally choreographed
intonated words that cast shadowy illusions of wealth, health and status. In
the Southern African cave this week, the African saw a dead man brought to
life. Dressed in all white attire, and lying in a white silk padded coffin, the
resurrection specimen stared up with his mouth open, tongue wiggling, while the
religious leader and his lackeys surrounded the open coffin, performing
resurrection rituals to raise the not so dead man from the dead. Not too long
ago in the Kenyan cave, news of another resurrected woman filled the air waves
when a religious leader spoke ‘life’ into her dead body through modern
technology. Just
like Plato’s cave, there are those that have managed to escape from this cave
and discovered the illusion they have been subjected to. In their
enlightenment, they have tried to free those still living in the cave, but
sadly, they have been threatened with hostility, brimstone and fire, and
branded with a ‘Thomas the doubter’ label. As
a last resort in freeing prisoners from this cave, the State in its
characteristic fashion wants to impose State paternalism by proposing to
regulate religious institutions. Paternalism is the limiting of a person’s
liberty in an effort to protect them from some self-regarding harm, either
through law or other forms of coercion. A bill is set to be tabled in the
National Assembly that seeks to regulate the formation and registration of
churches with the intention of ending the mushrooming of fake churches and
nepotistic leadership. However, if we are true followers of the holy book, the
nepotistic leadership should not surprise us; after all, among Jesus most
trusted disciples, were two brothers, James and John who were the sons of
Zebedee; and Moses was deputised by his brother Aaron during the Exodus period
of the Israelites from Egypt. I
submit that the fate that befalls gullible religious followers is the same fate
that befalls gullible political voters. And this sheds light to the fundamental
reason why Jesus taught using parables and asked questions he already knew the
answers to such as; Who touched me? Who do people say I am? Why do you call me
good? Jesus was inviting us to apply our minds to interrogate his teachings; to
comprehend his lessons by engaging our awareness; and to keep our spark of
curiosity alive. It is no wonder that he proclaimed that unless we have faith
like little children, we will never enter the kingdom of heaven. In today’s
cave, the emphasis is placed on the faith of children, but we neglect to
concede that children are curious beings. They ask many questions. A survey
conducted by News.au.com found that children asked an average of 288 questions a
day. How many questions have you asked your religious or political leader this
year? Sadly,
through the education and religious system, the African has been conditioned on
what to think rather than on how to think. And unfortunately, because of this
conditioning, regulation of churches will not free the African from the
seduction of shrewd religious leaders. Only his mind will. And he can only do
this through critical thinking. When
we become critical thinkers, we begin to question things rigorously; we begin
to form sound, well-reasoned coherent thoughts and arguments; and most
importantly, we start identifying when politicians and religious leaders are
selling us bullshit. Through critical thinking, we build a fortress of
understanding and discernment. We become largely impervious to the lies and the
nefarious manipulations of politicians, the media and religious leaders. Finally,
my unsolicited advice to all religious followers is; never trust a brain,
especially your own, because the brain is the only organ with which we think we
think. Learn to embrace people who disagree with your worldview because the day
you do so, is the day you begin to grow and the day you free yourself from the
African religious cave.  A lie, like a pill, is easier to swallow when
you don’t think about it – Marty Rubin  