Igembe North MP Maoka Maore has told off Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen for attacking DCI George Kinoti. “Let us not politicise the war on corruption. We are happy President Uhuru Kenyatta has trusted Kinoti to arrest the corrupt. If Murkomen is worried about handcuffs waiting for him, in case he is corrupt, let him leave Kinoti out of his tales,” the MP said. Maore spoke in Laare town, Igembe North, when he met education players in the constituency. He said the senator should leave Kinoti alone, saying the war on graft should not be politicised. On Thursday, Murkomen said the DCI had scandalised and “weaponised” the alleged loss of funds in the Arror and Kimwarer dams projects to wage 2022 political wars. He said Kinoti lacks expertise in matters relating to Arror and Kimwarer dam projects. Murkomen said the DCI should have first sought expert advice before investigating. “I urge the DCI before embarking on any investigations of this nature to engage experts with the knowledge of these types of contracts and how projects are implemented,” he said. The senator said Kenyans and leaders should stop using public office and resources to fight political wars. “Politics should be by politicians and other matters of the state such as fighting corruption and national development should be done objectively,” Murkomen said. Murkomen said the project can neither be delayed nor postponed adding that “It is critical and urgent.” “We demand equal treatment in the investigation of all projects in all sectors and in all counties to be treated in a similar manner,” he said. leave kinoti alone Early Thursday, DP William Ruto denied reports that the Sh21 billion allocated to Arror, Kimwarer dams has vanished. Speaking when the Judiciary released its annual report, Ruto said the figures being reported to have been stolen were misleading. “You have heard the government has lost about Sh21 billion which is a flat lie! The money in question is about Sh7 billion, and for every coin that has been paid, we have a bank guarantee,” the DP said. Maore said it is laughable that Ruto said the money in question is only Sh7 billion. “Nobody has said DP Ruto is involved in graft investigations. Murkomen should not drag other people’s names in his wars,” the MP said. concentrate on graft war MP Maore further said President Uhuru Kenyatta should leave the Big Four agenda and concentrate on fighting corruption as it is getting out of hand. “If he fights corruption, then the four pillars he wants in his legacy will fall in place,” he said. Maore is an anti-graft crusader. In 2004, he tabled Anglo Leasing scandal documents in Parliament. He was the MP for Ntonyiri at the time.