JUST in what capacity are Cabinet secretaries trooping to Capitol Hill Square, the private office of Opposition chief Raila Odinga, (pictured) to consult on some serious government policies and activities? This was the question asked by two South Rift MPs. They were surprised that despite Raila holding no official government position, CSs and other senior government officials keep going to his private office. They want his take on how to address some challenges facing state departments. The MPs cited yesterday’s visit. Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri led a ministry delegation to Raila’s office to discuss the troubled sugar sector.  A governor was so upset that he grabbed a bottle of water and threw it at one of his ministers whom he accused of “sabotaging” him. It is not clear what the governor meant by sabotage but those in the know said he was unhappy with the minister because she did not approve his irregular activities. The governor hired someone whom he placed under the minister but his brief was to extort money from business people in the county. When the minister learned what was going on she protested. Then the governor to invited her to a meeting in Mombasa where he addressed her using unprintable language. The minister walked out of the room, checked out from the hotel and announced her resignation.  STILL on the governor, the man has become the talk of the county because of his amorous behaviour. We are told he sleeps with everything in a skirt. He keeps a permanent room at Laico Regency where he invites ladies and later hands them Sh10,000. Some of the women reportedly are planning to set him up.  AN MP from Nairobi is about to be sued by his baby mama whom he has abandoned. We are told the MP who is well-known has been going out with the 29-year-old woman since she was 21, and they have a baby. But for the last few months, the man has abandoned his responsibilities, including providing for his baby. The lady who used to stay in Karen has now been forced to go back home to Machakos while the man continues to sample the metropolitan menu.  KUPPET members are angry at an MP from Western whom they accuse of inciting parents not to pay a single coin for their children in secondary schools in the region. The legislator told parents at a gathering that they should report to him any teacher who asks for extra fees above what the government allocates for free secondary education. The Kuppet members now want the politician to go back to the books and learn that the government only pays a portion of fees. Parents pay the rest. The lot has promised to teach the lawmaker a lesson in due course. Is the MP ignorant or was he playing to the gallery?