Two people were killed on Thursday along the border of West Pokot and Turkana counties by suspected bandits. West Pokot sub county commissioner Khalif Abdulai confirmed that the two were shot by bandits and died on the spot. In the first incident, 25-year-old Ngadomoy Adolu was shot dead by unknown gunmen at Kambi Karaya on Thursday morning. "The bandits didn't steal anything. They sprayed him with bullets and escaped into the thicket," he said. Abdulai said the man was ambushed by the bandits while herding his livestock. In the second incident, the commissioner said that Esther Akiru was shot dead at around 1 pm at Lomosingo area in Kainuk by suspected bandits who retaliated after Adolu's death earlier in the day. "The bandits were tracking four bandits who had killed one person at Kambi Karaya. The body of the woman was taken to Lodwar Referral Hospital mortuary," he said. The commissioner said there is tension in the area after the killings and Rapid Deployment Unit officers are on the ground to beef up security. The killings come after a renewed wave of attacks experienced along the Turkwel Belt for the past three weeks. Elsewhere, an M-Pesa agent was shot dead and another woman injured by a gang in Sultan Hamud town, Makueni county. The deceased was shot as she was closing her shop on Thursday night. She was later rushed to Sultan Hamud sub county hospital with a bullet wound on her chest. Medics at the facility, who sought anonymity as they are not authorised to speak to the media, the woman died on arrival. Makueni county commissioner Maalim Mohammed said the gang proceeded to shoot another woman in the town. The administrator blamed police officers for laxity over the shootings. He said it was the responsibility of the officers to protect citizens and that those who were on duty will be punished. "Why would a police officer go to bed as early as 7 pm? I have ordered the sub county security intelligence committee to meet on Friday and hand in a report," Mohammed said. Click here for the latest political news