Departing and arriving flights at JKIA were disrupted yesterday and airlines and the airport incurred heavy losses due to the aviation workers wildcat strike. The strikers walked off the job in the early hours yesterday, accusing the airport management of unfair staff hiring and compensation. They also protested against what they called the planned takeover of JKIA by KQ. That has been widely opposed, however, and is not confirmed. Although the extent of losses incurred is yet to be determined, Kenya Airways chief executive Sebastian Milosz said at least 24 foreign-bound flights were caught up in the commotion. International travelers were the most affected. Mikosz apologised to passengers for the delays and asked them to check with their airliness on the rescheduled departure times. He also told them to rebook or reroute flights at no extra cost. A source told the Star that KQ was arranging accommodation for some stranded customers at nearby hotel spending resolution of the strike. This is after a woman suspected to be pregnant started convulsing at Terminal 1A after being kept at the departure terminal for almost 10 hours. KQ chairman Michael Joseph told the Star that the losses caused by the strike could not be calculated at this time. “It is impossible to determine actual losses. We will have to wait until tomorrow to get a clear picture,’’ Joseph said. The number of passengers handled at the JKIA increased by 2.2 per cent to 7.3 million last year, accounting for over 70 per cent of 10.1 million passengers who passed through Kenyan airports. The workers are opposed to a proposed management takeover of the international airport by Kenya Airways. The union is also demanding the removal from office of Kenya Airport Authority chief executive Johnny Andersen and chairman of the board Isaac Awuondo for “aiding JKIA takeover by corrupt elements”. A recent press statement by Kawu secretary general Moss Ndiema cited issues that convince the union that Project Simba is scandalous and will automatically cause losses and cost its members jobs.