Kajiado Governor Joseph Lenku has proposed the creation of three senior positions in the Executive to promote inclusivity on government. In a phone interview with the Star yesterday, Lenku said some communities are so marginalised that they cannot win the presidency through an election. "We need at least three extra positions at the top to enable political formations that accommodate the interests of the non-dominant communities," Lenku said. His position contradicts that of Deputy President William Ruto who has opposed calls for an expanded Executive. Lenku and Narok Governor Samuel Tunai are seen as Ruto's point-men among the Maasai community. Lenku spoke just three days after presenting his memorandum to the Building Bridges Taskforce body on Thursday last week. The memorandum was presented by Deputy Governor Martin Moshisho. "I want to make it clear to the Maa community that I will always champion for an all-inclusive government which allows those viewed as lesser Kenyans to play a role in the country’s leadership," Lenku said. Both President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition leader Raila Odinga have supported calls for an expanded Executive. But Ruto said the calls are meant to create positions for "some people." Lenku said small communities should be protected and their dignity guarded for healing and reconciliation. "We need to appreciate minority communities and the role they play in economic development. They deserve a place in both national and county governments," he said. In a memorandum presented to the taskforce in Kajiado town, Lenku proposed that a county executive must not be made up of members of one community. "No matter where a county is, there should be no chance that a cabinet session can be conducted in a vernacular language for lack of ethnic diversity," Lenku said. Several other leaders who spoke in Kajiado expressed concern that the future leadership of the Maa community in Kajiado is threatened by growing numbers of other communities resident in the region. They told the team which was chaired by Garissa Senator Yusuf Haji that those other communities resident in the region should respect the indigenous Maasai by not contesting certain leadership seats such as the positions of governor, senator, and women rep.