World 800m record holder David Rudisha remains optimistic of making a swift return to the track after a year or so out with an injury. Rudisha revealed he is currently doing conditioning after adding a little weight during the time he was inactive. “I am doing some loading right now as I try to condition my body having added some weight during off-season,” he revealed. “I am not targeting the indoor competitions but I am hoping to be fully fit by the time the outdoors begin. My focus is to have two-three months of quality training before I can consider running competitively.” However, Rudisha observed that he has no regrets whatsoever since reaching where he is right now, it has taken a lot of dedication and commitment. “My family understands me and the struggles at hand. The best thing is that I am a performer and I have achieved a lot in athletics. I am even happy with where I have reached, the best in 800m. I have nothing to prove.” He, however, added that it has been a rough time coping with the injury. “Injuries are always tough moments for any sportsman because it denies one a chance to train and do the usual activities but unfortunately, there is nothing you can do about that.” This calls for a lot of understanding since this is a sport where we are at risk of injuries. The way one takes it means a lot but I am trying my best to get back,” he added. “I think injuries are the biggest upset to any sportsman.” “Being ruled out of training and competition is usually very tough psychologically. It really affects one’s morale.” “My inspiration is that this is not the first time I have been injured. Over the years, I have learnt how to deal with it. I take it easy since I can’t force my body. When the body says no, there is nothing you can do about it,” he added. Rudisha said he is not worried of the country’s position in his speciality in the world since the upcoming athletes have been doing well. “The 800m is a very tough race. I call it a mental race and the boys have been doing really well,” said Rudisha. “Last year, we saw some of them doing sub 1:43 and this is special. I know how it feels for one to run 1:42.” “It is also great to see them doing well in my absence— keeping the fire burning. I will not be here for long. One day, I will decide and say I am done. When that time comes I will like to see 800m being taken to the next level by the fast-rising youngsters who are determined to do their best.” He also hailed Athletics Kenya’s move to spread out their activities to the regions in partnership with county governments. “This really encouraging. Fantastic,” said Rudisha. “This has brought athletics closer to the fans. We are happy to see national events being held away from Nairobi and especially Eldoret, home to many of the country’s elite runners.” “Most of the fans here can’t afford to travel and pay for accommodation in Nairobi and such a move will help them watch and cheer their brothers, sisters, neighbours and friends.”  