Biased officiating against Gor Mahia is the talk of the town after the Kenya champions were denied what looked like a legitimate goal against hosts Algeria’s NA Hussein Dey in the group stages of Caf Confederations Cup on Sunday. The Kenyans were denied what appeared to be a legitimate goal in the 59th minute after Ugandan left back Shafiq Batambuze rose high to nod in Francis Kahata’s corner kick but the Malian official instead gave a non-existent foul to Hussein’s goalkeeper Gayw Merbah. Replays from the televised match captured Merbah colliding with his teammate but the referee who was placed a few inches from the scene disallowed the goal for a foul on the goalkeeper. The incident ignited a fierce debate online from fans affiliated to Gor, questioning the officiating credentials and intentions of the Malian referee and the injustice meted to them while playing North African opponents. Following the loss, Gor dropped to second with six points one behind Hussein Dey who play Petro away in Angola this weekend where a win will leave them with a simple task of getting a draw at home against Zamalek in their final match. Gor Mahia will have to force an away win against Zamalek this weekend to breath life into their bid to sail to the quarterfinals. Gor had their chances of inching closer to the last eight slimmed as they lost 1-0 to NA Hussein Dey of Algeria on Sunday night in their fourth Group D match—a result which saw them drop to second, relinquishing the top spot to the Algerian side. K’Ogalo had been handed an advantage prior to kickoff as Zamalek surprisingly stunned Petro Atletico of Angola 1-0 in Luanda to stop the Angolans from scaling to the crest of the standings but Hussein Dey made good use of home advantage to record their second win in the group stages. Going into the match without his first choice goalkeeper Boniface Oluoch, coach Hassan Oktay summoned Fredrick Odhiambo and the former Mathare United man proved equal to the challenge, pulling a number of superb saves throughout the match. However, Abderrahmane Yousfi got the better of him in the ninth minute to decide the contest. Going by the head to head factor introduced by Caf to determine the top two winners of a group incase teams tie on points, Gor who remain the only club without an away point will have to win in Cairo against all the odds or force a draw and hope for an even result in the corresponding clash in Angola. Zamalek, who rose to third after their last weekend loss will be seeking their second win in the group as well as avenge their 4-2 loss suffered in Nairobi last month. Gor will host Petro Atletico in the final group stage match on March 17 at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani. Click here for the latest political news