Over 1,200 landlords whose houses are near the ongoing expansion of the Nairobi-Nakuru highway are planning to go to court to stop the works until they are compensated. The road is road is being expanded from James Gichuru junction to Rironi. They said they have been counting losses after their houses were marked for demolition with tenants vacating. The section of the road is along the Nairobi-Nakuru highway. Some landlords had obtained bank loans to build flats, but they have had difficulties in repaying them since they are not making any profit's. Speaking on Saturday, the group which has so far formed People Affected by Project forum (PAP) said they will also seek for disbandment of the National Lands Commission. PAP's organising secretary Kamau Njuki said they are in consultation with their lawyers, so that the order can stop the Sh16.5 billion project. The 26km project, is done by China Wu Yi Company and funded by World Bank. Njuki alleged that NLC has failed them in presenting their pleas to the government, and they seek the court to force the government to form a caretaker committee to oversee their compensation. "The NLC has to present reports about the history of lands, but in our case, we feel it has frustrated us. We need a caretaker committee to oversee our compensation" he said. Njuki said they have presented their pleas at the Treasury, Ministry of Lands, NLC, Kenya National Highways Authority, Parliament and Senate. Some of the affected people include businessman Francis Kahura who had obtained a Sh234 million loan from a bank in 2013 and built two flats at Zambezi and one at Regen. However, when Kahura started paying the loan back, he was informed that his houses would be affected by the expansion of the road and tenants started moving out. Njuki was also affected since his Rokim Group in Kinoo, has lost a Sh50 million grant from USAID. He says his company which makes modern energy saving stoves, had gotten a contract to make 18,000 stoves for USAID. "When USAID learnt that we had received a notice that our firm would be demolished, the deal was cancelled. We went into a loss since I had even purchased a machine worth Sh1 million to boost our work," Njuki said.