There has been an overreaction to the Prosperity Gospel by society and Christian movements. Some hold the traditional view that the church is responsible for economic growth, encouraging people to think positive, creating wealth among themselves and for the service of God. They base their arguments on the Western Christian world participating in missions in evangelising the gospel because they had the economic capacity. During both the agrarian and industrial revolutions missions abroad were enhanced by people donating and supporting missions. The schools developed in Africa were a result of the prosperous Northern Hemisphere. Christian theologians began to persuade their followers that churches needed to generate wealth in Africa to sustain Christianity in all its facets. The problem today is how it is being done. Traditional Christian movements, founded by missions and being beneficiaries of European prosperity, began to transit from dependency on missions abroad. Instead, they began to depend on investments in building infrastructure, schools, starting businesses, buying real estate and undertaking other profitable economic activities to sustain their activities. There's a second indigenous group of churches started by Africans. They had nothing to do with foreign founding missions. As a result, these groups encourage growth within the church and generosity among members. And there's another particular group, which is raising concerns. These are ministries and organisations started by individuals. They did not allow themselves to grow in terms of leadership and expand ownership from the founder to the second recipient of the vision. This has raised concerns among Christians, the State and society at large as to whether this is godly or unacceptable. A number of these people are televangelist and preachers on the radio. Unfortunately, those who are overreacting are doing so on the basis of a few individuals who appear to be misappropriating funds or abusing members' trust. Society would want to would more regulations to tame them but in the process, we must be very careful not to kill the morale and strength of the Christian movement in Kenya and Africa. It has become a point of contention in that indigenous churches founded by Africans themselves are being suffocated in favour of churches started by the Northern Europeans.  The Bishop of Worldwide Gospel Church of Kenya spoke to the Star Click here for the latest political news