Nairobi is  one of the biggest winners after the National Land Commission revoked hundreds of land titles and reverted them to counties. The NLC, in Gazette Notice No. 1547 of February 15, 2019 asked the chief Land Registrar to revoke the title held by Dafur Dupoto Settlement Scheme in Embakasi. “According to the report by the Director of Physical Planning it was noted that although the development plan that was used to inform the allocations was available in the records, the same could not be vouched for authenticity as there is no evidence of approval by the commissioner of lands,” NLC said. The NLC said a report by the Director of Land Administration noted that there was no clear record of planning to support allocation and that the letters of allotment of 1997 and 1999 did not indicate the authority of allocation. “A number of allotments or LR numbers do not have deed plans or have had their deed plans cancelled,” NLC said.A number of allocations were also outside the area being claimed by Dupoto Settlement Scheme. The NLC revoked 29 land ownership documents before tasking the chief Land Registrar to vest the property in Nairobi county government. At JKIA, the NLC recommended that the family of squatter John Makuthi (now deceased) whose temporary structures are close to the flight path be compensated. Makuthi’s case was referred to the historical land injustice committee for claims. Kenyatta National Hospital lost claim to LR No. 209/13319 after NLC recommended that a title held by businessman Sammy Langat be regularised. The lands commission called for the revocation of hundreds of titles within JKIA, asking those affected to request for sublease from Kenya Airport Authority. Others however moved to court. In Mombasa, the commission recommended the revocation of the title held by Halid Ahmed and vest the land in the county government of Mombasa as a recreational park. The revoked title is in the dumpsite. NLC also recommended the revocation of the title held by Ancient Inland Seas Limited and vest the land in the county government of Mombasa as a recreational park. Other revoked titles include those claimed by Multiple Hauliers EA, M. Tech Building Works and Ancient Inland Seas. NLC vested the land in the county government of Mombasa.Multiple ICD had its title revoked and the reclaimed part vested in the County Government of  Mombasa and the rest in Veterinary Department, Ministry of Livestock. The Kenya Ports Authority was also one of the winners after NLC revoked ownership documents claimed by grabbers. A title held by Gapco Kenya was revoked by the commission before land was vested in KPA. The NLC also recommended that the registrar should regularise the LR No. Mombasa/Block 1/437 to KPA. It also tasked the chief Land Registrar to regularise the LR No. Mombasa/Block  1/438 to KPA. Further, a title held by Soko Properties was recommended for revocation before land is vested in KPA. The Commission recommends to the Chief Land Registrar to Uphold the title to Mat Int. Land will be re-resurveyed to remove any reclaimed land and ensure protection of mangrove. Land whose LR No. is MN/VI/4106 and which covers nearly 70 per cent of Mat Int Terminal Makupa Creek was also vested in the Mombasa county. NLC said if reclaimed, it will completely destroy the creek. The commission further recommended to the chief Land Registrar to revoke the title held by Rose Wanjiru Nathaniel before vesting the parcel in Kenya Railways. It further recommended to the registrar to revoke the title held by Ancient Inland Seas and vest it in Kenya Railways. A blind officer, Joel Abwao, became a beneficiary after NLC recommended to the registrar to regularise his title. “The land was allocated with the consent of the Ministry of Livestock,” NLC said. Talib Bulk Oil Terminal limited also lost its title after NLC called for revocation saying the parcel remains part of the ocean.