We live in an era of intense distractions. So, many people struggle with focus and this is stressful – furthermore, they struggle with the idea of vision because of fragmented attention.  In the absence of vision, stress heightens. People get tensed and confused. We were designed to flourish in the context of vision. So, when chaos is presented, people are uncomfortable. Hence the Hebrew proverb: “Where there is no vision, the people perish.” People get stressed and experience decreased productivity without vision. It’s true: where there is no vision, people suffer.  In 1994, genocide took place in Rwanda. It was sad and very painful. Many people died and the nation was destroyed. But in the midst of the chaos, something good happened: a visionary emerged. President Paul Kagame rose to the occasion with a simple strategy: he had a strong, clear vision. And he declared it. In the midst of devastation and pain, he gave the nation a vision – and that vision became a clarion call for every Rwandan around the world to rebuild Rwanda. It worked.  Where there is no vision, the people perish. The reverse is true: where there is vision, the people flourish. And this is the story of Rwanda. The country is now one of the most respected countries in Africa and has attracted investments from around the world. Now, it is known for hosting top global conferences and the nation is one of Africa’s fastest growing economies. Why? Vision. One man showed up with a vision and now the people are flourishing. Rwanda has been rebuilt and her dignity fully restored by vision.  If people suffer for lack of vision, so does businesses. Many businesses are struggling because the owners lacked vision from the start or lost it along the way. Vision is lost when the focus of a business becomes purely financial with little or no concern for the services that they offer their stakeholders. True vision is designed to serve the needs of others. When you catch the right vision, you are poised to make others flourish. Also, you get to enjoy the benefits of vision yourself.  A true vision serves others. Generally, people have dreams of buying things; those are goals. A true vision serves and builds up people. The visionary is never the focus. For instance, in business, visionary leaders typically seek to serve their employees and improve the lives of the customers in unique ways. If your vision serves only you and family, it’s due for review.  Email: smpamugo@gmail.com 