Some Central lawmakers have rushed to the defence of Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro who was scolded by President Uhuru Kenyatta for focussing on politics instead of development. Nyoro, one of the yungest MPs, is an ally of Deputy President William Ruto. On Thursday last week Nyoro asked President Kenyatta for Sh5 million to complete a stalled school and medical facility. Uhuru told him to use his CDF money. On Monday, some Jubilee-affiliated MPs praised Nyoro as one of the most hardworking new legislators who has achieved a lot in his first year. Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria said immediately after the 2017 General Election, Nyoro sought his help and today has among the most electricity connections in the country. Nominated Senator Isaac Mwaura said Nyoro is one of the most active legislators in Parliament and his NGCDF is one of the best managed. Nyoro said it is unfortunate that leaders from poor backgrounds are disregarded, even when elected to Parliament. “I am the son of a carpenter who lived in a slum in Thika. I belong to the tribe of the poor,” the MP said. On Thursday last week, President Kenyatta demanded the MP should tell residents what he has done with the CDF. He made the comments during the burial of tycoon Kamau Thayu in Gitui village, Kiharu. Nyoro had asked the President to help complete a secondary school and dispensary that Thayu had started but stalled. He said they needed Sh5 million. The request annoyed the President who said he had no time to respond to such requests since he had told leaders to put politics aside and work for Kenyans. “Don’t think the way you keep talking will make these people listen to you. After three years they will replace you all with others who will work for them,” Uhuru said. “We don’t want every leader to keep telling tales, yet he has CDF money. Let him complete the school. Every MP has Sh100 million a year.” Uhuru said in Kikuyu MPs should tell the people exactly what they are doing with CDF money. Many mourners were shocked by Uhuru’s harsh rebuke to a simple request, calling it unwarranted.