Meru leaders have demanded from the Jubilee administration development projects equivalent to the number of votes the party got from the county. It was unfair, they said, for the government to ignore the region and initiate projects in other counties. Senator Mithika Linturi and MCAs Romano Mwito (Kangeta) and Kiegoi/Antubochiu’s Kimathi Ithibua said Meru has been neglected. They were speaking in South Imenti on Sunday. Linturi urged MPs and MCAs to refrain from attacking each other and instead unite to fight for development. Meru has 11 lawmakers and 68 elected and nominated MCAs. “For us to succeed in demanding national government resources, then unity is very important,” Linturi said. “We must unite with a purpose because we can’t win development projects when MPs and MCAs can’t sit and deliberate on the mechanisms to tap them.” The senator said political wrangles have derailed national government funded projects. “Let’s fight for equitable share of the national government funds. When we are divided, our people suffer because leaders from other regions are united in their pursuit for development,” he said. Ithibua said the county overwhelmingly voted for Jubilee in 2017 and should be rewarded with projects. “We want allocation of money to Meru to be in tandem with the votes we gave them. We voted overwhelmingly but service delivery and funds channelled ‘ni kama mandazi ( is like buns),” Ithibua said. The lawmakers’ demands follow a similar complaint by Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria on the New Year eve. Kuria accused President Uhuru Kenyatta of ignoring Mt Kenya region in the distribution of government projects. He said Uhuru was focusing on developing areas that voted for the opposition. “As we enter 2019, you (voters) must think … our responsibility is not just to vote and after voting, we (the government that we form) take development to other regions. That kind of nonsense must stop,” Kuria said at Thika Stadium. “We want the President to also commission water projects, roads and electricity when he comes here. We were with him in Kisumu where he commissioned a road project, but when he visits (Kiambu) he only issues certificates to recovering alcoholics.” Kuria said the region, which covers Meru, Kiambu, Kirinyaga, Murang’a, Nyeri, Embu, Nyandarua, Laikipia andTharaka Nithi counties, was underdeveloped. The claims put the MP at the centre of criticism with leaders accusing the vocal lawmaker of undermining efforts to unite the country. Among those who condemned Kuria’s remarks were Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu, Woman Representative Gathoni Wamuchomba and Nyanza MPs Paul Abuor, Samuel Atandi, Martin Owino, James Nyikal and Millie Odhiambo and Mathare’s Anthony Oluoch. Kikuyu elders said Kuria’s remarks were unfortunate. Uhuru dismissed those complaining about lack of development, saying the claims were being made by ‘washenzi’. Kuria later apologised to the President for the remarks