A postmortem examination showed that ‘Crocodile Man’ David Owino succumbed to trauma caused by beating with a blunt object. “The death was as a result of multiple soft tissue injuries due to blunt force trauma due to consistent flogging,” the autopsy report of Baringo County Referral Hospital, done on December 18, said. There were also traces of alcohol in the stomach. The pathologist recommended that the investigating officers take note of the findings to catch the killer/killers. But the police allegedly warned the family and residents not to leak the findings of the postmortem to either the media or politicians to avoid ‘unnecessary’ tension. Saimo-Soi county commissioner Mohamed Sheh said the suspects would be arrested once investigations are concluded. “For now, it is still early to conclude that the man really died in the hands of the AP officers because even illicit alcohol kills. The postmortem should, however, ascertain the exact cause of his death,” Sheh said. During Owino's burial in Matera village, Siaya county, on December 29, mourners cursed Owino’s killers. “Don’t sleep. May your spirit not rest until all your killers are apprehended and brought to justice,” the mourners said. Elderly women tied headscarves around their waists, shouting the names of suspected killers. “In a normal burial in Luoland, a grave is dug during the day, but this one was done deliberately at night to send curses to the perpetrators and set them in the hands of ancestors,” Louise Juma said. Nakuru Human Rights Network CEO David Kuria condemned the killing. “We are calling upon Ipoa and the Directorate of Criminal Investigations to carry out proper investigations  so that those involved face the law,” Kuria said. Owino’s colleagues described him as a humble, friendly and hardworking man, who never picked quarrels or fought with anybody. “We suspect there is something sinister the government is trying to cover up,” colleague Louise Juma said. Nyumba Kumi official Augustine Onyango denied planning Owino’s death. He narrowly escaped lynching as a mob accused him of colluding with Akoroyan assistant chief Moses Chebii to arrest Owino and hand him to APs. “He (Owino) is my relative, how could I have planned his death? He was an alcoholic and I had warned him to stop drinking,” Onyango told the Star. Lake Baringo warden Jackson Komen called on the media to go slow on the coverage of the Crocodile Man’s death, as it aroused people’s emotions. “I am surprised you people in media still focus on him even in death. Tell your colleagues in the media to desist. If my bosses in Nairobi hear this, I don’t know what will happen,” he said.