Cases of infectious diseases with enormous public health implications have been reported in West African countries. During clinical Ebola investigations in West Africa countries, the biomedical community raised concerns regarding the prospects of bioterrorism. Experts have continually warned that a new era of ‘the most devastating form of terror that is difficult to predict, and of which the underlying consequences can be extremely upsetting’ is emerging. Concerns have specifically been raised regarding how microbe stocks and technology appear to have passed into the hands of extremists with the motivation and the skills to selectively deploy these biological stockpiles in acts of terrorism. The situation of biological warfare has been encouraged by the advances in aeronautical technologies, which have made it easier for these weapons to be launched even through bomblets delivered by aircraft or spray tanks affixed to aircrafts or tall buildings. Public health is an important tool for containing infectious diseases and the threat of biological warfare. No act of biological aggressions has been documented in Kenya. But being a strong strategic partner in the war on terror, Kenya has everything to worry about regarding the possibility of such attacks. In other words, it is sensible for the country to focus on medical countermeasures that will improve public health in general, regardless of whether a biological attack occurs. In progressive societies, public health is equipped with — and has access to modernised electronic devices with the ability to capture data on symptoms during an illness outbreak and simultaneously transmit it for analysis and feedback. Kenya enjoys recognition as one of the citadels of scientific innovations in Sub-Saharan Africa. The country can use this innovative zeal to invest in public health initiatives that will respond to the threat of bioterrorism. Kenya’s public universities are, perhaps, some of the best in Africa, with a rich history of having distinguished faculty members and comparatively exceptional research facilities. Many faculties offer courses such as molecular biology, genetic engineering, immunology of infectious diseases and biomedical sciences. These are the emerging toolboxes of public health and academic research, and continue to expand the traditional reductionist approach to science. Kenya can tap into the vibrancy of her research institutions to be responsive to bioterrorism and to appropriately respond to re-emerging infectious diseases by encouraging relevant faculties to actively participate in public health research. They can work in areas such as developing laboratory processes and procedures to contain biothreats and engage in interdisciplinary research to develop new models of response to the realities of bioterrorism. They can also help in designing a Multi-Lab Response, a network of public health and university labs providing infrastructure for response to a suspect outbreak. It would also be wise to develop and implement laws on biosecurity and rope in experts from public health and biomedical academia. Bioterrorism is likely to remain rare or to happen in places beyond the gaze of the international press. But there is need to educate the public to be responsive to this form of terror before it becomes a challenge to our public health system and society.