Takaungu residents are divided over the construction of a multimillion-shilling gas terminal in the area, with some saying it should be stopped due to environmental and health fears. Private investors are planning to put up a liquefied petroleum gas storage terminal and single mooring point at Takaungu. A public hearing failed on Thursday after area chief and Kilifi county commissioner did not show up. The residents have accused the two of failure to provide leadership and fear that the contractor might take advantage of the divisions and put up the project. Village elder Kasumba Mbango said it had been agreed that the project be halted due to its adverse impacts on the environment. The agreement was reached last year at a meeting convened by the National Environment Management Authority. “We are already suffering from tuberculosis and eye problems because of dust from Bamburi Cement. We cannot allow more problems to ourselves,” Mbango said. An Environmental Impact Assessment Report submitted to Nema shows that the installation of anchors in the ocean will directly impact a relatively small area of the seabed and the accompanying biological communities. But the residents insist gas leakages will lead to massive marine and air pollution. Death of fish, Mbango said, will kill the economy of the area. “Men depend on fishing while women depend on selling the fish. What will we do if the fish die?” asked Safaya Karema. The Thursday public forum was meant to help residents to identify concerns and suggest ways for enhanced benefits and alternatives. The contractor, Taifa Gas Kenya, said both parties had delayed the public participation forums. “We note that prior to carrying out such an undertaking as intimated, the stakeholders in the area have to be given an opportunity to raise their concerns so that the same may be addressed or resolved,” company director Victor Onyango said. Those supporting the construction of the plant said they wants jobs. They said the construction of Bamburi Cement had similarly been opposed but was eventually accepted. “We have already suffered the effects for these companies, let them build. After all we want jobs,” Suleiman Salim said. On October 15, last year, more than 200 families presented a memorandum on the matter to Governor Amason Kingi. The National Land Commission wrote to Nema on November 15, advising against issuing an operating licence to Taifa Gas Kenya.