Railway Club’s Samuel Njoroge maintained his dogged campaign in the Kenya Amateur Golf Championships series with his top performance to claim the Sigona Bowl at the 72 Sigona Golf Club course. The reigning KAGC champion, who will be leading Pro-Am golfers at the Magical Kenya Open Golf tournament next weekend in Karen, fired two over par 218 to claim the Bowl, in a series that was shelved in January. Sigona Bowl, which is the KAGC opener, was pushed to March due to unavoidable circumstances. Njoroge, who won the season closing Nyali Open, said the KAGC is a great platform to build up for Magical Kenya Open, presented by ABSA. “The win is a motivation for me as I prepare for Kenya Open. It has been my dream to play well at the Kenya Open and this is my time,” said Njoroge. In a 54-hole golf tournament, Njoroge, who returned home after a successful trip at Doha Open, fired one under par in the first round on Saturday morning before playing level in the second round and completed his win with three over par 75 in the third and last round on Sunday evening to be crowned the winner. The lanky player started well in the first round, sinking a total of eight pars in the first nine but dropped a shot in hole 3 par 3 but recovered well in the second, sinking three birdies—in holes 10 par 5, 17 par 4 and 18 par 4 . He, however, dropped a single shot in 16 par 4 to end the first round with one under 71. In the afternoon session, Njoroge started on a low note dropping a shot in the opening hole par 4, followed with back to back pars and birdied in four par 5, parred on five, bogeyed in 6, pars in 7 and 8 but birdied in 9th in the inward nine. He parred on 10th, 11th and 12th; birdied in 13th, bogeyed in 14th before recovering with a birdie in 15th. He then parred in 16th and 17th before ending with a bogey in 18th for a level par 72. In the last round on Sunday, Njoroge fired three over par 75 following his dismal start. He birdied on 9th and 17th par five and four respectively with 12 pars, dropped a shot in two and dropped two shots in twos. In the second position was Limuru’s Francis Kimani who fired four over par 220 before Daniel Nduva, also in the Pro-Am team completing the podium with five over par 221.