Fresh from bagging five points at Las Vegas sevens, Shujaa have been placed in tough pool at the Vancouver leg, where they face Samoa, Fiji and Canada this weekend. Paul Murunga’s charges face an uphill task as they take on Samoa who lost to USA in the Vegas final with Olympic champions Fiji finishing sixth after losing in the playoff final to England. Canada will be buoyed by their home fans after a disappointing outing in Vegas, where they finished 13th. At the halfway stage of the series, Kenya lie 13th with 17 points and are in real relegation scrap with Wales and Japan who lie 14th and 15 with 13 and 12 points respectively. Kenya finished 11th overall in Vegas after winning two out of the five matches played at the Sam Boyd Stadium. They lost 26-10 to USA, 31-7 to France before registering a stunning 24-19 victory over Argentina in their final pool match. Kenya trailed 12-0 at the interval against the South Americans before making a comeback in the second half with tries from Cyprian Kuto and Daniel Taabu with a brace each and Taabu adding two conversions. Try scorers for the South Americans were Santiago Mare, Luciano Gonzalez, Francis Oloua with Gonzalez adding two conversions. Kenya were thus relegated to the Challenge Trophy, where they once again came from behind to beat Japan 28-15. Rookie sensation Vincent Onyala scored twice through Cyprian Kuto and Bush Mwale with a try each and Daniel Taabu adding four conversions. Siosifa Lisala, Naoki Motomura and Kameli Raravou Soejima scored a try each for the Asian outfit. Shujaa’s run ended in the Challenge Cup semis, where they lost 24-7 to Spain. Kenya trailed 12-7 at the interval. Javier Carrion scored a brace while Ignacio Rodriguez-Guerra and Pablo Fontes scored a try each for the Spaniards with Francisco Hernandez adding two conversions. Bush Mwale scored a consolation try for Shujaa with Daniel Taabu adding the conversion. GROUPS—Pool A: USA, South Africa, Chile, Wales; Pool B: Samoa, Fiji, Kenya, Canada; Pool C: New Zealand, Australia, Spain, France; Pool D: Argentina, England, Scotland, Japan.