Firemen want access roads in slums upgraded for easier access in case of fire outbreak. This follows Saturday’s death of a seven-year-old boy when a fire razed several houses at Mukuru Commercial slums in South B estate. Thirteen other people were injured. It took the Nairobi fire brigade several hours to put out the blaze and by then more than 200 families had been left homeless. Most of the structures had been destroyed. The boy is said to have been alone in the family house. County director of the fire department Brian Kisali told the Star yesterday that access roads were too narrow for fire engines. “Our firefighters had to climb on top of a boundary wall to put out the fire. This took several hours. We arrived at the scene within 10 minutes of receiving the call at our headquarters on Tom Mboya Street,” Kisali said.  City Risk Hub Starehe MP Charles Njagua asked the national and county governments to ensure that living conditions at Mukuru are improved. “It was very painful to see the fire spread because the fire engines could not access the place because of poor access roads,” Njagua told the Star. He also called for the upgrading of slum structures to stone houses. “We cannot be having the same problem over and over again,” Njagua said. He further asked that the government and Kenya Power consult often because illegal power connections was one of the main causes of fires in slums. The fire victims appealed for help in reconstructing the structures. Last year in October, the county government said it had a master plan for upgrading informal settlements.The Mukuru slum is a special planning area in the plan. Housing executive Charles Kerich said the upgrading of informal settlements would comprise various developments. “This means roads within the slums don’t have to be the standard nine metres wide but wide enough to let in cars, firefighters and ambulances,” Kerich said. But nothing has been heard since then regarding the upgrading of the informal settlements. In January this year, the county’s Disaster Management department was given Sh152 million funding by UK’s Global Challenges Research, aesearch and innovation programme. The funds will go towards the Nairobi Risk Hub, a five-year project by the Disaster Management department scheduled to start this month. The project supports for the development of risk management policy. Lack of proper access roads remains to be a major issue in most fire disasters in Nairobi.