Northern Kenya leaders want residents affected by the Lapsset project to be compensated promptly. Yesterday, they threatened to stop the project if compensation is not done right away. The Lamu Port Southern Sudan-Ethiopia Transport Corridor traverses most counties in northern Kenya. It comprises the Lamu port, a rail way, oil pipelines, airports, resort cities, highways, and the High Grand Falls Dam, among other projects. Lagdera MP Mohamed Hire said in Garissa town that the project is shrouded in “a lot of secrecy”. It could turn out to be another cash cow, he warned. Hire accused the project team of ignoring public participation, a claim the Lapsset officials dismissed as untrue. “You can’t just go to a village and meet people who have no idea what the project is all about,” Hire said. The lawmaker said they have unsuccessfully tried to get information from the project manager about compensation and other grievances raised by residents. “We don’t know how the project will compensate those who will be affected. It should be noted that land is an emotive issue across the country. It’s even worse when it involves compensation,” he said. “It’s my sincere appeal to project handlers to involve leaders and members of the public if they want it to succeed. At the moment we are totally opposed to the manner in which public participation is being done.” Lapsset corporate affairs officer Benson Thuita, however, said they have been engaging county leaders and residents. They began gathering public views on February 4 and the process is ongoing. There should be no cause for alarm as everything will be taken care of, he said. According to Thuita, the parcels were gazetted last week and compensation will be processed once they are done with collecting views and residents informed accordingly. The projects will be in Garissa, Lamu, Meru, Turkana, Isiolo and Samburu counties. Resort cities will be built in Isiolo and Turkana. Inter-regional standard gauge rail lines will run from Lamu to Isiolo, Isiolo to Juba (South Sudan), Isiolo to Addis Ababa (Ethiopia), and Nairobi to Isiolo. Inter-regional highways will be from Lamu to Isiolo, Isiolo to Juba (South Sudan), Isiolo to Addis Ababa, and Lamu to Garsen. The highways and the railway will pass through Garissa. Isiolo Woman Representative Rehema Jaldesa said on Friday that communal parcels will also be used. She wants them covered in the payout scheme. On Friday during the Pastoralist Leadership Summit in Garissa, Isiolo Governor Mohamed Kuti urged leaders to meet and deliberate on the issues raised by residents about the project. “This Lapsset project will bring a lot of problems if not looked at very keenly,” he said.