Nairobi County Assembly wants  interviews of 1,159 people shortlisted for vacant medical positions stopped, citing lack of quorum by the Public Service Board. The board has been conducting interviews since Monday. The Assembly’s sectoral committee on Health chairman, Peter Warutere, on Tuesday said some contracts of the board members had expired and those of the chairman and secretary will expire on March 14. “How can the board conduct the interviews yet they are not properly constituted?” Waithaka MCA Peter Kiragu asked. Majority leader Abdi Guyo said since the board lacked quorum, the process should be stopped and the Labour committee should investigate. “This is a weighty matter and the contracts should be checked so we know who is there legally,” Guyo said. The health committee chairman asked for a statement from the Labour and Social Welfare committee explaining the criteria used for recruitment. He sought to know  if due process is being followed. Acting county Assembly Speaker Chege Mwaura, however, informed the House that the process could not be stopped based on the House debate. “We cannot commit the House on the basis of the plenary debate. It needs to be based on a substantive report based on the recommendations,” Chege said. He further said a report on the status of the service board and its legality was required to enable the House to make its pronouncement. Board chairman Phillip Kung’u said they initially had seven members with him as the chairman, secretary/CEO Meshack Guto, former Devolution CEC Vesca Kagongo, Josephine Gichuhi, Maurice Wambua, Chomba Munyi and another member. Kung’u said the term of the original members (chairman and CEO) is expiring in June. Currently the board has three members. “The recruitment process is an administrative function and it started last year so the board has to see it to its end. But we cannot approve certain issues which require the whole team,” Kung’u said. He said an advertisement had already been done for the vacancy of the whole board. Following a prior advertisement for vacant medical positions on September 21, last year, the board started the recruitment of 1,159 people who had been shortlisted. The interviews are expected to end next month. Last October, it was disclosed that 253 employees had retired and the county urgently needed to fill the positions. This prompted the board’s decision to advertise for the vacancies.