Title: Assume Form Artiste: James Blake Genre: Alternative R&B Release: January 18  James Blake is a brilliant mind. He is a British singer, songwriter and producer who has four of his own albums, and has contributed to acclaimed projects such as Frank Ocean's 'Blonde,' Beyonce's 'Lemonade' and Travis Scott's 'Astroworld.' He has also been in the company of great artistes like Kendrick Lamar, Bon Iver, Chance the Rapper and Jay Z helping them realise fantastic projects. It's been all about hard work and refining his skill and ultimately making a strong case on moderation and diversity. James Blake's 2016 album 'The Colour of Anything' certainly solidified his position in the music scene. It exhibited great individualism with the artiste shining brightly in an electronic pop sound that exhibited his exquisite, distorted vocals and the emotional space he's occupied. Now he's back with his fourth full-length project "Assume Form" which is an amusing extension of his catalogue. James has always been very confessional and that how he kicks off his 12-track album expressing his struggle and recovery from depression on "Assume Form." The track sample's slam poet Rage Almighty's piece titled "Depression" presenting an excerpt that details what depression feels like. Travis vocals flawlessly meld with Blake's over a Metro Boomin' beat on "Mile High," a track about being part of the mile high club. Metro Boomin' also makes a great impact on "Tell Them" which features the mighty vocals of Moses Sumney. Blake highlights a one-night stand that leaves him self-analyzing himself and his decision not to be close to somebody. "Barefoot in the Park" introduces us to the mastery of ROSALÍA who helps Blake express love with so much passion. André 3000 offers bars and excellent performance on the electronic track "Where's the Catch." More than anything else, when it comes to James Blakes, he zeroes in on the essence of things and he does so hard. James Blake quavering vocals probably play a great role in his brilliance, making his music rattle with perfect intensity. Any avid music listener will notice the tremendous change that tells of Blake's person from when he released his debut, self-titled LP to the current space he commands. It's not a surprise why he seems to be one of the most sought crooners by the hip-hop fraternity. He certainly deserves it.  Star rating: 3.5 out of 5 