Lands Cabinet Secretary Faridah Karoney has announced that the government will provide title deeds to 13,000 public schools before the year ends. The Cabinet Secretary said her ministry is in the process of harmonising all public schools land ownership. A large number of the institutions, she noted, have wrangles on land ownership with churches, individuals and communities but the processing of titles for institutions that do not have pending conflicts will be fast tracked. “We are also putting in place measures that will help resolve all land disputes to ensure they get their documents,” Karoney said, adding that there 33,000 public learning institutions in the country. She expressed concerns that huge chunks of land belonging to hospitals, police stations, prisons, and schools have been lost to individuals and that her ministry will work together with communities to ensure all grabbed public land is reclaimed. The title deeds will stop encroachment of public school’s land by greedy individuals and enable the schools to expand without limitations of space, Karoney said. Speaking at Murang’a Catholic diocese education day at St. Mary’s cathedral on Saturday, she said reclamation of grabbed land is the only way to ensure future generations have sufficient space to learn, play and engage in recreation activities. “Our institutions will also have enough space to expand and offer better services to people especially hospitals,” she added. She pointed out that some schools will have no land in 30 years if the reclamation process is not started now. She warned those with title deeds to land belonging to public institutions to return them before any action is taken against them. Land grabbing has locked some schools out of co-curricular activities which are vital for growth of children and exposing talent due to lack of space. “We have seen some instances where school land’s tittle deeds are in the possession of some individuals but we will ensure all this land is re-possessed,” Karoney said. Murang’a University of Technology is one of the institutions facing encroachment of land and has appealed for help to repossess part of its 70 acres of land from individuals. The University’s council chairman Joachim Osur said in August last year that an attempt by the institution to erect a perimeter wall around its premises was hampered by grabbers. Osur who was speaking during the University’s first graduation ceremony appealed to both national and county governments to help reclaim the land which has more than 10 private developers. Karoney appealed to the church to help fight for land belonging sponsored schools and weed out individuals out to take advantage of such facilities. Bishop Maria Wainaina on his part condemned individuals intent on stealing public resources saying they deny others their rights. “Their greed denies others the chance to nurture their talents toa access education in an enabling environment. It is a shame that people do not learn to be contented with what they have,” the Bishop said.