Cabinet secretaries, led by Interior’s Fred Matiang’i, have toured Embu to inspect national government projects. Matiang’i said the tour is to ensure the projects being implemented by the government are progressing as expected. This is in line with President Uhuru Kenyatta’s directive to form a Cabinet committee that will strictly focus on implementation and development of national government projects. The team started its work four weeks ago. Matiang’i said the committee has been reviewing national government projects all over the country and has now started going to the regions. “We have come to the point of going to the regions and we are sitting down with national government administrations in the regions to ensure the projects are being implemented and going on well,” he said. The CS said the purpose of the tour is to ensure the government is not losing resources and projects are completed within their deadlines. He said they have started Eastern, where they will meet projects’ field officers. The CS said the committee will tour all the eight regions. “The President wants delivery and not stories,” Matiang’i said. Transport and Housing CS James Macharia said the government aims to build 500,000 houses in its housing agenda to cater for the prevailing 200,000 deficit. “Already, we have developers and investors who we have approached with housing stock exceeding one million houses, that is double our target,” he said. Governor Martin Wambora said the county government would continue working closely with the national government to achieve the President’s Big Four agenda. The team toured Embu Level 5 Hospital, where the national government is building a CT scan laboratory after a courtesy call to Wambora’s office. The team also inspected an ongoing civil servants housing project before inspecting a road being built at Kathangariri, which is about 73 per cent completed. Other CSs who accompanied Matiang’i included Farida Karoney (Lands), Eugene Wamalwa (Devolution), Sicily Kariuki (Health), Simon Chelugui (Water) and Joe Mucheru (ICT). Matiang’i was put at the heart of the Executive following Uhuru’s radical reorganisation of his administration and establishment of a four-tier hierarchy of authority. In the arrangement, the Interior CS gets reports from the county commissioners, who get daily briefs from their juniors.The deputy county commissioners get their briefs from chiefs and sub-chiefs.