ODM’s National Governing Council has ratified its executive council decision to kick out Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa. The top party’s organ, however, gave a lifeline to Msambweni MP Suleiman Dori who had also been recommended for expulsion. Addressing the delegates, party leader Raila Odinga sent a strong warning to members who hide under the handshake to undermine the party saying the party will not hesitate taking action against any disloyal member. “I wish to remind our members and supporters that despite the handshake and the Building Bridges Initiative, party loyalty remains both critical and valuable,” Raila said. Dori had written an apology letter to the NGC pleading for review of the recommendation to have him ousted. The letter which was read to delegates sparked a heated debate with some members demanding outright rejection of the apology. Read: Jumwa: I’m still Malindi MP despite expulsion from ODM It took the intervention of Raila to have the expulsion deferred after he appealed to delegates who were demanding that the Msambweni MP just like Aisha be shown the door. “If a child makes a mistake and he begs for forgiveness, as a good father you must invite him to the table and talk to him,” Raila told the delegates during the closed-door meeting. Addressing the media, ODM Secretary General Edwin Sifuna said NGC will have a sitting with Dori to plead his case before the delegates. The special meeting will either uphold or set aside the decision. “Having received a letter of apology from Suleiman Dori the members resolved to defer its decision and summon him to a special session of the National Governing Council to mitigate his case,” Sifuna announced. The delegates unanimously endorsed the expulsion of Aisha whom they claimed has not been remorseful for her actions. Aisha and Dori were accused of heading Deputy President William Ruto’s 2022 presidential campaign in Coast region. The party will now forward Aisha’s name to the Registrar of Political Parties to have her name struck off the roll of ODM members. Read: That’s hypocrisy, Murkomen tells ODM on Jumwa expulsion Both Dori and Jumwa denied the allegations when they appeared before the party’s NEC last month. The Political Parties Act says a party member may only be expelled for contravening the party constitution after being accorded a fair hearing in accordance with internal dispute resolution mechanisms. A member of a party may, therefore, be deemed to have resigned upon a resolution of the national executive committee of the political party. ODM will, therefore, have to inform the political parties registrar to assess whether the complaint against Jumwa is justified or not. If justified, the Registrar may make a declaration based on sufficient grounds for the person to be deemed to have resigned. Where the Registrar is of the opinion that there is a reasonably justifiable cause, the Registrar shall notify Jumwa and ODM of the decision. Section 103 of the Constitution stipulates that Parliament shall enact legislation providing for the circumstances under which a member of a political party shall be deemed to have resigned from the party. Jumwa’s woes started last year after she openly declared her support for Deputy President William Ruto’s 2022 president bid. Kakuyuni MCA Nixon Muramba said they fully support the decision as it has clearly shown the party must be respected. “Mama Aisha Jumwa we told you but you undermined us , you insulted us but we never gave up ,” he said. He assured the ODM party that they would win the seat if the by- election is called . “If she is strong let her not go to court like her come to the ground and prove her popularity,” he said. The candidate who will be given the ODM mantle during the by election will carry the day. Jubilee party candidate Phillip Charo who has been silent since the elections called for calmness in Malindi constituency to ensure there is no political tension which could affect business in the resort town that relies on tourism. More: Jumwa's critics rejoice, allies fault ODM over expulsion Click here for the latest political news