The introduction of mass education after World War II has in many respects broken the barriers of class and made education a birthright of every citizen, globally. One might argue about the quality of education. But literacy and basic functional capability are on the march. An increasing proportion of the general population will now have in their possession the requisite knowledge and skills they can sell in the labour marketplace. In Africa, the 'settler economy' demanded literate Africans to support the colonial administration. At Independence, many African governments pledged to eradicate illiteracy, alongside poverty and disease. As you can well imagine, the goal or eradicating illiteracy soon crashed into the twin headwinds of teacher shortage and ill-trained teachers. Invariably, schools established by and run by the colonialists were of high standards. These tended to be missionary schools. Similarly, urban schools established through the education boards had relatively qualified teachers for the most part. For the isolated remote villages, schools and teachers were hard to find. Literacy levels in rural areas were low five decades ago, and they still remain low compared to more urbanised locations. The instrumental intent of education has often trumped the intrinsic value of education. From an instrumental perspective, and in the sense of the colonialists ists, education was an inevitable possession of labour markets. In the post-colonial era and in the full bloom of capitalism, there is a dominant inclination to align education to local labour markets, employment. The World Bank, in its immense wisdom, was categorically of the view that what the developing world needed to fire up their nascent economies was a legion of primary school-educated citizens. In a sense, basic education to perform menial tasks was all that was necessary. And there were complex econometric computations to prove that the gains in labour productivity for primary school-educated individuals were higher than the gains for individuals with post-primary education. However, the intrinsic view of education sees no link between education, especially higher education, and labour market purposes. Hence, the content and substance of learning should not be aligned to labour markets. Higher education, especially university education, must not be aligned to the needs of employers or the demands of the economy. Such a binary construct is, without doubt, both limited and troubling. To quote former US President Barack Obama, “I promise you, folks can make a lot more potentially, with skilled manufacturing or the trades than they might with an art history degree.” I am sure Obama, a product of a liberal arts education, regrets this statement. Yes, graduates need jobs. But universities will not produce the skills that Kenya’s economy, which is largely driven by jua kali products and services. So what then should be the role of university education? The conceptual hinterland of higher education must change. As Ronald Barnett, professor of higher education, says, “The task of an adequate philosophy of higher education is not merely to understand the university or even to defend it but to change it.”  Alex O. Awiti is the Vice Provost of Aga Khan University