Deputy President William Ruto has said the government’s development record cannot be erased through propaganda. He said the Jubilee administration has a solid plan for the country that would transform the lives of Kenyans. Dr Ruto cautioned Kenyans against a smear campaign run by people seeking to taint Jubilee's track-record and stain President Uhuru Kenyatta's legacy. "We built the Standard Guage Railway, we have built roads, we have connected thousands of households and businesses to power, and we will build dams because we are a responsible government focused on delivering on our promises," the DP said. Ruto spoke on Saturday during the launch of the 2019 National Lenten campaign in Nyeri. Opposition leaders Kalonzo Musyoka and Musalia Mudavadi were present. The DP said construction of dams in various parts of the country will continue “because it is in tandem with the Big Four agenda”. He said it was unfortunate that some leaders are politicising development projects in the name of the fight against corruption. Appreciating that public resources must be prudently used, Ruto said corruption must be fought on the basis of facts and through the courts as opposed to the use of the media. "What is unacceptable to us is the use of propaganda with the aim of politicising and profiling government projects so that development partners can run away," he said. Ruto said the fight against corruption will not be relaxed since the government had mobilised resources to enable the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions and the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission to fight the vice. Read: Sh7b isn't pocket change to buy Maandazis, Raila bashes Ruto over dam scandal Also read: Flat lie? DP Ruto denies loss of Sh21 billion in dams scandal Musyoka echoed Ruto's sentiments, saying the DPP should conduct intense and accurate investigations relating to corruption cases and establish the truth before other agencies can take over. "Time has come when we must slay the dragon of corruption," the Wiper leader said. Mudavadi told Kenyans to unite and support the government in the fight against graft. “As Kenyans, let us stand as one. Let us work together and team up to fight corruption," he said. Mudavadi said money lost to corruption could be used to pay striking nurses, used in youth empowerment, among other anti-poverty projects. The event was also attended by Public Service SC Margaret Kobia, Nyeri Governor Mutahi Kahiga, Deputy Governor Caroline Karugu, MPs Ngunjiri Wambugu (Nyeri Town), Rigathi Gachagua (Mathira), Catherine Waruguru (Laikipia), Joyce Kemene (Machakos) and Innocent Momanyi (Bobasi). Others were Dan Maanzo (Makueni), Alfred Agoi (Sabatia), Beatrice Adagala (Vihiga), Anthony Kiai (Mukurwe-ini), Mwangi Gichuhi (Tetu), Jessica Mbalu (Kibwezi East) and Danson Mwashako (Wundanyi). Nyeri Catholic Archdiocese Archbishop Anthony Muheria condemned corruption. He said the vice would bring the country on its knees. He asked Kenyans to shun the culture of greed for quick money and wealth acquired from corrupt dealings and gambling. "Let us strive to ensure that impunity, which is the cradle of corruption is broken so that this graft monster will be starved. Let us pray that our hands shake before we touch a bribe,” Muheria said. Click here for the latest political news