The National Police Service Commission last year developed a career progression guideline for police officers in ranks other than Inspector General and deputy IG to ease officers' stagnation concerns. During vetting of police officers, NPSC established that some officers have remained in one rank for up to 30 years, while others served in the same rank up to their retirement. This was cited as the biggest problem affecting the morale of the officers, prompting many to exit the service and making the NPS unable to retain talents. The NPS human resources guideline aimed to eliminate this. The policy document, unveiled by President Uhuru Kenyatta in August, outlines a raft of guidelines for recruitment, promotion, career progression, transfers and disciplinary measures for police officers. NPSC developed the framework document with the assistance of the Public Service Commission, setting requirements which target enhancing professionalism in the service. The first police career guide is meant to inculcate competitiveness, transparency and merit in the service dogged by claims of tribalism, nepotism, corruption and cronyism-based promotions. NPSC sought to provide for a well-defined career structure, which will attract, motivate and facilitate retention of suitably qualified and competent police officers. The commission, in the document, roots for the mandatory promotion of officers after serving for a certain period or explanation should the promotion be delayed Every officer from the lowest rank of police constable to the middle-level command rank of inspector must be promoted to the next rank after serving in each rank for three years, failing which NPS should explain to the NPSC why the promotion was not available for the officer.  MERIT AND ABILITY The document provides for clearly defined job descriptions and specifications, with clear delineation of duties and responsibilities at all levels in the career structure to enable officers to understand the requirements and demands of their jobs. It sets two entries for NPS, training and advancement in the career structure on the basis of professional qualifications, knowledge of the job, experience, competence, merit and ability, as reflected in work performance and results. The NPSC developed the elaborate programme to enable it to retain professionals such as medical doctors, health personnel, engineers, accountants, IT experts and human resources personnel, among other fields in the NPS for effective delivery of services. The scheme of service sets out the progression from recruitment and the skills upgrading training that should precede a police officer's promotion from one rank to the next. The IG is mandated with implementing the guidelines, working together with the NPSC. "In administering the guidelines, the Inspector General of NPS will ensure the provisions of the career progression guidelines are strictly observed for fair and equitable treatment of officers and that, officers are confirmed in their appointment after completion of their probation period," it reads. "The IG will ensure that appropriate induction, mentoring, training opportunities, equipment and facilities are provided. This will assist serving officers to acquire the necessary additional qualifications or specialisation and experience required for both efficient performances of their policing duties and advancement within the career ranks. The officers should also be encouraged to undertake training privately for self-development. In all matters of training, however, the IG will consult with the commission." However, more police officers who have acquired additional education have not been appraised according to their academic advancement. The scheme emphasised that the qualifications and conditions it sets out are the minimum requirements entitling an officer for consideration for appointment and promotion to higher ranks. "Advancement from one rank to another should also depend on merit and ability, as reflected in work performance and results, the existence of a vacancy within the authorised establishment, and approval by the commission," it states. Click here for the latest political news