The Sh63 billion dams scandal has triggered panic in Deputy President William Ruto's camp as the arrests of high-profile government officials, including Cabinet secretaries, loom. On Monday the Directorate of Criminal Investigations summoned 107 companies' directors to be questioned over implementation of the Sh63 billion Arror and Kimwarer multi-purpose dams projects. Since then Ruto has been meeting allies on how to respond to DCI investigations. According to multiple sources, Ruto and his allies agreed to have senators, MPs and governors from the region, and their bloggers launch an aggressive campaign dismissing claims Sh63 billion could have been lost. Yesterday, Ruto gave the deal a clean bill of health at a function attended by President Uhuru Kenyatta - amid indications two CSs are soon to be arrested over the dams saga. Ruto also defended the proposed Jomo Kenyatta International Airport takeover by Kenya Airways. Reports had emerged that the DP's wing opposed it. Read: Flat lie? DP Ruto denies loss of Sh21 billion in dams scandal It is reported the Kenyatta family has an interest in the takeover because the chairman of their bank CBA, Isaac Awuondo, is also the KAA chairman. The DP downplayed tension within Jubilee, denying reports the Sh21 billion already paid for the Arror and Kimwarer dams has been stolen. Speaking when the Judiciary released its annual report in Nairobi, Ruto said reported figures on stolen funds were misleading. "You've heard government lost about Sh21 billion, which is a flat lie! The money in question is about Sh7 billion, and for every coin paid, we have a bank guarantee," he said. "The correct information must be used so we can nail the real culprit," he said. "Sometimes we say Sh9 billion has been lost, we go to court and are told it's Sh100 million. Sometimes we shoot ourselves in the foot." His chief of staff Ken Osinde is listed as a director of Sanlam Company, among the 107 companies whose directors were summoned to record police statements. Detectives are probing why the firm was paid Sh47 million by Italian firm CMC di Ravenna, said to have pocketed billions for work not done. Kinoti says the investigation centres on whether the firm insured non-existent project at taxpayers' expense. But as Ruto put on a brave face, his lieutenants are understood to believe this fresh graft war by the DCI is another witch-hunt targeting the DP, aimed at creating a narrative that the Kalenjin community is corrupt. Read: Kinoti summons big names in dams probe More: Rotich defends payments for dams project, says deal above board Since Kinoti and Director of Criminal Investigations Noordin Haji took office last year, most of those who have fallen in the graft war are mostly from the Kalenjin community and when not from the Rift Valley, they are believed to be Ruto associates. Ruto's deputy director of communications Emmanuel Tallam and Kericho Senator Aaron Cheruiyot exposed the unease in the Jubilee administration over the way Kinoti and Haji are waging war. "To win to win this war on corruption we need to hire an extra DPP and DCI. Competent ones who can prosecute their cases in courts. The current drama queens can be left to run the war on headlines and social media, there they do really well but that's just about it," Cheruiyot tweeted. Tallam said strong forces within government are using the DPP and DCI to target the Deputy President. "It is time to separate the fight against William Ruto from the fight against corruption. It will save limited resources," he said. Belgut MP Nelson Koech questioned the independence of DCI and DPP, saying they seem to have forgotten their mandate and now seek media attention. "What the public envisaged with an independent ODPP and DCI were convictions for criminal and corruption cases. But what makes news from those two offices is dramatic arrests of senior civil servants and company proprietors," he told the Star. "Sensationalised headlines with inflated figures of graft and circulars from publicising names and companies on their radar. What happens is now predicable: arrest on Friday, arraign on Monday, seek 10 days to 'complete investigation', and then withdrawing those cases with time," Koech said. He said Kinoti and Haji may not secure convictions but are instilling fear in civil servants which will hurt performance. "So far we have zero convictions ...[I agree] with those saying we have an overzealous and excited DPP and DCI chief keen on cheap and short-term publicity," the DP's ally said. He added, "We are equally tainting images of companies that have worked in this country for long. They built their brands over time and it is a disservice to publish their names with letterheads of ODPP or EACC." Senate Majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen said the construction of a multi-purpose dam in his county proceeds, adding that investigations into impropriety should not be an excuse to undermine the project. He said Kinoti should not appear to target only those in certain regions. "We demand equal treatment in investigation of all projects in all sectors and in all counties to be treated in a similar manner. The falsehoods peddled are meant to whip up emotions and to give cartels an excuse to terminate projects," he said in a statement in the Senate. "There is an African proverb that says “when a hyena wants to eat its children, it first accuses them of smelling like goats”...a hyena wants to eat the goats of Elgeyo Marakwet county and as the father of the county I can’t allow the negative and selective characterisation of development projects in my county," he added. Murkomen told Kinoti not to be used fight 2022 political wars "It's unfortunate the project is being weaponised for 2022. I see labelling Kenyan citizens based on ethnic identity as corrupt and the massive operation mounted against one individual’s political ambitions," he said However, on Wednesday, Haji rejected claims of a selective war on corruption, saying prosecutions should not be linked to Ruto but each individual should carry their own cross. "When somebody from your community steals, is it you? If somebody comes from the DP's community, that doesn't mean it's the DP," Haji said in Mombasa. Read: Murkomen blasts Kinoti over 'baseless' probe on Arror, Kimwarer dams Click here for the latest political news