Authorities have launched investigations into a chopper crash that killed Deputy President William Ruto's pilot and four American tourists in Turkana on Sunday evening. Kenya Civil Aviation director general Gilbert Kibe yesterday two helicopters got airborne from Lake Turkana Central Island but one crashed. heading to Lobolo Camp. “Soon after take-off, one of the helicopters unfortunately lost contact and crashed on the island," Kibe said. The chopper was a Bell 505X, registration 5YKDL. They were leaving the island for Lobolo Camp within Turkana. Kibe said all the five people on board perished. The Air Accident Investigation Department is investigating the circumstances that led to the crash. Those on board were four US citizens and the pilot, captain Mario Magonga. Kibe said search and rescue operation was activated and coordinated by the KCAA Rescue Coordination Centre. He said police were immediately informed. “A rescue team was immediately dispatched and they arrived at the island at around 11.20pm and located the wreckage at 3.20am with no survivors,” Kibe said. Captain Magonga, an ex-military pilot hails from Nyamataro, Kitutu Chache South in Kisii county. Magonga was a former Kenya Defence Forces pilot. KIDL described him as Chief Pilot who was a qualified helicopter instructor trained in the KDF. Information about other passengers on board remained scanty. Magonga is a first cousin to Kitutu Chache South MP Richard Onyonka. Turkana Central deputy county commissioner Alexander Motivo said the two choppers were seen on Sunday evening approaching Lobolo tented camp before one crashed. "The tourists were set to travel on Monday to Central Island, about 75km from Lake Turkana but one plane went missing and it didn't land at Lobolo," Motivo said. Yesterday, KIDL helicopters manager Marco Brighetti said the two helicopters were airborne and headed for Lobolo camp, about 15km south west of the Turkana Central Island. “One helicopter operated by KIDL, a Bell 505X lost control shortly after takeoff,” Brighetti said. “An incredibly sad day for the families of the deceased, aviation community and KIDL helicopters.”    