Lucas Monata was at work in his Tassia Health Centre on the morning of December 12 last year when ten men arrived for what they said was a medical checkup. Godhard Mburu, Vincent Maronga, Geoffrey Lotome, Kennedy Atemi, Elijah Odhiambo, Erick Ochieng, Enock Kipkemoi, Alphonse Ochieng, Oscar Opondo and Paul Mwangi won the doctor's trust then abducted him. The ten, who are police officers, were charged before Kibera senior resident magistrate Jane Kamau where they denied the charges and were released on bond. The complainant attempted to withdraw the matter on Friday when it came up for a hearing but the state prosecutor declined due to the sensitivity of the case. “One of them requested for HIV test while the other claimed to be unwell and needed to see a doctor,” Monata said in court documents. Essau Situma, a lab technician at the facility took the one in need of an HIV test to the lab as Mary (receptionist) called the doctor from his house nearby to attend to the other. By then other cops were still outside the facility manning the vehicle. Situma did his procedural duties before taking blood samples from the officer,  placed it in a kit and labelled it “male” because the patient refused to give his name but instead paid Sh200 test fee. The doctor was by then attending to the other “patient” who needed medical assistance. “On coming back from the lab, the officer entered into the consultation room where he was offered a seat,” Monata told the police. But the officer refused to sit and instead told the doctor that he was not a good person and a CID officer was coming to arrest him. He then signalled the other officer who also forced his entry into the consultation room. “They told me that I was under arrest and I was to be booked at Pangani Police Station,” Monata said. They claimed that they were officers from different police stations. The two officers then led Monata to his residence where he demanded they identify themselves. They showed him identity cards showing Kenya Police Service but the other details were unclear. The two officers then told the doctor that he was a criminal and they had information that he had a motor vehicle with South Sudanese number plates inside his compound. The doctor admitted he had the vehicle with such description and told them that the vehicle’s logbook was inside his house. The officers demanded to be showed the logbook and that they conduct a search in his house to ascertain whether he had a gun. When the doctor tried to contact his wife, the officers snatched his mobile phone. The officers forced him to the bedroom alledging that he had hidden an AK 47 rifle. Immediately they entered his bedroom they demanded that he present his foreign motor vehicle logbook and surrender his AK 47 rifle to them. Monata opened the drawer, removed the logbook for the vehicle and handed it to them. The officers then told him to carry some cash since it was important towards saving his life later. The doctor then took the cash amounting to Sh261,000 placed in his socks and was instructed to walk up to where the policemen had parked their vehicle. The trio boarded a pick -up and drove through Mombasa Road up to Nairobi county headquarters. Upon arriving, the police vehicle was parked and one of the officers alighted claiming to have gone to see the boss. Court documents show that after a short while the officer returned and said that he had been instructed that the doctor be driven to Kayole area since he had refused to cooperate. At Kayole the vehicle was parked next to the CID offices where he alleged to have stayed for one hour when a light blue Subaru Forester arrived. “I was forced to alight from the pickup vehicle and ordered to enter the Subaru. My hands were tied with tape and later handcuffed from behind,” he said. He said that they sealed his mouth with tape while demanding to know where he had placed the gun. He reported that he was tortured and fearing for his life, admitted that he was a thief. “I had to admit that I was a thief to get my freedom,” the court documents read. The handcuffs were then removed, as was the tape covering his mouth. He was ordered to return inside the pick-up. While inside, one of the officers removed the money amounting to Sh261,000 the doctor had carried from the house in his socks. The officers, later on, demanded more cash to free him and called his wife who sent him more Sh30,000 via Mpesa. The cops forced him into the Subaru and took him to a nearby Mpesa agent where he withdrew the cash and brought to them. The cops then gave him an Mpesa number 0707919229 telling him that he keeps communicating to them through it whenever required to. Later on at around 9pm the same day, the doctor was released and told never to mention anything that had happened to him else he will be shot dead. He went back to his home and upon arriving found his wife had already reported the matter at Embakasi Police Station. The investigations by the Special Crime Prevention Unit commenced on 18 December last year. The investigations led to the arrest of some of the officers linked to the abduction and robbery of the complainant. They were charged with robbery with violence contrary to section 296(2) of the penal code and abduction contrary to section 260 of the penal code.