Some civil society groups have dismissed the Building Bridges Initiative as a plot by President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga to control state power. Uwazi consortium yesterday warned that the much-anticipated BBI report may, after all, not inspire confidence in Kenyans as it has an insidious agenda. International Policy Group, African Electoral Observation Group, Transform and Empower for Action Initiative, Centre for Minority Rights Development, Hema La Katiba are some of the lobbies in the association. The group in its survey said the BBI team's operations are shrouded in mystery and conspiracy. The group also says the BBI seeks to institutionalise two people's personal objectives using state resources. In its report, the consortium tore into the whole process of the establishment of the BBI task force, giving a blow to blow account of how Kenyans are less confident in the team's end results. “Many think that BBI is a conspiracy between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga to control state power beyond the 2022 political transition,” the consortium said. “Others believe that the two leaders are hell-bent on ensuring that state power is captured by people of their choice.” The BBI is, therefore, a mockery, a waste of time, a waste of resources and a rubber-stamping exercise, concluded the report. The group said the public hearings organised by the BBI task force were not transparent but indicative of a predetermined outcome. It said most of the hearings were poorly attended by people selected by county commissioners. “The meetings are carefully, secretly organised and are therefore dress rehearsals supposed to deceive the people of Kenya. The study did not find anything that inspires confidence in the BBI,” Uwazi said. The report stated that the handshake between President Uhuru and his new soul mate Raila, and which led to the formation of the BBI, was surrounded by mystery and was not structured. “The result of this is that the people of Kenya are less confident and disappointed in the proceeding events,” the report observed laying bare Kenyans' suspicions over BBI. According to the report, given that the task force was not formed through Parliament or through a decision of the cabinet, the issues it would seek to address will not be public policies.