Kanduyi MP Wafula Wamunyinyi  has dismissed as untrue the claims of neglect and bias in the sharing of CDF cash. He said the CDF office has adopted an all-inclusive approach to ensure fairness and equitable distribution. He was reacting to allegations by Khalaba MCA Majimbo Okumu that his ward has been ignored. Wamunyinyi said no part of the constituency has been left out. He said the sharing is done equitably to ensure regions that lag behind in development catch up with the rest. The constituency has eight wards. "It will be very unfair and lack of equitable distribution of resources if, for example, we decided to distribute the same money to schools in Khalaba ward, which has four schools and Musikoma which has over twenty schools," Wamunyinyi said. He said Khalaba has the right to benefit from the CDF kitty and added that in the last financial year, the CDF office built a multipurpose hall at Wamalwa Kijana Secondary and modern toilets at Kanduyi Primary School. He regretted that some pit latrines had sunk at Mukhaweli Primary and the office had not come to its rescue in time. Wamunyinyi said that when the school wrote to his office, the financial year was ending and it was difficult to access resources. “My CDF officials acknowledge that they received a letter from the school over the sorry state of affairs of the latrines at Mukhaweli Primary, but it was unfortunate that the year was closing and it proved difficult to access funding," he said. Wamunyinyi said the exchequer releases money for particular projects and in piecemeal. “The money we had had been released for particular projects as is the norm with project-based budgets, our hands were tied,” he said. The MP, however, said he was working round the clock to ensure the problem is fixed. The constituency receives Sh118 million per year but the cash is never released at once making it difficult to deal with emergencies, he said. He urged Okumu to forge a good working relationship with other leaders. "The two of us can call each other and find an amicable way of handling such emerging issues rather than shouting at each other on media forums. After all, what our people need from the two of us is service delivery,” Wamunyinyi said. He said sometimes the ward rep declines to pick his calls when he wants to discuss pertinent issues. The legislator also refuted claims that his CDF team is embroiled in corruption and never awards open tenders. He said his approach is to give institutions cheques so they do their projects independently. "It's true I never advertise for tenders in my office but that does not amount to any form of corruption. My office hands over the cheques to the schools, which decide whether to advertise or do the labour-based approach on their own,” he said. He said he is on record asking any CDF beneficiary to come out and report those asking for kickbacks. “I will not tolerate any person from my office going to beneficiaries to ask for kickbacks. After all, we issue the cheques after assessing the needs of the different institutions,” he said. He reaffirmed his commitment to working with other leaders to spur development. (Edited by F'Orieny)