World 10,000m silver medalist Peter Toroitich is oozing with confidence ahead of the inaugural Africa Deaf Athletics starting today at Moi International Sports Centre (MISC), Kasarani. Toroitich, who finished second at the 2013 World Deaf Athletics Championships, is positive he will win gold in the 10,000m and has also tipped Kenya for a podium sweep. Today, Toroitich, also the 2017 Deaflympics 10,000m bronze medallist, will line up against compatriots Martin Gache and Amos Langat in the finals of his speciality. Toroitich is also the 2017 marathon silver medallist. “My target is to win the race and as of now, I don’t see anything that will bar me doing so. Maybe Gache and Langat will be my main threats. I don’t think these other countries will give us competition,” noted Toroitich through his interpreter Rose Omollo. “I know my compatriots in the race very well. We have trained together in the last two weeks and I can say we all fit the podium bill,” added the self-trained runner who sharpens his skills in Turkana West. DAAK’s secretary-general Bernard Banja, through the interpreter Jane Mwangi, expressed his faith in Team Kenya to win the championships but also cited Uganda and Nigeria as their biggest threats from the 12-nations taking part. Banja said: “Kenya is ready to take on the continent. The athletes have been in good hands of competent coaches led by Sammy Kibet and I am confident they will do us proud,” In the women’s 10,000m race, Kenya will be represented by Juster Kwamesa, Laureen Ngonga and Hannah Wanjiru. Also scheduled for today are both genders’ in 1,500m, where Kenya has fielded Kokobi Omari, John Koech and Dennis Kiprop (men) and Wanjiru, Viola Jelimo and Grancy Kenichi (women). Idah Odera and Chaka Anzazi will compete in the long jump while Bernard Onyango, Benjamin Kimitei and Meshack Wachira will participate in men’s discuss. The event has attracted Algeria, Botswana, Cameroon, Ghana, Nigeria, Ethiopia, Mauritius, Libya, Mozambique, Uganda, Zanzibar and hosts Kenya.