The ongoing Grade 3 assessment will be the first record of the learners' evaluation portfolio to be used to transition learners from primary to secondary schools. The Kenya National Examination Council will collect the score of each of the 1.3 million learners and use a unique number to track their progress. The council has said the current assessment will be used to gauge the level of learners' understanding of the new curriculum, but this move suggests a shift in plans. Already, teachers are tasked with creating a folder of the learners’ progress assessed through continuous assessment tests (CATs). This year's Grade 3 assessment materials will be the model teachers are expected to use in preparing CATs that learners will take under the new curriculum. "We have been instructed to record what each learner scores in the KNEC portal but we will not issue report cards," A teacher at Nairobi Primary School told the Star on Wednesday. The new developments raise questions of a possible return to the cut-throat competition associated with the KCPE and KCSE examinations. A 26-member task force to drive the transition from 8-4-4 to 2-6-3-3 education system in August recommended that national examinations be dropped. The recommendation could guarantee that all learners who get to Grade 6 transit to secondary schools. However, with the secondary schools divided into various clusters, the government is now puzzling on how the spaces will be allocated. Sources indicate the cumulative records in the learners portfolio could be used to solve this puzzle. "The government is yet to come up with the proper criteria to be used in distributing secondary school places. However, CATs will play a key role and this assessment could determine how future assessments will be conducted," an official told the Star yesterday. The pioneer class currently in Grade 3 is expected to move to secondary school in the year 2023. The Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development director Julius Jwan yesterday did not commit to whether the plan was in place. Jwan said the government is keen on ensuring learners transit from one level of education to the next without discrimination. "Do not jump the gun on how learners will move from primary to secondary school. We have to get the purpose of the new curriculum right and that is to develop a learner wholly," Jwan told the Star. Among challenges schools are facing in the assessment include under-staffing due to the time needed to attend to each child. Further, teachers also lack a standard guide on how to administer the assessment. “The assessment is thorough but the time being used to conduct the assessment for a single class is a lot. Given the nature of our public schools then teachers might end up doing a shoddy job," Kenya Primary School Heads Association Nicholas Gathemia told the Star yesterday.