First off, I would like to send a shout out to the women who let us borrow their men. Not in the way you are thinking. On Sunday evening I was going to meet a friend and my car would not start. Dead battery. The neighbours’ husbands came to my rescue. It cannot be easy to let your man help women in the darkness. It was drizzling besides. I am sure they would have preferred to have their men indoors, next to them. I know I would have been hovering like an evil spirit giving a myriad of useless advice to the damsel in distress like, “when it’s hot, put your battery outside in the sun. We used to do that to our batteries back in the day and our radios worked just fine!” So you are minding your own business, drinking water, using moisturiser in the morning and evening, generally living your best life. Then you get a random message from some guy. “Sasa mrembo!” It is six in the morning. Because you have not said you daily affirmations, you decide not to respond till later. You cannot have the devil’s agents distract you so early in the day. “Are you still working for such and such?” Destroyers of destinies do not give up easily. By this time you have already declared and decreed over your day and you feel confident enough to answer. “What do you want?” “Why did we stop talking?” Hehehe you can see him. He is probably bored and has free Wi-Fi. His wife maybe has just given birth and smells of baby vomit. Maybe he is broke and thinks you still work for Red Cross. He is thrill seeking. Went through his WhatsApp and thinks you are still a stupid heifer. But who is God? You are now a bad nini. Why are men like this though? I have asked and I am yet to get a satisfactory answer. Wait, I am not hating on men. So you, yes you. Do not call me a male basher next time we meet. I am not. I like you don't I? Moving on, I understand, really I do, that sex is important. But why pick out a woman, lie and pretend. Promise all sorts of things. Blame everyone for other things just so you can sleep with her then disappear till the next time you are bored? It is just not fair! Women have feelings. Who is it that said it is the mark of a coward to arouse a woman's love when you have no intention of loving her? Besides, why not support local businesses? Buy sex, save an innocent woman the heartache and make it to heaven. God wins! Why is it so difficult for men to make stuff clear. If it is just sex you want, say it. “Hi, long time, would really like it if we could fornicate this weekend!” Do not use words like ‘make love’ or ‘get together’, they tend to give good women hope for something long term. Can we please give women their right to choose? Maybe she does not want to be a mistress or a mpango wa kando. Do not trick her into the role. (It is not easy to leave after body fluids have been exchanged). Say, “so I am married and my wife just had a baby, you know how it goes. I’m feeling lonely. I like you, can you be my woman on the side?” Then add terms and conditions as well as remuneration. Then let her decide! I mean, men do not understand how disappointing it is. Sometimes you have talked yourself into liking the man; with all his flaws. In better times, you would not be caught dead with him. You even complement him (read: lie to him) on his mastery on matters bedroom. Then he is gone, off to cheat another woman and thinking he is good in the sack. We also want to go to heaven. Men, tell a woman the truth or leave her alone. You are creating monsters that you will not be able to deal with. fellyoyuga@gmail.com