President Uhuru Kenyatta's ambition to eradicate female circumcision by the time he leaves office could fail due to a lack of harmonious strategy in tackling the vice. Lower ages of circumcision, change in the type of FGM, increased secrecy, cross border cutting and medicalisation have emerged as new trends to counter anti-FGM strategies. This is according to a 2014-2017 Unicef and United Nations Population Fund joint programme on FGM in Kenya. According to the programme, the number of mutilators has reduced as a result of enforcement of the law and voluntary eradication by some, therefore, raising the demand for their services. Data from the programme states Kenya has made progress in accelerating the abandonment of the practice. The Kenya Demographic and Health Survey 2014, shows the national prevalence rate stands at 21 per cent compared to 29 per cent in 2008-9 and 32 per cent in 2003. However, prevalence still remain high in communities such as Somali, Samburu, Kisii, and Maasai. Somali has the highest prevalence rates at 94 per cent while Maasai have the prevalence at 78 per cent. Speaking during the Commonwealth Women's Affairs Ministers meeting in Nairobi on Thursday, Gender CS Margaret Kobia said the government had reviewed the national policy on FGM. "Action-oriented programmes are being implemented to eliminate all forms of discrimination against women and girls including eradicating Female Genital Mutilation by 2022 & creating an enabling environment to achieve economic, leadership & political power," she said. The CS has previously attributed outdated data and a lack of new strategies as reasons hampering the desire to end FGM. UNFPA executive director Natalia Kanem, during the meeting, lauded the Kenyan government for its commitment to ending practices that harm women and girls and hinder their potential, including female genital mutilation. FGM activist Sadia Hussein told the Star said the president's ambition was not realistic. Hussein said current players were only interested in being better than their counterparts. The survivor added though the Anti-FGM Board had been put in place, it could not end the vice alone. She said the director of public prosecution, Interior, Education and Health ministries should be harmonised in the fight. "The president should advise those allied to him to reach the grassroots and help him end FGM," she said.  "Another gap we have is on data because all we have is ethnic data, the issue of credibility also comes to mind. We need country-specific data so we have a broader perspective." Jeremiah Kipainoi, a campaigner from the Samburu Girls Foundation, said the president's ambition to end FGM is good but it may not work. He said not much had been achieved since the adoption of the Prohibition of FGM Act 2011. Kipainoi says the government needs to implement conscious mechanisms because the law alone cannot end the practice.