I am not one to hold grudges, Former Harambee Stars player McDonald Mariga has said after IEBC ruling. Earlier, IEBC cleared Mariga to run for Kibra by-election to be held on November 7. Mariga petitioned the commission after Kibra returning officer Beatrice Muli invalidated his nomination on grounds that his name was missing from the register of voters. "I thank you all for the good work. People have said so many bad things about me but I'm not the kind of person who says too much, I'm not one to hold grudges," Mariga said on Monday. Mariga expressed his ambition noting that he will emerge the winner in the upcoming by-election. "I have forgiven all those who spoke ill of me. I now want us to go to Kibra and speak to the people of Kibra because they are the ones who will decide who will be their leader," he said. "They are going to be my bosses and I know everything will go well on November 7." Jubilee legislators who accompanied Mariga lauded the ruling by the IEBC. Led by majority leader in the senate Kipchumba Murkomen, the leaders hailed IEBC saying that they had done a good job. "I'd like to say that justice has been done for our brother Mariga and we believe that these politics are not ours but for the people of Kibra and the victory will be for the people of Kibra," Murkomen said. Murkomen said Mariga will serve Kibra people if elected in the upcoming by-election slated for November 7th. Lang'ata MP Nixon Korir said the issue with Mariga's registration was a mere roadblock for him set by opponents. "We had expected them to do what they normally do. To do a case. They would bring Mariga's age. Mariga doesn't look like a baby. Mariga is above 19 years and to us, it doesn't matter," Nixon said. Former Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale who had also accompanied Mariga's team said the process was a fair process. "I want to request the competitors of Mariga to stop imaginary obstacles in the way, to settle the matter and let the people of Kibra vote. People who are trying to come up with the issue of age again let us inform you," Khalwale said. He said the issue to do with his age was not a matter to be considered since Mariga is over 18 years, hence eligible to vote.