Thirdway Alliance party leader Ekuru Aukot on Wednesday had a difficult time convincing Kwale MCAs to adopt the Punguza Mizigo bill. The bill seeks to shrink the public wage bill by lowering the number of elective seats. But the MCAs said the initiative - meant to amend the Constitution - will not address the problems of mwananchi. Led by Suleiman Nzala, the MCAs said the idea is null, terming it as doom for development. “The idea is indeed a curse for development,” Nzala said. He said the main problem is unnecessary debts. Nzala said it is impossible for counties to be monitored by MCAs only, saying activities are dynamic. “It is in this government that people have witnessed development. The Constituency Development Fund has transformed our lives,” the MCA said. Nominated MCA Hanifa Mwajirani said the bill is disrespectful to women, terming it as gender-biased. "The term Punguza Mizigo is insolent. Does it mean the nominated females are a burden? If we look at the Senate this particular bill has no equality at all. It simply means if one person is elected as a senator then that’s it,” Mwajirani said. Mkongani MCA Ndoro Mweruphe said changing the Constitution will not help unless leaders decide to serve citizens. But Kasemeni's Anthony Yama commended the bill, terming Aukot as a brave man who wants the best for all Kenyans. Yama, however, said the amendment bill concentrates on cutting down costs and increasing money flow in counties but doesn’t entail how those funds would be utilised. He said it was important for them to have highlighted in their bill special issues like devolving some sections of security, education among others and assigning specific duties. Aukot said Punguza Mizigo does not target to reduce counties, "neither is it gender imbalanced". He said they want to save constituency funds from reported misappropriation. The fate of the bill will be discussed later at another sitting by the MCAs. Aukot's bill will be tabled in Parliament if it is passed by 24 county assemblies. Edited by R.Wamochie