Gor Mahia players will need to show mental fortitude if they are to turn around their three-goal deficit and knock-out USM Alger in their first-round clash of the Caf Champions League. K’Ogalo lost the first leg 4-1 away in Algeria a fortnight ago to leave them with a mountain to climb going into tomorrow’s return leg at Kasarani. “My players are mentally strong and are ready for the game despite the financial situation. Supporters should fill the stadium and be behind the team for the entire 90 minutes,” said coach Steven Polack in his pre-match address. K’Ogallo will still be without new signings Francis Afiriye and Clifton Miheso for the encounter but Nicholas Kipkirui will be available after recovering from the knock he sustained in their league victory over KCB six days ago. “We will have the same 16 players that travelled to Algeria available. The training has been good and the players are adapting well to the new tactics,” he disclosed. Polack also took the opportunity to defend goalkeeper David Mapigano who was roundly blamed for the heavy first-leg defeat that leaves K’Ogalo with an uphill task to reach the next phase of the lucrative competition. “The keeper wasn’t to blame for the loss in Algeria. We win as a team, draw as a team and lose as a team. No player should be targeted. People have a right to their own opinion though.” With Gor set to go all out in search of the goals that would erase the deficit, they are likely to leave themselves open at the back. Polack said it will be crucial for them to keep the Algerians from scoring if they are to overturn the result. “We target at minimum a clean sheet and 3 goals,” he said curtly. Skipper Kenneth Muguna will be tasked with pulling the creative strings in a midfield that will include Lawrence Juma and Tobias Otieno. Kipkirui will be the main goal threat for the Kenyan champions. Caf has named Alioum Alioum from Cameroon as the centre referee for the match. He will be assisted by his compatriots Elvis Guy Noupue Nguegoue (first assistant), Rodrigue Menye Mpele (second assistant) and Antoine Max Effa Essouma (fourth official). Khalid Mohammed from Tanzania will serve as the match commissioner.