Deputy President William Ruto’s bid to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2022 has received a major boost after two Rift Valley governors endorsed him. The newly installed Bomet Governor Hillary Barchok and his Baringo counterpart Stanley Kiptis have thrown their weight behind Ruto's candidature. Barchok succeeded Joyce Laboso who died in July after a long battle with cancer. “Immediately Uhuru Kenyatta’s ten-year term elapses in 2022, we would want to see DP Ruto taking over power as the fifth president of Kenya,” Barchok said. The governors spoke on Saturday during the homecoming of Baringo deputy governor Jacob Chepkwony at Seretunin in Baringo Central subcounty. Baringo is the home-turf of Senator Gideon Moi, son of former President Daniel Arap Moi, who is also eyeing the presidency. The governors, however, blamed Uhuru’s handshake with ODM party leader Raila Odinga for the current Jubilee party woes. “It is my observation that Ruto has massive support from both the people of Baringo as well as my Bomet county,” Barchok said. Barchok said that Bomet residents have already made up their minds about who they want as president and are waiting to vote and have Ruto take over the instruments of power. “My appeal to the entire Kalenjin community in Rift Valley is that they should unite and speak in one voice to have our own clinch power,” Barchok said. Kiptis said the Deputy Presiden is fit for the top seat. The duo also supported the referendum push with the interest of increasing the allocation of development funds to the counties to 45 per cent. The governors’ endorsement adds up the DP Ruto’s robust network of supporters in the vote-rich Rift Valley region. The event was also graced by Nakuru deputy governor Eric Korir, his Elgeyo-Marakwet counterpart Wesley Rotich, Solomon Gubo (Marsabit), Susan Kikwai (Kericho), Yulita Mitei (Nandi) and Stanley Tarus (Trans-Nzoia). “I can see the Ruto wave gathering up well, let us continue assembling the numbers ahead of 2022 elections,” Rotich said. Besides supporting the DP, Tarus also took the opportunity to declare his ambition to vie against his second term boss Patrick Khaemba. “I know his term is going to expire before the next election and I am also legible and fit to contest for the Trans-Nzoia gubernatorial seat,” he said. (edited by O. Owino)