Maize production will drop by at least 11 million bags this year owing to drought, the government has said. Agriculture Chief Administrative Secretary Andrew Tuimur said last year farmers harvested about 43 million bags. Some 32 million bags are expected this year from high producing areas of Trans Nzoia and Uasin Gishu. Tuimur said the government is making plans to buy maize from farmers through the National Cereals and Produce Board to replenish the Strategic Grain Reserves. “We will soon announce the price at which the cereals board will buy maize.  Farmers should not worry because we are making early preparations before the harvesting season," he said. The majority of the farmers in the North Rift and South Rift regions are expected to start harvesting their maize next month. Last year, the NCPB bought maize from farmers at Sh2,300 per bag. Most farmers refused to sell their maize and demanded not less than Sh3,200 per bag to that they can make a profit. Strategic Food Reserve chairman Noah Wekesa said they will meet this month before announcing the price of maize to be sold at the NCPB. “The government will buy more stock from farmers this season. We are waiting for the Strategic Food Reserve board to come up with new prices,” Tuimur said. He said the drop in production is no cause for alarm as the country is well prepared. Farmers want their maize bought at a good price to that they do not make losses. Uasin Gishu farmer Tom Korgoreners asked the Strategic Food Reserve board to consider their input when reviewing last year’s price due to high cost of production. “As farmers, the board should consult us before it comes up with the new price. In the past the government has been setting the price without even knowing the cost of production," he said. Two months ago, the Strategic Food Reserve had blocked maize imports into the country arguing that there would be enough stock once farmers start harvesting. Wekesa said the country may need to import not more than 2 million bags as a precautionary measure in case of any shortages. Currently, maize prices are being sold at an average of Sh3,000 per 90kg bag in most areas.