Kiharu MP Ndini Nyoro, at the centre of political turmoil in a Murang'a church, was freed by the court on Tuesday for lack of a prosecution file. A triumphant Nyoro later declared that his persecutors had failed. The MP was present in court after his dramatic arrest on Monday night. About 150 GSU officers were said to be involved. But the magistrate freed him, saying the case could not proceed without a file. Tangatanga and Kileleweke supporters had clashed in Gitui Catholic Church in Muranga on Sunday and police intervened. Police had said Nyoro could be  charged with disrupting a church service and obstructing police. However, Deputy DPP Sebastian Mutinda old a Murang’a court that his office is yet to receive any charges against the MP. Mutinda asked resident magistrate Sheila Nyaga not to grant the MP bail as that would preempt a case yet to be tabled in the court. The MP was represented by Kandara MP Alice Wahome, Murang’a Senator Irungu Kang’ata and lawyer Gichimu Githinji. Their client is law-abiding and had to appear in court in accordance with the police directive, Nyoro's lawyers said. Wahome told the court that they were yet to receive documents on the charges to be preferred against the MP.   He was taken to Kamukunji police station before being released and directed to appear in court in the morning. After the court session, the three MPs proceeded through Murang’a town with their supporters. They denounced what they called attempts by some individuals to intimidate Nyoro over his affiliation with Tangatanga, which supports Deputy President William Ruto. Nyoro claimed there were reports that he was to be taken to Kamukunji police cells after his arrest and thugs were to rough him up. He said he was returned to  Murang’a police station, however, after reports that his supporters were there. He was released late at night. The MP claimed that he had received phone calls informing him that Kieleweke MPs were to attend a church function in his area and that they planned to finish him politically. "I thank the people of Kiharu for shielding and supporting me, he said. He said leaders are allowing police to be used politically, which would plunge the country back into the bad old days. Wahome said they will not accept a dictator government bent on harassing and arresting people without any reason. “It is embarrassing that over 150 GSU officers were dispatched to arrest Nyoro at night because residents had earlier shielded him from arrest," she told a crowd. “We have come from court, there were no files and no charges. Why was he arrested? It seems there is something they want him to do but he will only do what the Kiharu people want,” she said. Nyoro praised the DPP for recognising that the arrest was political and not charging him. (Edited by V. Graham) 