Good morning, Twelve MPs have been lined up for state awards to be dished out by President Uhuru Kenyatta during this year’s Mashujaa Day. The lawmakers and three other parliamentary staffers, if found fit, will be feted with Chief of the Order of the Burning Spear (CBS) awards. They are MPs Kanini Kega (Kieni), Kareke Mbiuki (Maara), Rachael Nyamai (Kitui South), Joseph Limo (Kipkelion East), Sofia Noor (Ijara), and Junet Mohammed (Suna East). Here are the other stories making headlines in the Star this morning. Murdered Dutch tycoon Tob Cohen had designated his brother and sister as the managers of his multimillion-shilling estate in Nairobi upon his death. The late golf marketer had specified that the two take charge of the villa estimated at Sh400 million in Kitisuru, a residential suburb of Nairobi. Dutch newspaper Algemeen Dagblad (AD) quotes Cohen’s sister Gabrie van Straten saying they have planned to take possession of the villa of their murdered brother in the coming week. The IEBC dispute resolution committee is on Monday expected to give its verdict on whether football star Macdonald Mariga will run in the upcoming Kibra by-election. Mariga petitioned the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission after Kibra returning officer Beatrice Muli invalidated his nomination on grounds that his name was missing from the register of voters. The Kenya Prisons Service is going cashless in efforts to salvage its troubled business wing and seal loopholes unscrupulous staff use to siphon funds. This is among steps the Correctional Services department is taking in its drastic turnaround plan to make prison businesses viable. Farm and industry managers at the country’s correctional institutions have signed commitments to ensure their enterprises are profitable. Twelve MPs have been lined up for state awards to be dished out by President Uhuru Kenyatta during this year’s Mashujaa Day. The lawmakers and three other parliamentary staffers, if found fit, will be feted with Chief of the Order of the Burning Spear (CBS) awards. They are MPs Kanini Kega (Kieni), Kareke Mbiuki (Maara), Rachael Nyamai (Kitui South), Joseph Limo (Kipkelion East), Sofia Noor (Ijara), and Junet Mohammed (Suna East). Kenyans have become cautious of the food they consume due to numerous cases of food poisoning, linkage with cancer-causing organisms and general safety of food. This concern led us to investigate the safety of a product that has proliferated with the advent of new distribution channels: milk. We scrutinised milk sold in ATMs and the packaged milk. Our findings gave no reprieve to worried consumers. They established that most of the milk being sold in supermarkets and ATM machines is contaminated.