At least 5,000 residents of Murang’a and Kiambu counties are set to settle on Del Monte Kenya's land. This resettlement follows last week’s decision by the High Court to throw out the fruit processing company’s application to compel the Murang’a county government to renew its lease. The firm then said it was open for dialogue. The beneficiaries represented by Kandara Residents Association patron P.M.G. Kamau are expected to settle on 70 per cent of the land that will be released by the firm while 30 per cent will go to Murang'a and Kiambu counties. Del Monte owns approximately 50,000 acres under a leasehold pact renewable every 99 years. Members of the association and the two county governments had separately gone to court to push the firm to surrender part of the land whose lease was due for renewal. The parties finally agreed to settle the matter out of court. Kamau said a majority of the beneficiaries are people whose families suffered historical injustices during the colonial era when colonialists converted their land to large-scale sisal farming before turning to pineapple growing. “A good number of them are squatters from Gachagi, Umoja and Madharau villages in Thika while the rest are from Kandara subcounty in Murang’a. God has heard our prayers, and we will finally settle on the land which is rightfully ours,” Kamau said when he met members in Thika on Saturday. Kamau said the beneficiaries will be settled on approximately five acres. He said that besides the residential and agricultural portions that will be sub-divided to members, there will be an industrial park, cottage industries, greenhouses and land to construct a mega city. "There are investors, both local and foreign, as well as financiers who have already shown interest in forming partnerships with beneficiaries. Some 2,000 acres will be put into extensive agricultural use where residents will grow enough food for local consumption and for export," he said. The representative said the Kandara Inter-City will be constructed on the farm along the Nairobi-Nyeri highway. “We have agreed that we will work together with company and the two county governments to fast-track this matter. Each party will have their own surveyors who will work with the Director of Surveys to establish the land that will be released to all parties,” Kamau said. He commended the national government through the Parliamentary Committee for Lands chaired by Kitui South MP Rachael Nyamai for intervening in the matter. “We also appreciate the role played by Del Monte management in reaching an amicable solution," he said. His team is currently mapping out the areas in conjunction with the government and the company, Kamau said. Residents who spoke after the meeting said that they have finally seen a light at the end of the tunnel and that their pursuit and waiting for the release of the land for decades will come to an end. “I was born, raised and got married at the farm now owned by the company. My parents died and were buried on the farm. That land is where I called home and I have waited for more than 50 years to go back there. I am happy that God has answered our prayers,” Milkah Machuki, 78, said. Edited by R.Wamochie