She was expected to confirm to court allegations that her colleague was beaten up and her teeth knocked off. However, when a prosecution witness only identified as Mary got to the dock and took an oath, she had a change of heart. The charge sheet says Gladys Anita assaulted and caused bodily harm to Veronica Wanjiru on January 18 at Cottolengo area of Hardy Langata division within Nairobi county. The prosecution called a number of witnesses among them Mary who gave a contradicting account from what had been claimed. Mary testified before a Kibera magistrate that even before the incident of January 18, Wanjiru had lost the front teeth which she claims were lost during the scuffle. “Long before the January 18 incident Wanjiru once called me to her house. On arrival, I found her lying on the bed with a swollen mouth and legs. She said that she had fallen in the bathroom while taking a shower,” Mary told the court. Mary said that is when Wanjiru lost her teeth. The witness also told the court that Wanjiru and Gladys have had a long-standing grudge and she had even separated them from a physical fight before. She alleged that Wanjiru had been warning her not to appear in court as a witness. "I want the court to caution her because she has been sending people to stop me from appearing in court as a witness," Mary told the magistrate. Another witness, Grace Wachira also testified in the case. Wachira said at around 8am of January 18, a woman identified as Gladys and her colleagues reported to work at Cottolengo Sisters' headquarters as usual. "I work as a cleaner and on that day I was cleaning the sisters' offices while Gladys and her colleagues were in the gardens," Wachira told the court. An hour later Wachira reported having heard Veronica crying in the sisters' office claiming that Wanjiru had beat her up making her lose her two front teeth. The following day, Wachira and Gladys were called in by the presiding Catholic priest to explain the cause of the fight and have the two return to work. Wanjiru, however, reported the matter at the Langata Police Station. In her defence, Gladys said that the complainant is the chairperson in their Tujijenge group and she informed her that she was not qualified to get any share on the money they had contributed in the camp because she had applied for a loan and not returned the interest. “She gave me the notice and she didn't give other members contrary to our rules,” Gladys claimed. Senior resident magistrate Boaz Ombewa ordered a medical report on the injuries inflicted on Wanjiru be presented before the court on November 21.