United States International University (USIU) teams are battling relegation but coach Cliff Owuor remains optimistic they will survive the drop. Owuor said they will battle until the last match as they seek to keep their Premier League next season. The men’s team lost 56-50 to Kenya College of Accountancy (KCA) University as John Ooko made 18 points and Kevin Yasen added  12 for the winners. The ladies side, who are two-time champions, fell 70-63 to Equity Bank. Annerose Mandela score 19 and Betty Kananu hit 13 for the bankers. Both teams had two matches each over the weekend. The Tigers lost all their matches while the Flames won one. “Our positions in the league are not good but we have a chance to overturn things in our coming matches,” observed Owuor. He said: “We will have to do a lot more if my two teams are to survive. The ladies showed good progress and there is light at the end of the tunnel but there is still a lot of work to be done with the men.” KCA coach Charles Goro said: “I had only eight players in this game but we were never under pressure.” In their second match of the weekend, Equity Bank went down 70-56 against champions Kenya Ports Authority (KPA), who are top of the standings. Keegan Oyugi registered 15 points for the porters who got off to a bright 38-18 advantage at the break. Titus Musembi led the bankers with 17. “We were timid from the first whistle. We let them score easily while we struggled to break their defence. In the last half we played better but it was too late,” noted  bankers tactician Carey Oketch. Zetech University recovered from their shock loss to University of Nairobi the previous day to pip Kenyatta University Oryx 43-40 with Terry Oloo grabbing 10. “KU gave us a good challenge. We played well and the result shows our dream of a top five finish is still very much on .” said coach Maurice Obilo Eagle Wings also bounced back from a USIU stunner to turn the tables on Africa Nazarene University (ANU) 68-39. Sandra Ekasimba hit 22 points. “My girls made me proud. I am especially happy with Ekasimba’s performance. Hope they maintain the focus as we head to Mombasa this weekend,” beamed Evalyne Kedogo.