The government is prepared for the transition to Grade 4 of the Competency-Based Curriculum in January next year, Education CS George Magoha has said. In line with the government’s 100 per cent transition policy, all the current Grade 3 learners are expected to join Grade 4. Magoha said that the national Grade 3 assessment has been going on smoothly in most schools. “This is the reason we have allowed individual class teachers to conduct the exercise in their natural environments during the whole of this term,” Magoha said in a statement read on his behalf by Water CS Simon Chelugui. Magoha has asked teachers to desist from carrying out the Grade 3 assessment in an environment depicting a national examination Chelugui was in Kisumu on Monday to launch the standards and guidelines of water, sanitation and hygiene infrastructure in pre-primary and primary schools. Magoha said the government has banned any public events within school compounds this term to allow them adequately prepare for their national examination. He urged all the schools to ensure they do not fall prey to unscrupulous people who emerge during examinations period claiming they can leak test papers. “The ministry is vigilant and will hunt down anyone keen on engaging in irregularities in the most ruthless manner,” Magoha warned. He urged schools to use the document to support proper planning, design, construction and management of water supply, sanitation and hygiene facilities. The CS said the document will be used as a technical model in the design construction and management of school sanitation facilities. He said the improvement of sanitation facilities in schools should complement hygiene education programmes for the best impact. “This can be organised through co-curricular activities such as sports, health club, hygiene club, drama and music which are mostly learners centred,” Magoha said. Magoha emphasized on the provision of proper sanitation for school girls who are often affected during the menses if the school environment is not hygienic. Unicef Country Representative Maniza Zaman said poor sanitation can lead to repeated episodes of diarrhoea and worm infections. These conditions have been associated with stunting, a form of under-nutrition, she said. A safe and healthy learning environment is fundamental to achieve quality and inclusive education outcomes, Zaman said. Zaman said the physical environment and cleanliness of a school facility can significantly affect the health and well-being of children. She said about 230,000 children in 250 schools in eight counties have benefited from the water and sanitation programme over the past seven years. 