A court has allowed the exchange of more than Sh408,000 in old notes recovered from a man accused of the attempted murder of a former senior Garissa official. Trial magistrate Francis Andayi directed the investigating officer to exchange the old notes with the new ones before the September 30 demonetisation of Sh1,000 notes. The money is an exhibit in the attempted murder case against Mohamud Hussein Aden. Assistant DPP Catherine Mwaniki had applied for the exchange of the money recovered from Aden during his arrest with the new notes. Mwaniki also requested the exchange of Sh189,000 recovered from David Mwai (now deceased) who was a prime suspect in the case. Aden and Juliet Charity Njoki have denied attempting to kill Idris Mukhtar,  a former Garissa finance officer on May 19, last year, at his Kileleshwa home in Nairobi. The two also have denied conspiring to kill lawyer Charles Njiru Kanjama between July 1 and September 27, last year, in Nairobi. Mwaniki made the application after the first witness, a military intelligence officer, testified. His name has been withheld for personal security. The witness told the court that he knew Aden as a friend before the shooting incident. He said at one point, the suspect called him and asked him to drive him and a woman known as Njoki to South C shopping centre. He said Aden told him he wanted to trace a person who had conned him of some money. He advised Aden that the best way was to report the matter to the police. The witness said he was surprised to learn from media the arrest of Aden and Njoki in connection with the shooting of one Idris. He said after the incident, he ignored Aden's calls. Aden and Njoki are accused that jointly with others, not before the court, of attempting to kill Mukhtar by shooting and injuring him at White Star Restaurant along Kandara Road in Kileleshwa. The former finance official was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit of a Nairobi hospital before he was transferred to India. Suspect Mwai died in Parklands police station cells where he was being interrogated. The 27-year-old man is said to have committed suicide after recording a confession. During investigations, police arrested several people among them Garissa Governor Ali Korane and his brother after they were mentioned by witnesses as having hired the hit squad. They were later released against the wishes of the victim's family.  The family maintained that they were involved in the plot to kill their son after he questioned Korane's academic papers. Korane has denied any involvement in the attempted murder. According to the investigators, Mwai confessed that the initial plan was to kidnap and poison Mukhtar "but he took too long so he was ordered to shoot to kill". It was said that plans changed after Mwai failed to abduct and inject the former county official with hydrogen peroxide. Police said they were told the chemical induces a heart attack or a stroke. Mwai told the investigators how he was approached by a former schoolmate –Njoki –  who told him her friend wanted a man killed. The pay was to be Sh500,000. He is said to have told police that Njoki's friend had been conned out of Sh500,000 and his sister Sh6 million by the same person. The hunt for Mukhtar lasted a month, the court heard. Mwai is also said to have produced a photograph of the target. Police, after investigations, said the photo was that of Mukhtar. It was also said that Mwai was furnished with details of Mukhtar's vehicle for easy tracking. Mwai is said to have received Sh50,000 advance payment for the assassination. Edited by R.Wamochie