Drought is worsening in seven counties and more and more children are at risk of malnutrition, the National Drought Management Authority has said. The September drought status report released on Monday/yesterday also shows the situation is stabilising in 12 other counties. The report says the drought situation has worsened in Mandera, Garissa, Kajiado, Kwale, Isiolo, Makueni, and Kitui counties. The situation has improved in Samburu, Nyeri (Kieni), Lamu and Baringo counties. Meru North, Narok, Taita Taveta, Turkana, West Pokot, Tana River, Laikipia, Embu (Mbeere), Kilifi, Wajir, Marsabit and Tharaka Nithi Counties, have recorded a stable trend, the report read. The bulletin showed that August was generally a dry month, particularly in Marsabit, Garissa, Mandera, Wajir, Tana River, Tharaka, Kitui, Makueni and Kajiado counties. “Sunny and dry weather experienced in most ASAL areas led to faster reduction in water availability for both livestock and domestic use and continued to hurt crop performance,” the report read. The forecast for September indicates that nearly all arid and semi-arid counties are expected to be sunny and dry for most of the month. Hotter than normal temperatures in Septemberresjult in high evaporation rates, leading to faster than normal drying up of pasture and open water sources. According to the 21-25 September forecast by the Kenya Meteorological Department, most regions will have sunny intervals during the day and partly cloudy skies at night. Rainfall is expected in Siaya, Kisumu, Homa Bay, Migori, Kisii, Nyamira, Trans Nzoia, Baringo, Uasin Gishu, Elgeyo-Marakwet, Nandi, Nakuru, Narok, Kericho, Bomet, Kakamega, Vihiga, Bungoma and Busia counties. Some parts of Eastern region will experience strong winds of more than 25 knots,” Stella Aura, the director of KMD, said. The National Drought Management Authority said storage and water sources are expected to become depleted due to the poor 2018 short rains. “Harvesting of long-rains crops in marginal agricultural areas has been completed in most counties and the yields are poor. Most poor households have minimal food stocks from the harvest that are only likely to last through September,” NDMA said. The authority recommended intensified preparation for drought response as drought will persist in September. (Edited by V. Graham)