Residents of Nairobi's South B have requested that Kipiti Cresent Road be renamed after football legend Joe Kadenge. Majority Whip Waithera Chege said on Thursday that renaming the road after Kadenge would be the best tribute the county could give him. She sill introduce a motion. Since  Independence the country has named and rename droads to honour heroes and heroines who have contributed immensely to the development of the republic," she said. Kadenge died in July at age 84. He lived in Mariakani Estate, in South B ward. The Constitution gives counties functions of handling transport including county roads, street lighting, public transport traffic and parking. Chege, who is South B MCA, said renaming roads and public places after heroes and heroines bestows honour and shows gratitude. "There are heroines and heroes who have not had similar honours bestowed upon them despite their immense contributions to this country. Road names have been changed before to reflect names and places of significance," she said. "Kadenge was regarded as the finest footballer to ever grace the country's football scene as evident in his valiant efforts in guiding Harambee Stars to win the inaugural East and Central Africa Challenge Cup." After his death, the Senate proposed that Nyayo National Stadium be renamed after him. the motion will be debated by MCAs. A number of Nairobi roads and streets have been named after prominent Kenyans. Muindi Mbingu Street was formerly known as Stewart Street but was renamed in honour of Ukambani freedom fighter Samuel Muindi Mbingu. Mbingu led a protest from Machakos to Nairobi with residents unhappy with a colonial policy requiring that Africans to de-stock cattle by seizing the cattle, taking away their wealth. Wabera Street was named after the first African Isiolo District Commissioner, Daudi Dabasso Wabera. He was gunned down protecting Kenyan territory against Somalis who wanted to take over Northern Kenya from Isiolo upwards. Mama Ngina Street was known as Queens Way during the colonial era but named after Kenya's first First Lady, the mother of President Uhuru Kenyatta. Sadler Street was renamed Koinange Street, Lord Delamare Avenue renamed Kenyatta Avenue, Government Avenue to Moi Avenue and Forest Raod to Prof Wangari Maathai Road. Kimathi street was known as HardingStreet but renamed after Field Marshall Dedan Kimathi, as a way of honouring his role in the Mau Mau war. Ronald Ngala Street was previously known as Duke Street after the British noblemen of the highest hereditary rank. After Kenya attained Independence, the road was renamed after Ronald Ngala, a member of the Kenya African Democratic Union (Kadu) during first President  Jomo Kenyatta’s government. Mfangano Street, originally known as Jivanjee Avenue, was named after Alibhai Mula Jivanjee, an Asian- born citizen. Jivanjee gave the city  Jivanjee Gardens, one of the coolest parks for resting. Edited by R.Wamochie