Talks to end health workers strike in Taita Taveta ended prematurely after the parties failed to agree on key issues. The strike, on its sixth day yesterday, has paralysed services in the county’s public health facilities. The workers went on strike last week,  protesting delayed salaries. All public health facilities remained closed, forcing residents to seek treatment at private hospitals. The workers have vowed not to resume duties until all their grievances are met. Kenya National Union of Nurses’ branch secretary Richard Nyambu said county officials could not explain why the government failed to submit the workers' statutory deductions and loans on time. Nyambu said both Health executive and his Finance and Planning counterpart were absent. “Labour officials called us for a meeting only to find our employer missing. Only county chief officers from Finance and Health Services attended,” Nyambu told the Star after the meeting in Wundanyi. The inter-union communication officer added, “We have also protested the inclusion of the Delivery Services Unit officials. We will not take part in any negotiation meeting with them since they have no role in our issues." The union officials insisted that the County Public Service Board members and the legal department officials must be present in the meeting. Nyambu said all the workers shall hold a mammoth demonstration on Thursday should they fail to reach an agreement with the government. Scores of patients who had been admitted to various hospitals across the county were discharged last week and asked to seek medication elsewhere. County Assembly’s Health committee chairman Frank Mmare on Wednesday confirmed that one patient died after being discharged due to the strike. Jane Mbithi, 50, succumbed to high blood pressure moments after she was prematurely discharged from Taveta Hospital. “We are just crossing fingers that we shall not lose more patients due to the standoff,” the MCA said KNUN branch organising secretary Synnette Ogolla said casual health workers had not been paid for close to a year. “Casual workers have been working for almost a year without salaries despite the County Assembly Labour Trade and Social Justice Committee giving their recommendations which have been ignored,” Ogolla said. He said many health centres lacked basic tools and hardly received pharmaceutical supplies making it difficult to offer better services. “Health workers are willing to improve services, but our efforts have terribly failed because the county government has turned a deaf ear to our demands,” he said. The workers who have walked off the job are drawn from KNUN, Kenya Medical Practitioners, Pharmaceuticals and Dentists Union (KMPDU) and Kenya County Government Workers Union and Kenya Health Professionals Society (KHPS). Others are members of Kenya National Union of Medical Laboratory Officers (KNUMLO) and Kenya National Union of Clinical Officers (KUCO). Edited by R.Wamochie