Investing in young people is the only way to ensure security in the slums such as Kibra, a candidate in the by-election has said. Democratic Party candidate Dorn Anaclet on Friday said the perception that the youth in the area are violent and causing insecurity is defective. The young people in the area have immense potential and can be resourceful if well empowered and given more opportunities, he said. The 26-year-old Economics graduate from the University of Nairobi told the Star in an interview that his strategy in developing the constituency should he clinch the seat will focus on investing in the youth. "The young people of Kibra only need opportunities to leverage on their creativity and sharp intellect to contribute substantially in the economy," he said. Anaclet said he was part of the former MP Ken Okoth's campaign team in 2013 that formulated his youth-centred strategy. This saw the MP invest in young people's education by building schools and giving bursaries. "Technical empowerment will be my main area of focus just as the late Okoth did," the youngest candidate in the race said. The candidate said he chose to try his luck on the ticket of the party founded by retired President Mwai Kibaki because the outfit easily resonates with diverse groups of people in the constituency. On his campaign strategy, Anaclet said he prefers door-to-door outreach, as this affords him time to bond with his electors "as well as explain what exactly I want to do for them." "Talking to the people face-to-face is crucial to me because I also appeal to them to fund my campaign," he said, adding that the masses are the sponsors of his campaign. He also asserted that his roots in the slum city coupled with his dynamic connection with the youth will favour him in the polls. The by-election is slated for November 7. Anaclet was unveiled as the party's candidate in the mini-polls at a function presided over by party leader Joseph Munyao and his deputy Nyakera Irungu. “I will be on the ballot and I can assure you that I will win the seat based on my deep roots in the constituency,” Mr Anaclet told the party’s National Executive Committee as he received the outfit's nomination certificate at the United Kenya Club in Nairobi early this month. The race to replace the former MP Okoth has attracted over twenty candidates and the leading lights are said to be Bernard (Imran) Okoth of ODM, McDonald Mariga (Jubilee) and Eliud Owalo (ANC). The party's director of nominations D.K Munene told the Star during the interview that the party nominated Anaclet as a show of confidence in the young people. "We are confident that our nominee is smart and dynamic enough to fill in and even surpass the shoes of the late Okoth," he said.