Good morning, When they dropped their children off at Precious Talent School in Dagoretti South on Monday morning, the last thing parents expected was that eight precious children would never come home. And at least 64  pupils would be injured when the flimsy primary school collapsed. Sixty were discharged in the afternoon from Kenyatta National Hospital. Some students were admitted elsewhere. Good morning, "Even as we stand here, many of the ones responsible for Tob's death here in sheepskin, believe you me, your days are also numbered." These were the ominous words of Sarah Wairimu, the widow of the slain Dutchman Tob Cohen during his burial on Tuesday at the Jewish Cemetery in Nairobi. Wearing black trousers, a flowered blouse, she clutched a bouquet of red and yellow roses close to her chest. The flowers were handed to her by her lawyer Philip Murgor. Here are the other stories making headlines in the Star this morning. The pastor mother of Marianne Kitany on Tuesday testified to prove to the court that her daughter was married to Meru Senator Mithika Linturi. Rhoda Chepkoech reminisced about the thoughtful gestures of her 'son-in-law' when bought her a car as a gift and contributed Sh1 million for her church fundraiser. She removed the car keys from her pocket, dangled them and thanked Linturi for giving her the car that she says helped her spread the gospel of Jesus Christ. Chepkoech said that the car was outside the court and the court could go to see it, adding that she has been driving it since 2016. On February 13, Sister Leonida Katunge, who holds a doctorate in theology from the University of St Anselm in Italy, was admitted to the bar as an advocate of the High Court of Kenya and recognised for academic excellence by Chief Justice David Maraga. Frustrated by the government’s reluctance to provide legal property documentation to the Sisters of St Joseph of Mombasa’s land, Katunge decided to study law. Katunge, 40, originally wanted to study canon law, but saw an opportunity to study civil law to help many religious men and women, including clergy, in Kenya to protect their properties and to offer them legal advice. She registered to study law at the Catholic University of Eastern Africa (CUEA), where she was lecturing on sacred liturgy, and later proceeded to Kenya School of Law, upon returning from Italy in 2013. Opposition Chief Raila Odinga's allies were yesterday cautious in their reaction to reports that the handshake team may not recommend a referendum after all. The leaders adopted a wait-and-see stand on the much-awaited Building Bridges Initiative report, amid signs of growing jitters within Raila's camp. Ironically, the ODM leader's fiery lieutenants were tight-lipped on the potential political implications of a BBI report without a proposal for a referendum. A woman and her daughter were murdered after assailants strangled them using a sisal rope in Golden Gate area, South B Nairobi. Judith Mwai (73) and Catherine Mwai (47) were discovered by the deceased sister who went to visit them. According to a police report, the two were found strangled on Monday evening in their separate bedrooms. The decision by Boeing to pay the families of 346 people killed in two 737 MAX 8 crashes $144,500 (Sh15 million) each is not related to lawsuits against the company,  lawyers have said. Chege Njoroge, a lawyer for two Kenyan families, said the payment “has nothing to do with settlement or compensation”,  he said. “We were not engaged,” Njoroge said.