Igembe North MP Maoka Maore has been stripped of the mandate of discussing a bill to determine the amount of money to be allocated to the CDF kitty. The chairman of the Select Committee on NG-CDF was called out amid accusations he has ‘sat on the bill’ for long – having taken five months with the legislation. Leader of Minority John Mbadi raised the matter, stating that the bill, which stipulates that constituencies will receive Sh136 million, has delayed. “There is a fundamental question of how long committees should hold a bill after the first reading. It is regrettable that a bill such as this has been with the committee since April,” he said. “I am not so sure that the committee is holding this because there is so much that is stopping them from working on the same,” the Suba South MP said. He argued that even if the Maore team was uncomfortable with the proposed legislation or its provisions, they have a responsibility to bring a report on those recommendations. “The committees cannot be allowed to hold bills as long as they wish. It is coming out clearly that my friend Maoka Maore is not leading this committee effectively.” Mbadi held that the current CDF committee is the worst in the history of the constituency cash committees, adding that the flaw could be due to bad leadership. After hearing the concerns, Speaker Justin Muturi ruled that the Finance Committee, chaired by Joseph Limo, takes up the CDF Bill. “It is clear to me that the CDF committee is the least busy in terms of processing bills. Let the Committee on Finance and Planning take up the matter to enable the House debate it,” Muturi said. Majority leader Aden Duale lifted the lid on 26 bills assigned to committees but are yet to be acted upon. Among them is a protocol presented by the government and tabled in 2018. “Chairs must choose to delegate the roles to committee vice-chairpersons so that we don’t delay matters that are of great importance to Kenyans,” Duale said. “This matter is across the board. We have to call out on these chairs who are delaying private members and government bills,” the Garissa Township MP said. Muturi said it was illogical for committee chairs to find it difficult to delegate to either vice-chairpersons or members.