Former Football Kenya Federation President Sam Nyamweya has raised the red flag over alleged plans by the current football leadership to disenfranchise some areas from taking part in the national polls slated for later in the year. Nyamweya revealed that he had noticed with serious dismay a plan by the Football Kenya Federation to lockout sub-branches from participating in the forthcoming elections. “According to the Federation national office, the sub-branches will hold their elections after the Branch and national officials have been elected. I find this to be a total infringement of the rights of sub-branches to deny them the opportunity to be part of the exercise,” complained Nyamweya. In a statement that goes a long way to show that the former long-serving football administrator is mulling over taking another stab at football leadership Nyamweya said It is only logical and fair that, elections are held from Sub-branch level then to the branch and finally the national office. “The structure of FKF is pyramidal with Sub branches at the base, branches at the middle and the national office at the apex. Holding national elections without including the sub-branch officials will be totally untidy and unethical. It is  tantamount to climbing a tree from the middle and sounds like the fairy tales of Abunuwasi.” he scoffed Nyamweya added that he will stand in solidarity with the sub-branches as they represent the primary level of football management and development. “It is at the sub-branch level that raw talent is identified, tapped and developed. It is sad that the current Federation has decided to ignore the role the sub-branches play in football development. I urge all the sub-branch officials to stand out now and fight for their basic fundamental right to be part of the coming elections.” he reiterated The former football supremo concluded by disparaging the current Federation has as the one that killed football at the national level. “ Our league does not have any sponsors, the second tier league has to pay referees for matches to be played. With the foregoing, our future in football is bleak if not dear. It is time we stood with the sub-branches.” he finished The announcement of the date of the FKF elections in which current president Nick Mwendwa will be seeking another four year term will be made next month