The Infrastructure department cannot account for Sh55 billion it spent on various construction projects in the financial year 2016-17. The entity responsible for road and railway construction projects in the country had been flagged for an unexplained variance of Sh113 billion between its Ifmis and cashbook postings. Infrastructure PS Paul Maringa on Tuesday told the Public Accounts Committee, during a review of the audited reports, that they have traced Sh58 billion of the amount. But the committee chaired by Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi said the amounts are significant and hence, those responsible must be held to account. “Heads will have to roll over this matter. This issue requires investigations. The minister should come and answer this.” The lawmakers said they would summon Transport Cabinet Secretary James Macharia to shed more light on the adverse audit query. “We are alarmed that these queries have not been addressed since 2017. Let Macharia come and tell us what he has done to recover the untraced amounts,” Wandayi said, adding that concerned individual accountants must also be held responsible. This was after Maringa pleaded with them that he is new in the department and has initiated a cleanup to clear the pending audit queries. “What we are reporting is that the manual cashbook is posted correctly. It is in Ifmis where the amounts have not been posted,” Maringa said. The PS said the department is working with its Project Finance Management committee to follow up the accounts. Suna West MP Peter Masara sought answers on what the National Treasury has done about the variance. “Now that another financial year has ended, why is the department still being funded? How come the manual process is working better than Ifmis? If it took you 24 months to reconcile the Sh58 billion, how much can we be assured you will conclude this faster?” the lawmaker asked. Rarieda MP Otiende Amolo said the "huge" variance of Sh55 million can be concluded as stolen. Tongaren MP Eseli Simiyu asked, “Is it that the department is short of staff or is it a deliberate move to hide some malpractices?” John Mosonik was the principal secretary during the financial year under review. Edited by R.Wamochie