Water and Sanitation CS Simon Chelugui has praised Busia, Siaya and Kitui counties for their efforts to be open-defaecation free. Chelugui challenged the other 44 counties to follow suit to reduce cases of cholera and diarrhoea outbreaks. The CS said counties need to invest more in water and sanitation programmes by working closely with development partners. He spoke in Kisumu during the launch of the standards and guidelines for school water sanitation and hygiene infrastructure for pre-primary and primary schools. Chelugui said the guidelines have been proven to improve health, enhance girls’ attendance and retention, boost educational achievement, promote gender equity, and provide inclusiveness. The CS said the provision of safe water and appropriate hygiene and sanitation facilities within schools is a multi-sectoral involvement. “In the Water for Schools programme, which started in the last financial year, my ministry is committed to cover all schools that lack adequate water services,” he said. Chelugui said most such schools are in the rural areas. He urged the Ministry of Education to identify schools to benefit from the programme. The CS said the guidelines provide an important reference to support proper planning, design, construction and management of water supply, sanitation and hygiene facilities in schools. The publication, he said, has been anchored in the existing technical guidelines from the ministries of Health, Education and Water. It is useful for the planning, design, construction and management of basic water supply, sanitation and hygiene facilities in pre-primary and primary schools. He said it borrowed on the existing infrastructure design principles to provide a one-stop reference platform for school water sanitation and hygiene education. This, he said, is aimed at optimum utilisation of space and resources to provide appropriate facilities suited to the needs of the school children. “It proposes best practices to implementers of sanitation and water supply facilities in schools,” Chelugui said. He said the manual will contribute towards ensuring that all school wash facilities are built to a harmonised set of minimum standards that offer low cost. They should also be replicable but structurally sound designs adapted to gender, age, disability, and local cultural needs.