The government this week begins streamlining skills students ought to acquire in agriculture courses in universities and colleges before they graduate. Despite agriculture being the backbone of the economy, there is no proper guidance on what students need to achieve before they are awarded the qualification papers. This complicates matters for graduates whose qualifications sometimes fail to be recognised by some institutions. “The country has several qualifications being offered in TVETs and universities that now need to be reviewed and revised to conform with the required standards,” a letter to university deans of agriculture, veterinary medicine and principals of colleges reads. The deans will next week meet at Egerton University for a three-day conference. They are expected to come up with yardsticks to guide what learners will need to achieve before they graduate. This will give those with low qualifications such as certificate and diploma an easy time when advancing studies. Previously, colleges and universities offered the same qualifications but with different requirements. This made it hard for graduates to advance their studies in other institutions. It will be the first vital step to improving the quality of graduates and a huge leap in achieving far-reaching reforms suggested by Education CS George Magoha in March. Currently, agricultural courses are taught in 40 public and private universities. They are offered in the form of Agribusiness, Animal Health, Agricultural Economics, Agricultural Biotechnology, Agroforestry, Aquatic Science, Crop Science, Farm Management, Food Science and Technology, and Nutrition. Others are Horticulture, Leather Technology, Livestock Production, Marine Science, Nutraceutical Science, and Veterinary Medicine and Surgery. The Kenya National Qualification Framework Authority says the process will help in making agricultural training international. “We’ve also noted that students face numerous challenges when progressing from lower levels to higher levels of learning in the agricultural and animal health sector,” KNQFA director Juma Mukhwana said on Sunday. Reforms proposed by Magoha have, however, yet to take effect as the government awaits recommendations from the regulator — the Commission for University Education. The CS recommended that universities shed off some programmes as one of the measures to address the duplication menace and turn to specialisation. This was to be done in 90 days and the mantle to conduct the reforms given to CUE. Sources indicate that CUE has yet to give the way forward on how the institutions will clean up the mess. The regulator’s report on the best way to approach reforms was due for submission to the CS on July 31. The public universities will, in the next few months, be required to implement the recommendations. This will lead to job losses and reduced university enrolment. Edited by R.Wamochie