The inclusion of three Bandari players in the recent international friendly match pitting Harambee Stars and Uganda will give the club the much sought after impetus to accost Union Sportive de Ben Guerdane of Tunisia this weekend. Bandari will host the North Africans in a Caf Confederations Cup first-round match at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani and the club is looking to build on the experience gained by the trio of Nicholas Mejja, Collins Agade and Brian Otieno to win the duel. Despite being their first time in the national team, Agade clocked almost 45 minutes on the pitch while Mejja came in the later stages of the second half in a match which saw Stars rally from a goal down to settle for a 1-1 draw. Otieno, on the other hand, was an unused substitute, thanks to the competition from the triumvirate of Joash Onyango, Mike Kibwage and Johnstone Omurwa. According to Bandari's team manager Wilson Oburu, the three were exposed to arguably the best training for the days they were attached to the national team which will go a long in their quest to floor the visitors. “Having three players in the national team shows that we have quality and the right calibre of players to beat the Tunisian side. They trained with the team and I believe this is an advantage to us ahead of the match. Two out of three earned playing time where they came up against good players from Uganda and I hope if we build on them and team spirit we will reap positive results.” Oburu, who prior to his elevation to the team manager role, served as the club's first-choice goalkeeper, challenged the playing unit to avoid conceding at home. Bandari have scored a goal in their last four competitive matches but Oburu believes with discipline at the rear and ferocity upfront, the dockers will carry a health advantage to the return leg. “We know the secret of winning continental matches. We have to win by a big margin and avoid conceding by all means which we have already shared with the players.” The former Kenyan international in the meantime revealed that the duo of Abdallah Hassan and Yema Mwama will face a late fitness test after picking knocks in their last matches. Hassan was stretchered off during their league opener against Mathare United while Mwama incurred an injury in Sudan against Al Ahly Shendi. “The two have recovered well but I can not confirm if they will start this weekend. The medical team is still assessing them and I hope they will be cleared for the match.” Bandari who will be forced to use the Kasarani Stadium due to lack of a Caf accredited venue in Coast was set to arrive in Nairobi yesterday but rescheduled their itinerary.