THUNDER host national champions Kenya Ports Authority in an epic Premier League encounter at Nyayo Stadium gymnasium today. High-riding Thunder are second in the standings on 38 points having lost two games while the porters lie in the third place with 34 and are on four losses. Ulinzi Warriors are top with 39 points from 20 matches. The three giants are guaranteed a top-three finish with the soldiers on one loss, highly favoured to top it. Thunder, who will still have to play Ulinzi in a few days time are upbeat about their chances. Win or lose, the second spot remains their best bet. “We will have to be cautious. We need a win and even though it will not take us to the top of them table, it will give us a huge psychological edge going into the playoffs,” said coach Collins Gaya. His counterpart Sammy Kiki, who have the bulk of players based in Nairobi observed: “We had two days of training here and we are set.” Thunder have in Griffin Ligare and Faheem Juma, two of the games’ pure shooters who can turn the tie around with a flick of the hand. They will team up well with veteran Ancette Wafula, Nathan Terry and Kevin Chogo as they seek to cause havoc. But KPA, who have picked up well after a sloppy start, will bank on the teenage duo of Keegan Ogugi and Victor Odendo at the backcourt. The marauding Evans Leting and Ariel Okal will be on duty at the frontcourt in the eagerly awaited fixture that will be explosive. The other matches of the day will see Umoja travel to Kisumu to face home boys Lake-side in another fixture that on paper looks tight. KCA University play Strathmore University Blades. Tomorrow, Western Delight welcome the University of Nairobi in their last home game in Kakamega. United States International University (USIU) Flames play Africa Nazarene University in a make or break the show for both sides. Another game with a relegation bearing will see World Hope face off against USIU Tigers. Blades will return to the same venue 24 hours later to meet Equity Bank assured of a fourth finish.