Mwende Mwinzi’s appointment as Kenya’s ambassador to South Korea is in doubt after a parliamentary committee proposed that the decision granting her the job be rescinded. Parliament had approved a report by the Defence and Foreign Relations committee which stated that the nominee be appointed on condition she renounces her US citizenship. However, the Implementation committee chaired by Moitalel Ole Kenta yesterday tabled a report recommending that the House rescinds the decision. The committee recommended that the approval made on June 6 be expunged from the report by their Defence and Foreign Relations counterparts. Kenta’s team has also ordered an audit of all serving ambassadors and high commissioners to ascertain whether any of them holds dual citizenship. Foreign Affairs Cabinet Secretary Monica Juma will be expected to submit the findings of the process to Parliament within 60 days of adopting the report. The Implementation committee report is yet to be debated and approved by Parliament amid calls that the House considers reviewing laws regarding dual citizenship. “Review the existing legislation to expressly provide for ambassadors and high commissioners as state officers,” Kenta said in his report. Even so, no ambassador as approved has taken up their appointment and reported to their respective duty missions. They have, however, been trained and are awaiting ‘no objection’ reports – if any, from the receiving countries. Mwende filed a petition at the High Court contesting the National Assembly’s recommendation that she renounces her US citizenship before taking up the Korea envoy job. She avers that the decision was unconstitutional since an ambassador is not a state officer as provided for in Article 60 of the Constitution. The nominee further argues that she is exempted by virtue of the Article 78 of the Constitution as she was born in the US and as such cannot renounce her citizenship. “Article 78(3) (b) would only be applicable to people who opted in by applying for citizenship and renunciation would be the process of ‘opting out’,” she states in her petition. Article 78 (2) of the Constitution says that only those who renounce their citizenship of the foreign nations are allowed to hold public office. The law says that a state officer or a member of the defence forces shall not hold dual citizenship. However, clause 3 says the provision does not apply to judges and members of commissions. Also exempted are persons who have been made a citizen of another country by operation of that country’s law, without the ability to opt out. She further argues that only the offices of the president, deputy president, cabinet secretary, MPs, judges and magistrates, members of a commission are defined in law. MCAs, governors, CECs, Attorney General, Secretary to the Cabinet, PSs, KDF boss, NIS chief, IG, and deputy inspectors general of the police are part of the list.