With their key players away, Kenya Prisons’ and Kenya Pipeline women’s teams renew their rivalry as the sixth leg of the Kenya Volleyball Federation (KVF)  national League takes centre stage today at the Nanyuki Stadium in Laikipia County. The two sides alongside KCB and Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI), have most of their key players in the national team ahead of this weekend’s World Cup in Japan The one-day event will precede the County Open tournament set for this weekend at the same venue. Champions Prisons will be out to guard their unbeaten run and at the same time extend their lead on the log when they line up against second-placed Pipeline. The wardresses have six points from two matches same as their nemesis albeit having played one more match. Prisons’ assistant coach Mavisi Azenga said they are hoping to extend their good run against Prisons as their intention is to qualify for the playoffs and go all the way and defend the league title. Azenga said: “We have only played two matches and won both. As much as most of the key of our players are away in Japan, I have an equally strong side here and I’m optimistic of winning.” Prisons will be without the services of Mercy Moim, Edith Wisa, Elizabeth Wanyama, Jane Wacu and Emmaculate Chemtai.  On the other hand, Kenya Pipeline team manager Kassuja Onyonyi said they will be going for a win. “We came on Wednesday well ahead of time to acclimatize and the players are in good mood ahead of the match. Let us just wait and see how the match will go,” said Onyonyi. Pipeline are without captain Triza Atuka, hard-hitting Sharon Chepchumba, Jannet Wanja and Agripina Kundu. In other women’s matches, KCB, who will make do without the services of Leonida Kasaya, Violet Makuto, Lorine Chebet and Noel Murambi play Kenya Defence Forces before they take on Bungoma County. Bungoma will the play DCI, who are without Carolyne Sirengo in their second match before KDF cross swords with Kenya Army. In the men’s fixtures, champions General Service Unit have two matches against KDF and Prisons Mombasa as they seek to extend their unbeaten run. Fixtures Administration Police vs Prison Kenya Bungoma County vs Vihiga County Kenya Army vs KPA Equity Bank vs Prison Nairobi Kenya Army vs Prison Mombasa Prison Nairobi vs KPA Equity Bank vs KDF Kenya Army vs AP Kenya Prison Kenya vs KDF Prison Western vs Vihiga County