The US Ambassador to Kenya Kyle McCarter found himself in exchange of twitter words with KOT after condemning corruption in Kenya. Carter had on his twitter handle said the government must be bold and go for the big fish to win corruption war. The Ambassador twitted after attending an integrity walk organised by the Transparency International, Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission and the Judiciary. "Stood with courageous friends #TIKenya vs Thievery that is depriving the wananchi of the deserved prosperity of the big 4. We must say NO to thievery. @USAMarafiki is boldly engaging to defeat this cancer of Thievery," Carter wrote on his wall. He added, " The big fish must be caught". This however did not go well with a section of his followers who tasked him to explain what the US government had done towards the corruption war. While some hit back at him claiming he was publicly condemning corruption but secretly dinning with them, others told him winning corruption war in the country was next to impossibility. "If the thievery is not stopped at the top there, then the battle will be all in vain..," one user said. Another one said, "You write thievery and big four in the same sentence, don't you know the big four is being spearheaded by the thieves themselves pretending to be the saviors of the sycophantic people who believes anything a political office holder says is the gospel truth". But Carter in his response said, "You are missing the important point here. Don’t let your politics blind you from the fact that the price of the big 4 equals the cost of thievery at Sh800 billion". The User by name Rambo Kanambo hit back telling the Ambassador even if Kenya's leadership was given that Sh800 billion, they will bring in their friends to manage the projects that will see half of the same amount disappear into thin air. He said the same looters would use the same money to look for best lawyers and buy themselves justice. Another user @wakahonyo asked Carter to explain what happened after he dinned with the so cvalled 'big fish'. Carter in his response said,"Pretty simple. I remember it very clearly. I ate my food and left to go back to my home. All I can say really. I don’t divulge my private conversations or strategies to fight thievery. No need to educate them". While Alex Mwaniki told Carter that big four can never work in Kenya because it was crafted to fit the interests of the current regime, Carter said, "It doesn’t matter where the big 4 comes from or who proposes it. You want to reject UH, Mfg, Housing, and food security? Most of us want this for the Kenyan people. Don’t let politics get in the way of prosperity for the people". The ambassador later cautioned his follows to comment on things that they are well informed of. While KaymanGeorge told the ambassador, "Stop these side shows and do the needful..You know very well how our leaders, from top to bottom, are corrupt but your government can't even ban their travel to USA, Carter replied saying, "You should not comment on what you do not know.". The debate went on with Josepgh Murage saying Corruption in Kenya is worse than cancer. He said the same wananchi cannot elect leaders without handouts so how do you expect to get leaders with integrity. "Corrupt businessmen finance elections so that they may put leaders to protect their interests". he said.