The county government of Tharaka Nithi has hailed the Nyandarua youth empowerment initiative. Tharaka Nithi Education, Youth, Culture and Tourism executive Sheila Kiganka and her chief officer Fridah Murungi led a delegation from their county for a benchmarking tour of youth empowerment programmes in Nyandarua county on Thursday and Friday. For the last two years, the Nyandarua government has given tools and equipment to more than 400 youth groups to help them start income-generating activities. Kiganka and Murungi said Nyandarua has led the way and they will advise their government to implement such programmes at home to give their youth a future and hope. Kiganka said through the initiative, the youth in Nyandarua have been able to expand their original ideas to venture into multiple income-generating activities. “We plan to advise our government to implement it back at home to improve the lives of our young people as most of them get lost in things that add no value to their lives. Some youths get desperate when they fail to secure employment after school," she said. Kiganka said her team decided to visit various groups to listen to the success stories. She said they were impressed by the feedback they received from the youth who have so far benefited from the Nyandarua Youth Empowerment programme. Most of them, she said, have built houses, bought land and are educating their children. Others have employed fellow youths, meaning the programme not only generates income but also helps create jobs. There are those who grow tomatoes and capsicums, while others provide pullovers to schools across the county. Another group that started with growing capsicum, has now invested in public address system and music equipment. It has formed a band, which gives them good returns. “I wish to note that Nyandarua youth are very creative. The Nyandarua government has only provided them with a stepping stone from where they have climbed to levels not even anticipated by the government," Kiganka said. She said Tharaka Nithi government should also give hope and a future to their young people. Chief officer Murungi said from the groups they visited the delegation confirmed the Nyandarua programme was good. “For example, we visited some young girls who were given salon equipment. From that business, they have opened a cyber café. To me, that is changing lives and the livelihoods of the young people. We were challenged because we had the idea but wanted to see where it has worked,” she said. 