Alexis Sanchez has broken his silence over his sorry spell at Manchester United. The Chilean, United’s highest paid player on £560,000 (Sh69.4m), only managed to scored five times in 45 games for the club since joining in 2017. Having been loaned out to Inter Milan for the season, the 30-year-old insists the reason he flopped at Old Trafford is because he wasn’t given a consistent amount of game time. “If they let me play a full game, I would win it,” Sanchez declared. “But sometimes I’d have 60 minutes and not play the next game and I didn’t know why.” And when grilled about why his international form was so far superior to his performances in club colours, Sanchez said his happiness was factor, along with the lack of minutes. “I think that I’m very happy when I play for my national team,” he reasoned. “I was happy at Manchester United too, but I’ve always said to my friends I want to play. If they let me play, I’ll do my best.” But despite his parting swipe, the former Arsenal and Barcelona forward insisted he has no regrets over his decision to pick United over City when leaving the Gunners two years ago. “No I don’t regret going there, I’m very happy I went to Manchester United, I’ve always said that. It’s the club that has won the most in England and when I was at Arsenal it was fantastic, I was happy there.” “But Manchester United were growing at the time. They were buying players to win something and I wanted to join them and win everything.” Sanchez joined the club in January of 2017 as part of a swap deal that saw Henrikh Mkhitaryan go the other way. Much was expected of the new man given his pedigree and the eye-watering wage he was picking up but he failed to impress under Jose Mourinho. The Portuguese was not alone in his assessment. When Ole Gunnar Solskjaer took the helm many believed it to be a prime opportunity for Sanchez to have a fresh start but it was the same story. Solskjaer has insisted Sanchez’s United career is far from over but as he enters the last few seasons of his career, it would take a remarkable turnaround to prove himself at Old Trafford.