 A food show has been launched in Nairobi, Kenya. The Africa Food Show (AFS) was launched on Tuesday by the global trade fair organiser and consultancy MIE Group through its Kenyan subsidiary GEX-MIE. This groundbreaking business-to-business (B2B) platform will be held on 24-26 June 2020 at the Kenyatta International Convention Center (KICC). MIE Groups also launched its AFS continental report, which gives food industry players an overview of the opportunities in the African food economy and the import and export market. The event was attended by more than 10 country commercial attachés from the largest exporting markets to Kenya as well as key dignitaries from embassies. Senior representatives of public and private African industry institutions and the international media also attended. David Wang, the founder and managing director of MIE Groups, Dubai, said, “With the launch of Africa Food Show, we add the latest specialty trade show to our expanding portfolio across the continent. In its 20-year history, MIE Groups has always been committed to developing further investment opportunities into Africa and to expand bilateral trade between the continent and the world.” MIE Groups sales and marketing vice president Fadi Kaddoura said, “As the African nations seek to expand their markets globally, the AFS will help food and beverage (F&B) producers, traders and exporters to connect with new customers and to lift their business model to the next level.” For his part, MIE Groups strategy and partnerships vice president Zahoor Ahmed said the food sector is facing further challenges in recent years in Africa and needs a new strategy and mandate to secure future FDI. Ahmed added that the industry requires new channels for innovation distribution. “Africa Food Show will present this opportunity in 2020,” he said. MIE-GEX country director Edwin Masivo said they feel honoured to be organising the upcoming AFS "here in our home market Kenya". AFS is a Pan-Africa B2B platform making  AFS a global food show for the continent. 