Kenya team Davis Cup head coach Rosemary Owino is banking on the experience gained from the recently concluded All Africa Games to gain the elusive qualification to the Africa Cup Group II. Owino, who will guide the Kenyan team for the second year running in the tournament, has her guns trained on overcoming strong opposition from the likes of Tunisia who are ranked six places higher than her side. Two top countries will be promoted to Group 2 next year depending on their performance in next week’s event. She said the team picked vital lessons from Morocco and Spain and are currently working hard to correct some of the mistakes ahead of the tournament next week at Nairobi Club. The coach will though will miss the services of Sheil Kotecha who featured in last year’s edition. However, she feels the presence experienced Ismael Changawa will inspire Kevin Cheruiyot, Ibrahim Kibet and Albert Njogu to attain the qualification “So far, the preparations are good. The previous matches we have participated in have shaped up the boys and I have been able to identify their weak points before the tournament. We have spent time in competitive environments which is an added advantage and I feel these are the best preparations we have ever had. I am confident that we are ready.” She added: “The boys have been playing consistently for a while now. While in Morocco, they were used to low altitude and now we are back to high altitude. It was important that we come back earlier for us to adjust to the weather and also the surface. As far as injuries are concerned, there is nothing major to report on. We are looking great.” She called for fans to rally behind the team. She insisted that home advantage is vital for the team’s performance as it boosts their morale. She asked players not to be complacent because of the ranking but instead urged them to give their best performance. “Last year we had a great crowd and I hope this year we will have even larger numbers. Playing at home gives us morale.”