The focus is on Kenya’s Hellen Obiri, Timothy Cheruiyot and Conseslus Kipruto tonight as curtains come down on the Diamond League meeting today in Brussels, Belgium. World 5,000m champion Obiri is targeting a third consecutive DL title in her specialty, but to achieve that, she will need to defeat two world record-holders. European champion Sifan Hassan, who broke the world mile record earlier this year, and Kenya’s Beatrice Chepkoech, the world record-holder in the steeplechase, are both in the field. Agnes Tirop, who beat Obiri over 5000m in Stockholm and over 10,000m at the Kenyan Championships, is also a big contender. German record-holder Konstanze Klosterhalfen and African 3000m record-holder Letesenbet Gidey both finished ahead of Obiri in Stanford, so may once again be a threat in Brussels. Aside from a close runner-up finish in Doha back in May, Cheruiyot has won all of his races across all distances this year. It is the 1500m where he is most dominant, going by his world-leading 3:28.77 run in Lausanne and 3:29.97 victory in Monaco. He will be seeking a third consecutive Diamond Trophy in Brussels. Ayanleh Souleiman finished second to Cheruiyot in Stockholm and Stanford, while Jakob Ingebrigtsen was runner-up behind the Kenyan in Lausanne. Both men will be in Brussels along with Uganda’s Ronald Musagala, who won in Paris and Birmingham in Cheruiyot’s absence. Marcin Lewandowski, who clocked a Polish record of 3:31.95 in Monaco, could also be a factor. Kipruto isn’t in quite the same form he was in 12 months ago when he won the Diamond League steeplechase title wearing just one shoe. He made his season debut in Paris with an 8:13.75 clocking for fifth place, then pulled out of the African Games two days later. But fortunately for the world and Olympic champion, no one else in this event currently looks unbeatable. Moroccan Soufiane El Bakkali is the world leader at 8:04.82 and won in Doha, Monaco and Paris. But the Moroccan was beaten on home soil at the recent African Games by Benjamin Kigen, who has also had some mixed results this year. The Ethiopian trio of Getnet Wale, Chala Beyo and Lamecha Girma have regularly featured near the front of the leading packs throughout this season and should once again contend for a top placing in Brussels. One week after compatriot Donavan Brazier won the men’s event in Zurich, Ajee Wilson will be hoping to complete a US 800m Diamond League double in Brussels. The 25-year-old has won in Stockholm, Monaco and Birmingham this year and clocked a season’s best of 1:57.72 to win the US title, making her the fastest in the field. Based on performances in recent weeks, USA’s Hanna Green, Jamaica’s Natoya Goule and Britain’s Lynsey Sharp look as though they will be Wilson’s toughest opponents today.