Interior CS Fred Matiang’i has warned gangs terrorising Gatundu residents that he will fight them "just like ex-Cabinet Minister John Michuki did". “I am following the footsteps of Michuki. We will not allow people to be harassed every time. And we know what is going on here,” he said. Muchuki led a major crackdown on the outlawed Mungiki sect in 2007 while he was Minister for Internal Security in the Kibaki administration. Matiang'i has ordered an immediate reorganisation of security in Kiambu county following a recent spike in crime. The move comes after a gang believed to be members of the outlawed Mungiki sect killed a villager, injured three and fled with phones, money and other valuables in President Uhuru Kenyatta’s backyard in Ichaweri village, Gatundu South. The CS spoke at Mutomo village during a security tour in Gatundu on Thursday. He was accompanied by Inspector General of police Hillary Mutyambai, Deputy Inspector General of Police Edward Mbugua, Central regional commissioner Wilfred Nyagwanga, Kiambu county commissioner Wilson Wanyanga and other top security officers in the region. Politicians including acting Governor James Nyoro, Woman Representative Gathoni Wamuchomba and Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria were present. Matiang'i expressed regret over the pain and terror residents have faced from the criminals as well as the loss of life, injuries and loss of property. He said the ministry has held comprehensive discussions with the county security heads and come up with drastic measures that will restore security. The CS said that the government will reorganise the county’s security system as well as government administration with immediate effect. “We will also reorganise police deployment in Kiambu to address security matters effectively. We will comb this region thoroughly because we don’t want to have this madness again,” Matiang'i said. He also ordered Nyagwanga to immediately advertise positions for chiefs and assistant chiefs. Recruitment will begin before October 15, he said. Matiang'i also warned local leaders against any involvement in the ongoing insecurity cases saying whoever is caught will not be spared. Nyoro said the county is ready to work with the national government to ensure residents are secure together with their businesses and properties. Wamuchomba said the state’s decision to address security matters was long overdue. The Woman rep said she has been receiving reports of at least three rape cases every month.  She noted that most victims are children, women and the elderly. MP Kuria had earlier requested for a reshuffle of the area’s security apparatus. Speaking to press dangerous Matiangi’s visit came a week after one of the gang’s victims was buried at Ichweri village. Joseph Kagua Kibe, 23, was murdered on September 9. The night before his burial, a gang broke into a home at Gichuri village in Ng’enda location and raped a woman. According to neighbours, the gang of more than eight men broke into the victim’s house using boulders. “The father begged the criminals not to harm his daughter and even gave them Sh1,000, the only money he had, but they could hear none of his pleas,” a villager told the Star in confidence. The resident added, “Speaking to the press is like signing a death warrant now because the criminals will hunt you down and kill you." At Githaruru village, the gang broke into another home where they terrorised a family for more than five hours. The criminals are said to have cooked three chickens and Ugali. After eating to their fill, they ransacked the house and left with money and other valuables. “They are armed with pistols and other crude weapons including pangas and mallets. If one fails to open the door for them, they break the walls using the mallets. The police are doing nothing about this. Only God will save us,” another resident said. Edited by R.Wamochie