The county government of Nyandarua has bought orthopaedic and eye care equipment worth Sh10 million for J M Kariuki Memorial Hospital in Ol Kalou. Nyandarua Health executive Njenga Mungai yesterday said the equipment will serve patients who suffer from bone problems and fractures during accidents a great deal. They will now be treated at Nyandarua's largest medical facility instead of being w referred to hospitals in other counties or in private medical clinics. “We have an X-ray, and CT-Scan machine at the hospital. We have an orthopaedic surgeon from Cuba. This will boost health services," Mungai said. He said in future, people living with disabilities who require artificial limbs will be fitted at the hospital. Mungai said previously, road accident victims who required major surgery were referred to Nakuru Provincial General Hospital. This was costly, he said. “It cost patients and their relatives between Sh50,000 and Sh70,000 to travel to other hospitals for treatment. They were also required to pay for ambulances.  But now they have been saved that trouble. Using their NHIF cards, patients will be able to get treatment in Nyandarua," Mungai said He said on average, JM Kariuki Hospital receives between 100 and 150 patients who require major orthopaedic surgeries. Some 30 patients are on the waiting list for artificial limbs. Mungai urged people living with disabilities to go for assessment at at the hospital and also register with the National Council for the People living with disability to benefit from available services. He said the county will facilitate the people who require wheelchairs to get them at a reasonable price. Mungai said it has been frustrating for eye experts at JM Memorial Hospital to refer patients to other hospitals before the equipment arrived. “You know what to do but you don’t have the equipment. So you are forced to refer patients. You have no choice, “he said J M Kariuki Memorial Hospital medical superintendent Joram Muraya said previously the only eye problems that were treated at the hospital were long and short sightedness .