The High Court in Eldoret has acquitted a 35-year-old man who was accused of murdering his brother in Nandi county five years ago. Noah Chumo was charged with killing Jonah Koech in Kabiyet village on September 17, 2014. On Monday, he walked to freedom after spending the five years in remand. Justice Hellen Omondi said the prosecution had failed to prove the charges. Chumo had pleaded not guilty and had been facing the trial while in remand. "I did not kill my brother and I'm satisfied with the court decision," he said after the ruling. Koech's death had sparked anger from villagers who beat up Chumo claiming he was behind it. The police arrived on time to save him from the mob. Chumo was found with a blood-stained jembe after informing his mother, Cherono, that he had found the deceased dead in his house. Investigator Daniel Bosire had told the court Chumo only reported to his mother that his brother had been killed. He showed her the blood-stained jembe. "He told his mother that if she needed to confirm, then she should go to the scene. At no time did he [the suspect] say to his mother: 'I've killed your son'," he told the court. Bosire said Chumo was treated as a suspect because he had gone to his mother’s house and asked for a jembe and a slasher. "That reason and the fact the accused was seen moving around with the blood-stained jembe made us consider him as the prime suspect in the murder." Justice Omondi said there was no sufficient evidence to prove the accused killed his brother. She said no one witnessed the incident and the accused was considered a suspect in the murder just because he is the one who broke the news and the fact that he carried the jembe found at the scene. "That does not, in any way, suggest he was the killer. Indeed, even after breaking the news to his mother, he returned with her to the scene and remained within the compound until villagers began to assault him," she said. "Even his conduct did not suggest or demonstrate the action of a man with a guilty mind.” Justice Omonid concluded that the evidence on record did not warrant placing the accused on his defence. (Edited by F'Orieny)