The government will go after rogue preachers who humiliate and exploit vulnerable women in the pursuit of their faith and spiritual guidance. Public CS Margaret Kobia said women do not deserve humiliation in public and private places as has been recently witnessed in a number of videos emerging online. “Women and girls have been subjected to emotional abuse that has curtailed their right to dignity in religious places and at work,” Kobia said. The CS was addressing hundreds of trade unionists from 16 African countries who are in Nairobi for a five-day conference on “Ending violence and harassment at workplaces.” The event is organized by the Central Organisation of Trade Unions. “I call upon all Kenyans of goodwill to condemn the criminal act of exploiting women by faking prayers for healing or wealth, we remain committed to working closely with all relevant stakeholder to prevent redress violence against women,” she said. “As such, religious teachings and affiliation provide a significant context for many women as they address experiences of victimisation.” The leaders said that discrimination includes sexual coercion, gender-based workplace discrimination, stigmatisation, social exclusion, sexual harassment and intimidation. Others are sexual exploitation and abuse as well as trafficking for forced labour and sex work within and across the borders. “It affects job performance, decreased job retention and career advancement. Victims of gender discrimination lose motivation and morale necessary to perform their jobs effectively,” Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli said. The trade union delegates said that the current laws in the country are strong enough to address discrimination and build ample ground for all employees. “Further, along with the physical and emotional suffering, the economic costs amount to the loss of money due to medical and health care services or loss of productivity because of increased absenteeism,” Kobia said. They noted that ending gender-based violence at the workplace is a goal that works to the benefit of all stakeholders. Atwoli urged those in power not to use their positions to intimidate women. “Employment should be based on qualification. Violence is not just physical but has to do with the way you handle your affairs,” Atwoli said. The CS remarks come after a number of churches in the country have been hit by  controversies.  