Murang’a MCAs have unanimously rejected the Punguza Mizigo Bill drafted by Thirdway Alliance Party leader Ekuru Aukot. They said no public participation was conducted to collect views from Kenyans on what they wanted reviewed in the constitution. The MCAs said the Bill does not give legislators a chance to amend it as it has to be passed in its totality. The representatives debated the Bill on Tuesday and took issue with the proposal to scrap all nominated positions. Nominated MCA Stephen Chege said scrapping nominated seats would deny minority groups the chance to have representation in the assemblies. “Such a move would disadvantage minority groups that cannot vote for one of their own to push for their interests,” said Chege, who is nominated to represent the youth. Nominated MCA Percy Njeri said the Bill does not address the real issues plaguing the country such as perennial post-election chaos, which costs Kenyans a great deal economically. Kagunduini MCA Peter Mburu took issue with the fact that the copy cannot be amended. He said the Bill seeks to kill the spirit of devolution by proposing the reduction of representation slots in the county assemblies. “The Bill cannot minimise the scales of county representation and claim to support devolution at the same time,” Mburu said. He said many Kenyans have not read the Bill and do not know what it entails. “It has a very appealing name but the bottom line is its contents are poisonous,” Mburu said. He added that it is the role of elected leaders to inform voters on matters concerning their interests. “I urge the originator of the Bill to form a small committee and devise ways of accounting for the funds they have been given by their sponsors,” Mburu added. Nominated MCA Caroline Wairimu said Kenyans fought to have minority groups represented in the assemblies. She said reducing the wage bill does not have to be done by decreasing the number of elective positions. Gaturi MCA Kiiru Mwangi said should the need to amend the Constitution arise it should be comprehensive to avoid disquiet. “If Ekuru had come to us before drafting the final copy, [we] would have given our recommendations and supported it,” he said. Kiiru said the proposal to have a one-term president who would serve for seven years while parliamentary elections are held after five years would thrust the country into permanent campaign mode. That, he said, would adversely affect the economy and create a political atmosphere that is hostile to business. “It is a very good idea to reduce the wage bill but it can be done in a better way. Punguza Mizigo, Ugatuzi and other referendum initiatives should be merged to come up with something that will please all Kenyans,” Kiiru said. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya