Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko is unapologetic for suspending 16 county employees. "Suspending or sacking of officials is a global governance and management practice, and I will not have any qualms at all firing, suspending or reshuffling employees a thousand times until I instill the right work culture and attitude in Nairobi to enable me realize my dream of restoring the long, lost glory of the 'Green City under the Sun'," he said in a statement on Friday. He further said that anyone opposed to changes in his administration for purposes of realising these objectives, can only be construed to work with and for the 'enemies' of the people of Nairobi, "who have continued to benefit from the corruption, impunity and confusion that was the hallmark of City Hall for many years". Sonko suspended 16 county officials following the Monday tragedy at Precious Talent school that killed eight pupils. The governor protested against an article published by the Star on Thursday which stated the county was thrown into a crisis following his move to suspend several staff. Sonko said, "Nothing can be further from the truth." He also accused People Daily newspaper of insinuating that his drastic action against county officials was a survival tactic against the ongoing investigations by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) on him. " It is completely ridiculous and lazy, to try to establish a correlation between the two. As I have stated before, I cannot comment on the matter until the investigations are concluded, and as a law-abiding citizen and an elected leader, I am obliged to respect and cooperate with Constitutional Commissions, or any other investigative agency, to ensure accountability and transparency as is demanded by the constitution," he said. Sonko said he has stayed away from his City Hall office since investigations began "to enable the investigators access to any records or information they may require". He said, "It is therefore myopic for authors of the story to read politics where they shouldn’t." The governor also claimed that a few rogue officials have held the Urban Planning Department hostage, where they have been breaking set regulations to issue approvals that are in contravention of the Physical Planning Act. "In other cases, they have certified substandard buildings as ready for occupation in exchange for bribes, without a care to the danger they have been exposing Nairobians to," Sonko said. He reiterated he remains the governor of Nairobi until the expiry of his term in 2022. Sonko added that there will not be two centres of power in Nairobi under his watch. "I will remain true and committed to my promise before I was elected, and that I will go the whole hog to do whatever it takes to place Nairobi where it ought to be on the global map," he said.