Sports journalist-cum-actor Allan Muliro, one of the pioneer actors of TV dramedy 'Inspekta Mwala', is hoping to secure another job after alcohol destroyed his life. Speaking to Word Is yesterday, he said, "I lost my job as a sports presenter on Radio Citizen's Viwanjani Michezo na Burudani show because of being alcoholic. My performance at work wasn't good and my family also fell apart." He said he was deeply affected after he was fired and regretted having lost the precious chance in his life. "My wife and I are trying to work things out and I'm happy the relationship has improved after rehab. But I regret my past and keep asking myself why am I alone, why did I do this'?" the actor said. "If given a chance, I would go back and do my best because I have the potential." Muliro said he became an alcoholic since 2013 after losing his mother until 2018, when he was taken to rehab in Thika. "I was so close to my mother and her death really affected me. I would find myself drinking so much. Life in rehab is lonely and the good thing there is you reflect on what you've lost and want for the future," he said. Speaking about 'Githeri man'  Martin Kamotho, who slipped back to alcoholism despite receiving a Head of State Commendation, Muliro said, "When you leave rehab, you need people to support you. "But if there's is no one ready to help, the chances of you going back to alcoholism are big. The support system is very important." Muliro keeps himself busy by "running and doing exercises every morning". He also participates in mentorship programmes. "I work closely with Alcohol Anonymous, where former alcoholics share their recovery journeys just to encourage one another. I also mentor youths sometimes in churches, telling them about the consequences of alcohol and how to stay away from drug abuse." The father of one thanked his colleague Abdi Munai for giving him a shoulder to lean on. "He is my best friend and we've been together for a long time. He is an adviser and a friend you can always count on. He was in 'Vioja Mahakami' and I was in 'Vitimbi' and at one point, he used to act as President Moi, while I played the role of his bodyguard," Muliro said. Inspekta Mwala (programme) recently celebrated 10 years. Muliro's message to recovering alcoholics is, "There's always hope and a new start and beginning."