A section of women leaders allied to the Inua Mama movement want nominated MP Maina Kamanda expelled from Jubilee Party for endorsing an ODM candidate in Kibra by-election. The team led by Kirinyaga Woman Representative Wangui Ngirici said the legislator had contravened the Political Parties Act by endorsing Imran Okoth instead of Jubilee’s MacDonald Mariga. Speaking on Friday at Moi Stadium in Voi, Taita Taveta county during an Inua Mama rally, Ngirici said if not tamed, the MP would influence division in the  party. “He has abused a privilege of being a nominated MP that we gave him as Jubilee Party. If he no longer holds the ideology of the ruling party then he should resign and join the opposition. His position can be given to other deserving leaders,” Ngirici said. On Thursday, Kamanda announced his support for Imran, terming him a handshake candidate. The team allied to Deputy President William Ruto further asked political leaders to desist from abusive politics as the Kibra by-election race gears up. Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa faulted Embakasi East MP Babu Owino for what she termed divisive politics. “We want to warn those campaigning in Kibra constituency stop abuse the Deputy President. You have all heard Babu Owino abusing the DP but we are wondering that no action has been taken against him,” she said. Jumwa said women leaders shall rally behind Mariga to clinch the Kibra parliamentary seat. Jumwa was expelled from ODM early this year for supporting Ruto. She defended herself, saying the handshake had made it okay for politicians to support Jubilee. Her expulsion was stopped by a tribunal. More than 35 women leaders drawn from the Inua Mama movement attended the Voi rally. Kandara MP Alice Wahome, the Inua Mama chairperson, said the movement was focused on empowering women, youth and people living with disability in the society. She denied claims that they were putting the country in campaign mood, pointing out that their unity would help more women ascend to power in the next General Election. “I know people are fighting us from all corners but we are not afraid. We shall continue empowering women to ensure that they grow their businesses,” Wahome further asked Taita Taveta Governor Granton Samboja to dialogue with Members of County Assembly in order to end the ongoing budget row. Women and youth groups across the county benefited from water tanks, motor bikes, salon equipment among other goodies. Taita Taveta Woman Representative Lydia Haika defended DP Ruto after an outcry following his last week’s visit in the county. She said those who were offended by the visit were jealous over her tremendous performance as a county leader. Haika said that only dialogue would solve the budget impasse between Governor Samboja administration and MCAs.