Kenyans interested in pursuing their education in the Russian Federation have been urged to apply for programmes that start in the 2020-21 academic year. In a press release, the Russian Embassy says applications are open for undergraduate, master’s degree and PhD courses. Also on offer are specialist and residency programmes. Details have been published on the website — http://russia.study. Those with interest are required to register online and attach scanned documents. The selection process will start next month. The announcement came after an event organised for this year’s beneficiaries. More than 300 hopefuls competed for the programmes that start in 2019-20. Of the number, 37 individuals were selected competitively. On Wednesday last week, the Embassy together with Kenya’s ministries of Foreign Affairs and Education, and the Kenyan Association of Russia and Commonwealth of Independent States Alumni conducted a pre-departure briefing for the successful applicants at Heron Portico Hotel in Nairobi. The students were briefed on the history of the friendly relations between the two countries, education plans, life in Russia and the formal procedures they will undertake before and after arriving at their universities. Charge d'Affaires Alexey Balashov said Russia is committed to human resource development in Kenya and the scholarships are part of its efforts to achieve that. For decades, Kenya has been receiving free governmental scholarships from Russia. Since the mid-1960s, thousands of Kenyans have been trained in Soviet and Russian universities to become professional doctors, engineers, teachers, civil servants, and, most recently, IT experts and software developers. Russia says it will continue strengthening its ties with Kenya. In December last year, Ambassador Dmitry Maksimychev said his country will continue helping bright young Kenyans willing to receive higher and postgraduate education. In other contributions, the country has also been offering training for Kenya Police officers in anti-terrorism to boost their capacity to tackle terror attacks, which have become a global threat. The Embassy said it is committed to making the necessary efforts to promote and facilitate further development and expansion of mutually beneficial cooperation. Those present included deputy director of State Department of University Education Paul Mungai and Russia and CIS Alumni chairman and Marsabit Principal Roads Engineer Boniface Muthoka. Also present were director of Foreign Service Academy Amb Simon Nabukwes, EALA MP Oburu Oginga, KNH Gynaecologist Maureen Owiti, KNH cardiologist Anne Mugera, IT consultant and Russia Alumni coordinator Ron Kampa, Russia Alumni secretary-general Wilfred Rono (KRA), Eng Livingston Ngoo and economist Samuel Nyandemo.