More than 200 parents have demonstrated against the closure of Eagles Emulators Academy in Mavoko, Machakos county. The parents on Tuesday took to the streets demanding the immediate reopening of the school. It has 235 pupils some of whom are borders. They accused some officials from the Education ministry of closing down the school without issuing official reasons for the closure. The Ministry of Education closed the private primary school and arrested its director on Monday, shortly after pupils reported to the institution for their third term. Paul Munyau was whisked away by the more than 10 police officers who were involved in the operation at the school located along Nairobi–Kangundo Road. Athi River subcounty police commander Samuel Mukuusi said the director was arrested for operating without a license from the ministry. Munyau spent the night in Athi River police cells and was released on Sh100,000 bail at Mavoko law courts. The parents termed the director's arrest and closure of the school malicious. “Police raided the school and ejected our children from their classrooms before arresting the director, this is unfair,” Jane Mutua said. Mutua claimed there was no official communication from the ministry stating why the school was closed. “Some of the children should be sitting for their Grade 3 examinations,” she added. Judith Wahungu said, “The director of Education ordered the closure accompanied by her quality assurance counterpart, we want justice.” They addressed the press at the school during the demonstrations. School manager Mary Mwende dismissed the allegations that the school was operating without a license, saying its license and registration certificate were issued by the ministry in 2017. The ministry had refused to renew the certificate, she said, citing it as the reason it was not up-to-date. She said that they were unable to renew the license since they do not have the documents. The ownership of the land hosting the school is under dispute but Mwende said they have a stay order from the court. When reached for comment, subcounty Education director Kawira Gekabu said she was in a meeting and would call back but she never did. Edited by R.Wamochie