Suspects in the Sh72 million money heist on Wednesday revealed that police suffocated them with banned plastic paper bags reinforced with cellotape on their faces. This was in a bid to allegedly force the suspects to make them say where the stolen money was. It was revealed that the police suffocated different suspects at Flying Squad offices, Kasarani police station parking and near Windsor Hotel on Kiambu road. They further informed the court that the DCI intentionally delayed their medical treatment despite an order given that they get immediate medical attention on Monday. This was revealed as the accused persons sought to be released on bail after denying robbery with violence charges at a Milimani court on Wendesday. They were each granted Sh1 million bond despite the prosecution opposing their release claiming that they are flight risks and they are likely to interfere with investigations. “The state has no right to interfere with the fundamental rights of accused persons,” the defence said on the contrary. In his ruling, chief magistrate Francis Andayi said that he was unsatisfied with the reasons given by the state for their further detention thus asked the six to report daily for the next seven days to the DCI. The six, including three police officers jointly with others at large allegedly robbed G4S staff Sh74 million cash and 38 cassettes, 13 purge bins and 13 canvas bags totaling to Sh 75.9 million. They are said to have been in possession of dangerous weapons that is fire arms and threatened to use actual violence on the staff on September 5. In a second count, the six were yesterday charged with malicious damage of property. The court heard that on the fateful day, the suspects destroyed 36 casettes and 11 purge bins, the property of G4S valued at Sh1,267,000 at Thogotho forest. They all pleaded guilty to the charges and through their lead lawyer Cliff Ombeta asked the court to give them lenient bail and bond terms as they are paid lowly. The case will be mentioned on September 23.