Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko has suspended 16 county officials following the recent tragedy at Precious Talent Academy that killed eight pupils. Through a statement on Wednesday, Sonko suspended the officials to pave way for investigations. The suspended county officials are: 1.Charles Kerich, the current County Executive Committee Member (CECM) for Finance and Economic Planning, who is the immediate former CECM for Lands and Urban Planning 2. Mohammed Dagane – CECM Health (responsible for general public health and safety) 3. Justus Kathenge, suspended County Chief Officer for Urban Planning (to continue in suspension) 4. Jusper Ndeke, Director Planning Compliance and Enforcement 5. Dominic Mutegi, Development Management Director 6. Ochanda Ondari Fredrick, Assistant Director Enforcement 7. Ruth Waruguru, Director Urban Planning 8. Thomas Dudi, Assistant Director Planning 9. Simon Onyango, Development Officer (regularization of buildings/approval of architectural plans) 10. Alex Mucheru, Development Control (overseeing approvals of buildings and schools on behalf of public health and safety) 11. Mackline Saitera, Development Control (approval of building plans and school inspection) 12. Edna Guantai, In-charge of approval of public buildings and schools on behalf of public health 13. Joyce Kyengo, Dagoretti South Sub-County Administrator 14. Lucy Wairimu Munyika, Dagoretti South Sub-County Commander. 15. Sylivia Mwikali Nthinga, Dagoretti South Sub-County Planning Officer 16. Okal Kennedy, Ngando Ward Administrator. NEW APPOINTEES Sonko meanwhile appointed Pauline Kahiga as the acting CEC for Finance and Economic Planning and Veska Kangogo as the acting CEC for Health. He said the two will ensure that there is minimal disruption of services at City Hall. Sonko had accused some of his officers on Monday for approving substandard buildings in the county. He said that he had tried to expose the corrupt officials in his office who have been flouting the Physical Planning Act and zoning regulations with impunity. "Through the audit, I established that on more than one occasion, the rogue officers would switch off the digital system at City Hall to bypass the official channel in issuing building approvals," Sonko said. The governor said that he suspended the County Chief Officer for Planning, Justus Kathenge last month, over irregular activities. He said his administration is committed to demolishing any building in the city that was constructed or is under construction without proper approvals.