MCAs threw punches as chaos broke out again in the Garissa County Assembly as two factions fought on Wednesday over the suspension of four members. One female member was hospitalised because of abdominal pain after she was hit by a 'colleague' during the melee. She had a Caesarian section eight months ago. The sergeant at arms was struggling to remove some members as ordered by  Speaker Ahmed Abass The speaker banned four members from the House for three months for gross misconduct in the house. They are  Fatuma Sanweyn (Nominated), Hussein Dagane (Nominated), Mohamud Omar (Township) and Suleiman Mohamed (Jarajara).  Two factions — one in support of Majority leader in the National Assembly Aden Duale and others supporting the speaker have been hurling accusations and counteraccusations The fights are part of a supremacy battle between Dualel and Abass. The speaker says MCAs are taking instructions from Duale to disrupt house business. Those removed from house committees are all Duale allies. Abass was once Duale's close ally but they broke ranks after he became speaker. Now Abbass is close to Governor Ali Korane. Those removed from house committees are Duale allies. Abass was once Duale's close ally but they broke ranks after he became speaker, now the speaker is close to Governor Ali Korane. Similar chaos erupted last week as ward members engaged in fistfights following the removal of two members from committee leadership. Dekaharja ward representative Yusuf Omar and nominated member Maryan Hassan were expelled from the Agriculture and Roads chair committees, respectively. Police were deployed with orders to keep everyone, including journalists, away. The assembly has been turned into a battleground since last week as rival groups clashed over the removal of some members from committee leadership. Nominated Member Fatuma Sanweyn called the suspensions illegal and accused the speaker of bias. “The suspension will depend on what is captured by the Hansard, the procedure used by the speaker is illegal,” she later told the Star. However, in an interview speaker Abass defended the suspension, saying the assembly is a house of rules. “They defied orders to have other members transact their business in the house in decorum, they will not be allowed within the precincts of the assembly for the next three months,” he said. “What they did is gross misconduct according to the Standing Orders in the assembly. There are rules that govern this house,” he added. Abbas said the removal of some members from committee leadership was fronted by the majority Jubilee Party and he only a read their resolutions in the house as required. (Edited by V. Graham) 