Farmers in Taita Taveta County have been advised to plant drought-resistant crops in the next three months in order to increase their yields. Speaking to journalists in Voi, Kenya Metrological Department acting senior director Dr Richard Mwita said drought-resistant crops stand a better chance of surviving under low rainfall. He said the region shall receive a moderate rainfall between the month of October and December. “Drought-resistant crops can tolerate high temperatures and low rainfall because they require less water. They also take a short period of time to grow,” Mwita said. The drought-resistant crops include green grams, sorghum, millet, cassava, and other legumes. Mwita, who is also in charge of observations at the department, further asked farmers to closely work with agricultural extension officers for more advice on the best crops that require less water. The officer said an adverse change of weather conditions in the region and depressed rainfall in the first trimester might negatively affect farming if the right crops are not planted. “Recent observations have shown that this area receives around 270 mililitres of rainfall. Farmers must be well advised before they start planting so that they do not record losses,” he added. Crop Development and Agricultural Research Principal Secretary Prof Hamadi Boga said the government would start a capacity building programme for farmers to boost food production in Taita Taveta County and the Coast region. “We intend to partner with other capacity-building institutions so that we can teach farmers how to farm smart and how to grow for the market and not just growing to eat,” the PS said. He was giving his keynote address in Voi during the closure of the CEMEREM Conference on sustainable development in the extractive industry in Africa. He asked farmers to grow higher-yielding and more resilient crops that would boost them economically. Boga said more research and digitisation of agricultural data and extension system was needed to develop the agriculture sector.