Napoli boss Carlo Ancelotti has criticised the local council over the state of the dressing rooms at the Stadio San Paolo. Renovation work was carried out at the stadium during the summer but still isn’t fully complete, and as a consequence Napoli have had to play away in their first two games of the Serie A campaign, against Fiorentina and Juventus. Napoli have home games against Sampdoria and Liverpool coming up on Saturday and Tuesday respectively, and Ancelotti is concerned about where his players will get changed. In a statement on Napoli’s official website, Ancelotti said: “I saw the conditions of the San Paolo dressing rooms. I am speechless. I accepted the club’s request to play the first two games of the season away from home so that the work could be completed, as promised.” “You can build a house in two months and they were unable to refurbish the dressing rooms! Where are we supposed to change for the games against Sampdoria and Liverpool? The club later posted a video which shows the poor state of the dressing room to back up Ancelotti’s outburst. Renovation work at the stadium was already scheduled to take place but was also necessary after the Universiade athletics event was held there during the summer. Ancelotti went on to describe the work carried out as ‘unprofessional’. “I am outraged by the inadequacy and unprofessionalism of those who had to carry out this work. How could the Region, Municipality and Commissioners disregard the commitments they made to us? I see contempt and a lack of care for the team, club and the city. I am dismayed.” Architect Floriana Smiragli, who is overseeing the construction work, said that she is ‘shocked’ by Ancelotti’s statement, saying that the 60-year-old wasn’t even at the stadium. She told CalcioNapoli24: “We are stunned by Ancelotti’s vicious tackle, especially as today we visited the dressing rooms with Vice-President Edoardo De Laurentiis, who complimented us on the work done. I am shocked, because we have always had a cordial, honest and fair rapport with Napoli and today I read these statements from Ancelotti, who wasn’t even at the stadium. I think they must’ve sent him old photographs.” Smiragli said that Ancelotti’s comments ‘leave a bitter taste in the mouth.’ She said: “I am an architect, when talking about restructuring an apartment, there are always sheets down to cover the floors from paint, it’s not a big deal. This whole situation leaves a bitter taste in the mouth, because the project was agreed with the club and Ancelotti, who asked to have a room dedicated to him and his staff, so we made changes and created that space.” “I also want to point out that we were not in charge of the decorating, we only did the building work, except for the jacuzzi, which is being installed by Napoli and, if we want to be really precise here, is the only thing that hasn’t been finished yet.”