Orange Democratic Movement party has confirmed that  Nasa CEO Norman Magaya is unwell. Through its official Twitter account on Tuesday, the party said that it was aware of his situation adding that it has been supporting him since he was admitted. ODM said that it settled Magaya's medical bills and that the hospital where he is being treated has no pending bills. "To the best of our knowledge, no pending bill exists. The SG Edwin Sifuna visited with him during his most recent hospitalisation and confirmed the same with Magaya. He would ordinarily contact the party if there were any such bills as he has always done," ODM tweeted. Thes statement comes after Magaya went viral on social media amid claims that he has been abandoned by the Nasa principals. Kenyans On Twitter had alleged that Magaya was abandoned despite his crucial role in Nasa during the 2017 general elections where ODM chief Raila Odinga was the flagbearer. ODM added that the party has been handling Magaya's issue silently. It has further urged Kenyans to respect his privacy. "Will go out of our way to safeguard Magaya's welfare, but will do it silently, as we fulfil our mandate to the masses that we serve. These matters are extremely personal and we urge all persons to respect the privacy of Mr. Magaya," Here are KOT reactions on Magaya's matter. Mutahi Ngunyi, "When enemies unite, it means the fight was just a sport. "Norman Magaya" was an ODM Irritant whose cleverness we could not match. We need him healthy for the next duel. Where do I send my donation? Wapi PAYBILL Number?" Robert Alai, " ODM neglected Norman Magaya? The face of their fight against Jubilee in the last election? Now the same people highlighting his plight shouted against me most when I told them that Raila is exploiting the ODM foot-soldiers for selfish gains," Donald B Kipkorir, " Kibra By-Elections should be a litmus test on what kind of leaders we want. Do we elect MPs to beg they tell us they want to give back? Where have they been? In their careers earning Euros or Kshs, how did they lift others up? Is it quantifiable? Empirical? Leadership is not gambling!" Disembe, "Long before the handshake it was actors like Norman Magaya who the system singled out to torment - and torment the system did - to stop the pressure and the agitation"