With the massive failure of political parties such as Jubilee and ODM, Kenya needs a new party and new leaders to guide it to Heaven on Earth. And while the two major parties have failed to take Kenyans to Canaan, the purpose of the new party and new leaders will be to take Kenyans to Canaan, the Promised Land, the First World or Heaven on Earth. As the Bible reminds us, the Israelites were taken to Canaan by Joshua and Caleb whose only vision, mission, aim and ambition was to get land and settle their people in the Promised Land. Because our past leaders had no aim or intention to move their people from the desert of poverty, the journey to Canaan now needs completely new individuals whose only ambition and purpose will make this country a place where their people can live as human beings They have to be different from Presidents Jomo Kenyatta, Daniel Moi, Mwai Kibaki and now Uhuru Kenyatta. It is obvious that the problems Kenyans face today are attributed to old politicians whose leadership has been the cause rather than the solution to these innumerable challenges that make our lives virtually impossible to live. It is equally obvious that these very leaders cannot solve the very problems they created. The new leaders, however, may not have the tolerance to endure them. When we talk of old leaders, we mean those that have been in governments that have contributed to the cause of our problems. But governments, worldwide, are never set up to cause problems but to solve them for the people. Old leaders also mean those who have old policies, old ideas, old ways and old solutions. Albert Einstein defined as madness as “doing the same thing over and over and expecting different results”. Our leaders are mad because they tackle problems by doing the same things over and over and expecting solutions. It is also madness for voters to continue electing the same leaders over and over again and expecting people who have been in government and Parliament for so long to solve their problems. Governments and parliaments solve problems when they are dominated by new brains to make new, problem-solving laws. To vote for new leaders who will govern democratically, solve problems and change things in government, we must have a new party called Chama cha Kwenda Kanaan  — The party to take the people to Canaan. The new party and its members must, however, have a new ideology of socialism or social democracy that will show our destination of socialism and how to get there. Yet we cannot enter the First World unless we are clear about the problems we need to get rid of. First, we must ensure the land is lead by good leaders and not thieves. Kenya will remain stuck in the current quagmire of misery as long as our leaders are rotten. As the proverb says, “When the leader limps, the flock does not reach the pastures.” Second, the people must have a good system that is structured to solve, not create, problems. It will be madness to expect to end unemployment and stick to capitalism whose tragic nature is to breed poverty for the majority. Unfortunately, capitalism does not only breed poverty: It also breeds the corruption we read about every day. Only that we are never told that capitalism does not only breed poverty. It also breeds corruption, which it can never eradicate or even control. Finally, the new party and leaders must embrace nationalism that will unite the country by eliminating negative ethnicity that inflames ethnic hatred and genocide that can never allow development that is our key to the First World. 