Education CS George Magoha on Friday shut down a private school in Mombasa over a poor building that put the lives of pupils in danger. Green Field School in Migadini in Changamwe constituency becomes the fourth school to be closed down by the ministry since Monday when eight pupils died after a building collapsed at Precious Talent Academy in Nairobi. Magoha, who is on a nationwide tour to inspect schools, said Green Field School  was exposing the lives of 440 pupils to danger. “We have today shut down the Green Field School. The school director has asked us to give them time to rectify the problem, but I cannot allow that to happen with my children inside. Therefore, that school shall remained closed,” Magoha said. The Education CS said the 440 pupils will be absorbed by the nearby Umoja Primary, which he said has enough capacity. “My instructions are very simple, that all those children at Green Field School should come to this Umoja Primary School. The school is big enough, has enough water and has excess capacity,” he said. He directed the Mombasa county education director to make sure the students are assisted. “If they require any kind of assistance, especially those in the CBC classes, which are very close to my heart, they should get text books free of charge,” he said. He said the 33 candidates at Green Field School should be given first priority at Umoja Primary School. “They will come here as a block; they should be given top priority. They must take exams without any problem,” he said. Magoha said he would be making impromptu visits round all private and public primary schools to assess the quality of structures. “I will be moving like a submarine. I will be moving to regions without announcing,” he said. Benson Otieno Ochieng, the director of Green Field School, said the school had been given a three-month grace period to rectify their mistakes. “The CS has advised us where necessary. He has given as a three-month grace period to rectify the structures because the only problem is the structure which is a storey building. Come January, we’ll be back to business," he said. However, the director said he was afraid the Class 8 candidates will be affected by the relocation to other school following the Magoha’s directive. “I’m worried the performance of our candidates will be affected by this sudden relocation,” he said.