Greensharks coach Ben Owaga plans to drop two midfielders for strikers in a bid to overpower United States International University(USIU) A Mashujaa at the City Park Stadium tomorrow. "I will have to drop one or two midfielders because we want to cause problems for them. We have worked hard and the results are a manifestation of how we have dramatically improved. With the quartet of captain Victor Osiche, Chris Wokila, Chris Muchwanju and Clayson Luvanda we can match any team," said Owaga. The Kenya Hockey Union(KHU) Premier League outfit are enjoying the form of their lives and welcome Kevin Simiyu from injury adding selection dilemma in the department. Sharks will be keen to return to winning ways following 1-1 all draw with Western Jaguars a fortnight ago. Sharks sit third with 20 points. They have won two and drawn a similar number of matches in their last four matches. The coach said the adjustments will only be justifiable with maximum points after 60 minutes. Elsewhere, defending champions and league leaders Butali will be seeking to open a four-point gap at the top when they play 2016 champions Strathmore University Gladiators today. The students were hammered 7-0 in the first leg and will be keen to make amends. Butali have 27 points and are yet to taste defeat. In the women's league, Lakers will hope to exploit their home advantage when they take a struggling Kenyatta University Titans at the Kisumu Simba Stadium. Titans who have two points against their name remain winless. Laker skipper Linah Barasa said they will be banking on lethal striker Aurelia Atieno for goals but warned against complacency. She said: "We know the season has not been good for our opponents but we cannot underrate them. " Second-placed USIU A Spartans will hope to win their fourth consecutive match when they face Sailors. Victory for Willis Okeyo's tutored side will enable them close the gap to six points with leaders Telkom. Strathmore University Scorpions play  Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology.