Good morning, Governor Mike Sonko threw Nairobi county into a crisis yesterday after he suspended 16 county officials including his 'Super CEC' Charles Kerich. The mass suspensions followed the Monday tragedy at Precious Talent Academy where a collapsed building killed eight pupils. With the latest changes, nearly half of Sonko's cabinet will be serving in an acting capacity meaning they cannot make some decisions. Here are the other stories making headlines in the Star this morning. President Uhuru Kenyatta and Somalia's Mohamed Farmaajo said yesterday that they had agreed to normalise relations between the two Horn of Africa countries. Kenya and Somalia have been at loggerheads over the maritime boundary in the Indian Ocean. Yesterday, Egyptian President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi announced that he had brokered a deal between the two countries. In their first face-to-face meeting since March, Presidents Kenyatta and Farmaajo gave signals that a deal could be in the offing with the formation of a “Kenyan-Somali Committee.” Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko has suspended 16 county officials following the recent tragedy at Precious Talent Academy that killed eight pupils. Through a statement on Wednesday, Sonko suspended the officials to pave way for investigations. Sonko meanwhile appointed Pauline Kahiga as the acting CEC for Finance and Economic Planning and Veska Kangogo as the acting CEC for Health. He said the two will ensure that there is minimal disruption of services at City Hall. Sonko had accused some of his officers on Monday for approving substandard buildings in the county. Details of how taxpayers could be losing billions of shillings in dirty tactics by Kenya Revenue Authority officials have put the taxman on the spot. Some rogue officers have allegedly used loopholes in the tax management system to pay falsified refunds, delete records and approve tax returns without documentary support. More Kenyans are leaning towards using mobile money to pay their bills as opposed to using hard cash. In its quarterly report for the April-June period, the Communications Authority’s data shows 103 mobile money transactions are being carried out per second in the country, a rise from 92 e-wallet transfers the same period last year. Over the review period, 75 of the 103 transactions per second went into paying for commodities and different utilities such as electricity and water bills. On an early Sunday morning, Dr Meshack Ndirangu was called to perform an emergency caesarean section. He was by then working as a medical doctor at the Kakuma Mission Hospital in Turkana county. The pregnant woman had antepartum haemorrhage. This refers to the bleeding before giving birth. Dr Ndirangu, who is also the Amref Health Kenya country director, realised the woman needed blood for the operation. There was no blood, neither was there a matching blood donor.