The Office of the Attorney General and Department of Justice will on Tuesday launch the accelerating of the Ratification and Domestication of African Union Treaties. In a statement on Monday, the launch aims at enhancing understanding and appreciation of the status of ratification and the domestication of the six treaties in Kenya. Further, the launch seeks to assess progress made, identify existing obstacles and challenges encountered in the ratification and domestication process of these treaties as well as those yet to ratified. Kenya over the years has so far ratified five of the six treaties. Among them is the African Charter on Human and People’s Rights that was ratified January 1992. It is intended to promote and protect human rights and basic freedoms of the African continent. "The treaty is commonly referred to as the ‘Banjul Charter’ and is an international human rights instrument that is intended to promote and protect human rights and basic freedoms in the African continent," the AG statement read. Maputo Protocol Kenya has also ratified The Protocol on the African Charter on Human and People’s Rights on the Rights of Women in Africa (Maputo Protocol) was ratified in October 2010. It provides for special protocols or agreements to supplement the provisions of the African Charter. The African Youth Charter The African Youth Charter was ratified in January 2014. The charter provides for various rights of the African Youth ranging from freedom of movement, freedom of thought and religion to youth participation and the right to gainful employment. The African Charter on Democracy, Elections and Governance The fifth treaty ratified in Kenya in 2007  is The African Charter on Democracy, Elections and Governance. The main objectives of this treaty are to promote and strengthen the development in Africa by each State Party. Kenya is yet to ratify the AU Convention on Prevention and Combating Corruption. Kenya signed the Charter on 28th June 2008 but has since not ratified it. The Charter on Democracy, Elections and Governance emphasises the need for African states to commit themselves to the principles of democracy, rule of law and human rights, particularly the constitutional transfer of power and recognition of popular participation through universal suffrage.