Former Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale has come under sharp criticism after implying that Former Harambee Stars midfielder McDonald Mariga has been denied a chance to vie for the Kibra parliamentary seat. Khalwale who decamped to Jubilee from the opposition said ODM leader Raila Odinga’s brother and Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka's son got free slots at the East Africa Legislative Assembly yet Mariga was being denied the chance. “I come from a most unequal country where Kennedy Kalonzo and Oburu Odinga are gifted free parliamentary seats in EALA but Mariga (a hustler's son) is being denied a chance to compete for a seat in Kibra! The Hustler Nation will speak," Boni tweeted. With over 1,200 replies, Kenyans on Twitter blasted the former senator advising him to stop shifting blame after Mariga’s misgivings. @jojokuti1 said “But you won't mention Ruto's daughter who was handpicked to be an ambassador in Poland, Issokay.” “I really feel your pain, imagine June Ruto, DP Ruto's daughter in her early 20's is a Polish Charge D’Affaires, where she heads Kenya's embassy in the absence of an ambassador. While Dr Khalwale being a medical doc and serious leader is her dad's blogger and spanner boy,” @Arllence said. @Gideon_kitheka said “If that is the mentality "hustler" has, this Nation will be rotten under their leadership.” “This hustler narrative cannot sell, a hustler spinning a 40 million machine,?bring policies on board let voters compare notes and make their own decision.” @dennoh said. @bkairu5 said “There's nothing like HUSTLER NATION. This hustler story has some life because you are LUCKY, lucky that millions of Kenyans are GULLIBLE and easily manipulated into thinking that some billionaire and millionaire "hustlers" with questionable wealth have their interests at heart.” @douglasorangi said, “The Hustler Nation, if any, must register as voters but not just register when they want to vie #KOTLoyals.” “Who is denying Mariga the opportunity to vie for Kibra Parliamentary seat, it's his own faults, tanga tanga prefers short cuts than the right procedure,”@hills_prince said. @Frankmtetezi said “With this kind of thinking Democracy will never grow In Kenya, no chapter in our constitution should be omitted not even a full stop. Omwami!” “Once one breaks the cycle of poverty an attempt to cite their background to justify their desire to gain a further advantage is unreasonable. Now that DP Ruto, you and Mariga have changed the history of your family backgrounds why not give way for real hustlers,” @cotendoh said. Parrasis Otieno tweeted,"@KBonimtetezi do not involve mzee Noah Wanyama in this charade. If you wanted a bit of Mariga's money you must have already pocketed some. Just don't vomit on the dad's shoes. He is a much better person than you and your fellow hand out seekers. On Tuesday, both the IEBC legal and ICT teams advised commissioners that Mariga, who is being fronted by DP Willliam Ruto, should not be cleared because he had not been duly registered. The two teams explained that Mariga, who had not been registered previously anywhere, dashed to Kariakor on August 26 where he applied for registration, nearly two weeks after National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi had declared the seat vacant. This comes even as Mariga has petitioned IEBC saying that the decision was improper, null and void.