A section of Nakuru residents and an MP want the government to lift the ban on logging to allow Kenya Forest Service to sell mature trees rotting in some forests. Molo MP Kimani Kuria said businesses in the sector has suffered, resulting in a sharp increase in the prices of timber and wood products in the country. “Traders who had bought trees just before the ban have suffered a major blow as the trees are now rotting in the forests. The extended logging ban has also hurt builders and workers in the industry,” Kuria said. He said jobs have been lost and many traders in the industry are being auctioned for being unable to repay their loans. The ban on logging and extraction of timber in all public and community forests was initially imposed on February 24 last year before it was extended to November this year. Environment Cabinet Secretary Keriako Tobiko said more time was required for the full implementation of new measures to protect the forests. “Many builders are postponing their projects indefinitely, a situation that threatens the growth of the sector hence hindering industrialisation which is one of Jubilee government’s Big Four Agenda,” the MP said. He said they have proposed a Sh18 billion budget to handle challenges of deforestation in the next five years. Timber players said the escalating timber prices have forced some developers to explore the use of light gauge steel trusses to divert from the costs. A steel truss is made from steel coils with a protective alloy of aluminium that forms a protective barrier against erosion. Resident Peter Kamau said, “I used to work at a timber factory in Molo, but since the extension of the logging ban, at least 50 workers were told to go home until the ban has been lifted. I have a family of seven. I’m unable to pay for their basics as I do not have any source of income." Deforestation, encroachment and degradation of water catchment areas and riparian land have been cited as a cause of water shortage in the country. According to the government, the extension of the ban will aid in the restoration and rehabilitation of the critical water catchment and natural forest areas currently estimated at 123,553 acres. It will also allow for the replanting of the backlog clear-fell plantation areas currently estimated at 76,603 acres with indigenous tree species. The ban will also allow scaling up of the ongoing national tree planting campaigns aimed at achieving 10 per cent forest cover by 2022 as directed by the President, the ministry said. On February 26 last year, the ministry appointed a task force headed by Green Belt Movement chairperson Marion Wakanyi to carry out investigations on forest resource management and logging actives at KFS. The task force recommended strict enforcement on the ban of charcoal, eviction of illegal of settlers, lifestyle audit of KFS staff and making it mandatory participation of both the county and national governments in tree-planting campaigns. It also asked that then KFS board be reconstituted, a caretaker team appointed, more KFS rangers trained and recommended adoption of technology to increase efficiency. Edited by R.Wamochie