Deputy President William Ruto has said the quest for constitutional change by one person should not derail development needs of Kenyans. He noted that the country should be spared of the constitutional drama. Ruto on Sunday asked the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) to pursue the individual, and ask him the changes he requires in the document instead of railroading Kenyans who had other important needs. “BBI should ask him what he needs changed in the Constitution for him to accept the outcome of elections,” said Ruto. The DP said the provision of services to Kenyans should not be halted by the calls for constitutional changes, adding that a referendum was the least among issues Kenyans wanted at the moment. Speaking on Sunday during a prayer service at the Our Lady of Sorrows, Baricho Catholic Parish in Kirinyaga County, the Deputy President blamed ODM leader Raila Odinga for his incessant and irritating calls for the change of the Constitution. He cautioned Jubilee against entertaining the debate for the referendum, saying it may impede its development agenda. Leaders accompanying him were MPs John Kiarie (Dagoretti South), Rigathi Gachagua (Mathira), Jayne Kihara (Naivasha), George Macharia (Ndia), Eric Muchangi (Runyenjes), Esther Emanikor (Woman Rep, Turkana) and Gladys Shollei (Woman Rep, Uasin Gishu).Others were Purity Ngirici (Woman Rep, Kirinyaga), Sylvanus Maritim (Ainamoi) and Mary Seneta (Woman Rep, Kajiado). “Those who want to put us in that debate should give us space and time to continue transforming Kenya,” Ruto explained, adding that the discussions on the Constitution were for politicians shopping for seats and power. The Deputy President noted that it was time leaders appreciated the fact that they had been given the mandate to make the lives of Kenyans better through the implementation of the Jubilee Manifesto, Big Four agenda and the Vision 2030. “Therefore, for us to move this country forward, our unity is an important ingredient. Let us harmonise our actions and focus on first things first,” he explained. Ruto pledged to continue supporting the President Uhuru Kenyatta in the implementation of Government projects. The leaders said they would support the review of the Constitution if it would help in transforming the lives of Kenyans. The Kirinyaga Woman Representative said referendum was a costly affair that would only create division and further ethnicity in the country. She added that the resources for the exercise should be channeled to development projects that would empower the people. “We cannot burden the anymore selfish interests,” said Maritim, who was supported by his Runyenjes counterpart. Muchangi noted that Kenyans were tired, stressed and hungry, and any attempts to put more loads on them would kill them. Meanwhile, Gachagua said Mt Kenya would continue supporting the President and his Deputy. He criticisised those opposed to Ruto’s of the country, saying “it is the duty of the Deputy President to assist the President in the implementation of the Government’s projects”. “If they fail, it is Ruto who would he held to account,” added the Mathira MP.