KCB have shown their potential to compete at the top of the food chain in the Kenyan Premier League collecting a table-topping four points in their opening two matches. However, their real mettle will be known tomorrow when they face the ultimate test in their bid to be considered serious title contenders against three-peat defending champions Gor Mahia in Machakos. The bankers have been one of the teams on everyone's lips ever since they secured the services of Zedekiah Otieno as head coach and unveiling some of the most experienced and talented players in the championship. Two of those, Enock Agwanda and Stephen Waruru, scored in their opening day thumping of Sony and will need to keep that form up against a tough Gor Mahia defence. This matchup was one of the entertaining games last season when Gor had to dig deep to claim a point after finding themselves three-nil down. A repeat of a similar implosion this time round will spell doom for Steven Polack's charges given the calibre of defenders at the bankers' disposal. Very little good news has been coming from the K'Ogalo camp in the build-up to this clash but their fans fervour and their serial winners' mentality will need to merge for them to prevent a rare defeat. This clash will be preceded with another tough to predict meeting between Posta Rangers and Western Stima. Posta have shown improvement since the installation of Sammy Omollo as coach and should other results go their way, they could find themselves top of the table by tomorrow evening. Kakamega Homeboyz, meanwhile, entertain yet-to-win Kariobangi Sharks. Kisumu All-Stars welcome Nzoia Sugar at the Moi Stadium Kisumu. Hyped returnees Wazito seek their first win of the season when they play AFC Leopards at the Bukhungu Stadium. Wazito Sporting Director Solomon Alubala said they felt at home having been involved in soccer activities in the region, something that has endeared them to the fans, whom he urged to turn out in numbers and support the team. "The team is still settling but we believe we will perform well going by the quality we have within our ranks. Our first two matches have been very difficult though we have witnessed great improvement and we are ready to start picking maximum points," said Alubala. "I’m wary of the wounded Leopards, who are also seeking their first win and so it will be tough playing against them. Our players should be very cautious though not under pressure." "Wazito has strong roots in this region and we want to build on this to establish a strong fan base.' Sofapaka play Chemelil Sugar tomorrow at the Narok Stadium while Tusker travel to face Zoo FC at the Kericho Green Stadium.