A senior official at the Education ministry may soon find himself in trouble. The officer working at Jogoo House has been approving collection of illegal fees by rogue principals in Nairobi. In one instance, the official allowed a national school within the capital city to levy parents an additional Sh10,000 per student against the law. The official has been exploiting a provision in the Education Act that allows education officers to approve additional levies, to the agony of parents. Corridors is aware that the officer collects the monies from schools on Fridays in the guise of conducting inspections. Over to you Education CS George Magoha. Controversy continue to follow ex-football star MacDonald Mariga. Just days after claims that the man was only registered as a voter two weeks ago, there is fresh scrutiny about his national identity. His ID card number has raised a lot of interest among some of his critics in Jubilee. It starts with a 29... Some say, the ID  number suggest the budding politician could be younger than his actual age. Yesterday, there were claims he was driven to Jubilee headquarters with a police outrider with yellow siren. Some have said that is only meant for the President and his deputy. Did a section of political leaders from the Kipsigs Community hold a secret meeting with a senior cabinet secretary over the Mau eviction issue? A small bird has confided in the Star that some former Mps and an ex-governor from the region held a lengthy meeting with the influential Cabinet Secretary  to avert a nasty confrontation between the locals and security forces. The leaders who regard themselves as the neutral voice in the region's political dynamics sought the meeting after it became apparently clear that the state had deployed hundreds of security officers in readiness for the eviction exercise. It is alleged that the president quietly ordered a go-slow on the evictions after the leader's meeting with the CS. When ODM fired the director of political affairs Wafula Buke last week, no senior official from the party wanted to comment on the matter. Party mandarins have remained quit despite media inquiries. However, there are speculations that his sacking could be linked to disputes over the purchase of party headquarters. Those in the know Claim that Buke complained about the house being overpriced and he had resisted all attempts to purchase the house .The house is said to have cost many millions more than the actual price. The house is located along Loyangalani drive in Lavington, Nairobi.