Rarieda MP Otiende Amollo has clashed with Senate majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen after IEBC cleared Former Harambee Stars player McDonald Mariga. IEBC cleared Mariga to run for Kibra by-election. The spat begun when Otiende said the entire commission needs to be fixed from the top. “Listening to the Pontifications & Prevarications Of The IEBC Commissioners; It is clear to me, more than before, that we must sweep the commission clean at the top levels,” Otiende tweeted on Monday hours after Mariga was cleared. But in a quick rejoinder, Majority leader in the senate Kipchumba Murkomen said  ODM still holds grudges with IEBC even after the handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and their party leader Raila Odinga. “ODM is still suffering the same disease even after handshake. It’s either their way or no way,” Murkomen said. Murkomen had earlier compared the final verdict from the IEBC with a Video Assistant Referee intervention in a football match. He said IEBC intervention was right to reverse a ruling that had disqualified Mariga from Kibra by-election even after registering as a voter. Kenyans on Twitter weighed in the matter with the majority taking sides. Shamba La Wanyama said , " This one I support you Murkomen but don't generalise. I am an ODM member from Langata but I don't agree with Amollo. Mariga has a right," Stephen Omondi commented that " Is this individual speaking on behalf of ODM? since when did you start supporting the handshake?" Sir Paul said, " Does the handshake mean that people ought to keep quiet when the law is flagrantly flouted in favour of an individual?" " You guys never learn. BBI should have had IEBC as its primary objective. Instead, you sent it for a fishing expedition. Now you are here crying. Seems like IEBC is good when it rules ODM way. Quite unfortunate.," Kalos Voice said. " Sweep it clean and replace with commissioners who can dance to the tune of Raila Odinga and his sycophants. Learn to accept defeat," Siboyi Ang'ana tweeted. " Just wondering why are they so scared of Mariga. I thought it would be a walkover for the entitled?" Ospina said. Arap Bett, " Unfortunately NASA/ODM's mission changed from cleaning our electoral system to appeasing the President. Time is running out,"