Politicians from the Mt Kenya region have been urged to seek wise counsel from elders to stop wrangles. Agikuyu chief priests, led by Gikurumi wa Nyambura, on Monday said they are ready to guide leaders and offer prayers to ensure peace and cohesion. Politicians from the region have been embroiled in political feuds over President Uhuru Kenyatta's succession. Those under the Tangatanga banner have been campaigning for DP William Ruto’s 2022 presidential bid, while others under the Kieleweke team support President Uhuru Kenyatta’s legacy agenda and are against premature 2022 poll campaigns. The ugly side of this politics played out when chaos marred a church service after a scuffle between Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro and his nominated counterpart Maina Kamanda. Nyoro later apologised and Kamanda cautioned him against repeat his mistake. Elders feel the political class needs advice. Gikurumi said they are wise enough to advise politicians on how they can play politics while maintaining peace and understanding among themselves. He said leadership does not last forever, hence people should not fight over it. The elders emphasised the need to preach peace for the sake of future generations. “They should know they’re leading people and not trees. Our leaders also need to realise that even if they are given the whole world to lead, their leadership will come to an end one day,” Gikurumi said. “They should also realise that they will die one day and be buried just like any other human beings.” He said violence, corruption and divisive politics are unnecessary and instead called for peace and cohesion. The chief priests were drawn from different councils of elders. They gathered in Kiambuthia area, Kieni East, at the foot of Mt Kenya, a short distance from the new Kikuyu shrine. The media briefing was meant to thank President Kenyatta and his administration for allowing them access to the shrine, which is in the Mt Kenya forest. The elders have set up an altar at the shrine.  It was handed over to the Kikuyu priests by Environment CS Keriako Tobiko in mid-August. “We, the Kikuyu chief priests, wish to thank the President and his government very sincerely for allowing us access to the shrine. It is a kind gesture that we had not witnessed before,” Gikurumi said. Previously, they were arrested and fined for forest officers whenever they visited the shrine to pray. The elders said clerics and members of the Kikuyu community are free to visit the place and pray. They must only avoid the altar, which is meant for the Agikuyu chief priests. (Edited by F'Orieny)