Kenya found itself in an awkward position at the ongoing UN Climate Change Forum in New York after several countries pledged to phase out coal-fired plants. Kenya plans to build a 1,050MW coal plant at a cost of Sh200 billion in Lamu "to boost industrialisation and improve lives". The Heads of State of Finland, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, Portugal, and Slovakia announced they will be phasing out coal plants. South Korea said it would shut down four coal-fired power plants, and close six more by 2022. It will also double its contribution to the Green Climate Fund. President Uhuru Kenyatta headed the Kenyan delegation to the summit that opened in New York last week. Kenya has, despite scientific evidence and international outcry against coal plants, repeatedly dismissed critics of the coal-fired power plants as "enemies of progress". In June, Government spokesman Cyrus Oguna defended the proposed Lamu coal plant. "Industrialisation requires affordable, stable and reliable sources of energy. For Kenya, that source has been identified as coal. This will be the main source to drive industrial growth," Oguna told the press at his Teleposta Towers office. The UN, scientists, NGOs say there will be "dire consequences" for health and the environment. The National Environment Tribunal in June revoked a licence issued for the plant by National Environment Management Authority. Amu Power Company Ltd is expected to build the plant at Kwasasi in Lamu. UN Secretary-General António Guterres on Monday lauded the countries that had declared their intent to shut down coal plants. Guterres said, “You have delivered a boost in momentum, cooperation and ambition. But we have a long way to go.” He added, “We need more concrete plans, more ambition from more countries and more businesses. We need all financial institutions, public and private, to choose, once and for all, the green economy.” A total of 77 countries committed to cut greenhouse gas emissions to net-zero by 2050. Seventy others announced they will either boost their national action plans by 2020 or have started the process. More than 100 business leaders pledged to align their activities with the Paris Climate Agreement targets of transitioning from the grey to a green economy. Some 31 corporations committed to stopping the construction of new coal power plants in 2020 and transition to renewable energy. Guterres said the UN will follow-up on the pledged commitments, scale-up and monitor the initiatives to achieve the promised goals and objectives. All initiatives presented to the Secretary-General will be captured on the UNFCCC Global ClimateAction portal. 