Playoff slot will be at stakes when Equity Bank face Kenya Defence Forces during the sixth circuit of the national league set for September 13 in Nanyuki, Laikipia County. Veteran tactician Sammy Kirongo of fifth-placed Equity Bank said as it is, this duel will determine who between the two sides will finish in the top four in the regular season and advance to playoffs. Both sides will parade their best line-ups and the match no doubt promises thrills. KDF are fourth on the log. Kirongo said his lineup is progressing well with preparations and are looking forward to grabbing maximum points —six from their two fixtures. The bankers also battle Nairobi Prisons, a side Kirongo intimates should not trouble them whatsoever. "We are preparing well for the league. At the moment, we are tightening the bolts in various departments.  KDF  are tough side and knowing that the winner of this match has a chance to get to the playoff, we will take no chances," averred Kirongo, a former Kenya international and national team coach who recruited a majority of players who completed High School in 2017 and 2018. KDF, who are  based in Nyeri, also come up against champions General Service Unit and Kenya Prisons who have always been a thorn in Ulinzi's flesh in Nanyuki. Coach Pius Birech said they have to bring down the bankers to have a safe standing for a title-hunt slot in the playoff. "GSU and Kenya Prisons have always been a headache for us in the past two years but the youthful team we now have will offer good challenge this time around," noted Birech whose team has been out of local competitive action for two months, owing to military duties. "Against Equity, it is an a-must-win game for us to be hopeful of playoffs. Both teams are youthful, ambitious and equally talented so it's going to be a tough one. We are preparing accordingly," he added. After the Nanyuki circuit, the military outfit remains with two fixtures pitting them against Kenya Ports Authority and Administration Police while the bankers have meetings with GSU, Vihiga County and Mombasa Prisons in the final circuit in Kapsabet next month.