Nacada on Thursday took its campaigns to Wajir where it sensitised residents against abuse of drugs. Wajir is among counties where the National Authority for the Campaign Against Alcohol and Drug Abuse says substance misuse remains entrenched. Bhang and Codeine, a substance contained in cough syrup are among the most abused drugs in the region. Youths have also been accused of excessive chewing of miraa. Thursday's campaign was led by Nacada chairman Julius Githire. The authority held a consultative meeting political leaders, police bosses, religious leaders, youth and women leaders and the business community. Githire said the authority will work closely with the leaders to develop programmes to sensitise residents. “We are ready to work with the local leadership and government agencies to ensure Wajir achieves its desire to be a drug-free community. We are also asking those who have been selling drugs in the community that the time has come to change and look for alternative businesses,” Githire said. He the agency had launched a Nacada Mashinani campaign and that the board would be overseeing its implementation for the next three months. Wajir county commissioner Lyford Kibaara said police will work with community leaders to fight the drug menace. “We want to assure the public that we will never relent in the fight against drug abuse. Within the period agreed on, we want to work on a strategy and have bhang and other drugs out of here,” Kibaara said. Wajir East MP Rashid Kassim said the drug menace needed an urgent intervention before it completely ruins the society. He said the new strategy should be developed quickly to arrest the problem. “It is our desire that we give hope to our young people. We want to ensure they grow in a community that is able to nature their skills and talents in a drug-free environment,” Kassim said. He added, “It is encouraging that that we have the support of everyone as we walk this journey. No society can progress in a contaminated environment." During the two-day forum, some youths said they ended up suffering the consequences of drug abuse because of ignorance. edited by peter obuya