The chickens have come home to roost for the architects of the Kimwarer dam scandal. Sources whispered to Corridors that some foreigners who dished out bribes to land the lucrative contract are now demanding back their cash. It is not clear if they will name those who asked for and pocketed the kickbacks. The demand came just days after President Uhuru Kenyatta cancelled the dam project to the chagrin of some allies of Deputy President William Ruto A senior parliamentary staffer recently received a tongue-lashing from commissioners after he was busted trying to arm-twist the powerful statutory body to approve some irregularities. The official allegedly sneaked in some employees who have been working as interns and whom he wanted confirmed. However, the commission turned down the official's request in the wake of new employment terms that require engagement on contract terms. It is said that this is not the first time this has happened. The official is well known for bending procedures in favour of personal interests. The Parliamentary Service Commission is said to be unhappy with him. An acting chief executive officer of a state agency is being accused of launching a vicious witch-hunt against his predecessor. While the soft-spoken ex-CEO left office under unclear circumstances and handed over to the acting boss, information leaking from the office lately has exposed the frosty relationship between the two. The duo worked together initially. The acting boss has been sponsoring online warriors to attack the former CEO. With an ongoing recruitment process for a substantive boss, the battle has caught the attention of the board that is said to be concerned with the developments that only serve to undermine the parastatal. Meanwhile, the acting CEO is angling for confirmation. Is a first-term legislator from Migori county on the brink of being broke? His constituents are asking loudly why their leader appears to be always using the NG-CDF official vehicles. Sometimes, he squeezes in the vehicles with his workers as witnessed in his recent visits. A little bird showed Corridors a copy of a recent payslip from the legislator indicating he only takes home Sh180,000-per month after several deductions, mostly going to loans. The legislator has been known to be keen on the finer things of life. His love for women is no secret with his WhatsApp chat with a women he was trying to seduce being shared on social media in the past.