Ousted Kisumu County Assembly Speaker Onyango Oloo has maintained he will not resign from his position as he is innocent. Addressing the press on Wednesday, Oloo said the court had not barred him from accessing his office. The embattled speaker insisted that he is not ready to allow anyone to infringe on his rights which he claimed was bestowed upon him by the people of Kisumu and the ODM party. "Whatever I was given by Raila Odinga and by the people of Kisumu, I will not allow the devil to take it away," Oloo said. "Raila will summon me and I will say yes baba. I will board the next flight and I will be there in the next hour and step aside." He challenged MCAs to table a motion in the House to remove him from office in a lawful manner. "They must address the issue of bringing a proper motion of impeachment and serve me properly. I will honourably step aside for the sake of ODM if they get enough numbers," Oloo said. "Until that is done what they are doing are mere shenanigans that have no place in the future of politics." Oloo further said that the misfortunes following him are being perpetrated by people who were not pleased by his decisions as speaker during the budget-making process. "I seemed to have stepped on delicate toes in the course of the budget-making process and in the course of defending the people of Kisumu," he said. Oloo said the current sitting speaker Elisha Oraro who is serving in an acting capacity is there illegally. Oloo was earlier on Wednesday barred by MCAs on as he tried to access his office. The MCAs referred Oloo to the ODM internal dispute resolution mechanism to handle the matter. MCA Market Milimani Ward Seth Kanga who is also the ODM chair Kisumu Central noted that Oloo has to go to the party headquarters and sort out his issues first before he can come back. “We listen to the party and what it says. When the party agrees that he comes back we will allow him to do so but as per now, we can't let him,” Kanga said. MCAs elected Oraro as acting speaker until corruption charges against Oloo are cleared. Oloo was accused by the Director of Public Prosecutions for receiving a Sh17 million bribe to authorise irregularities in the building of the Lake Basin Mall. This allegedly led to the inflation of the cost from Sh2.1 billion to Sh4.1 billion.