Deputy President William Ruto yesterday said those pushing for the change of the Constitution through the backdoor will not succeed. He said if there must be any review of the Constitution, it has to be people-driven. Speaking at Kidudu Stadium and Ivona Secondary School grounds in Vihiga county during two separate interdenominational prayer services,  Ruto said Constitution review matters require the input of all Kenyans. The DP  said the process must be people-centred, and, therefore, should add value to Kenyans challenging those pushing for the amendment of the law to learn from the Punguza Mizigo Initiative, which is being rejected by Kenyans for failing to incorporate their voices. “It is the people who can decide whether to change the Constitution or not. It is Kenyans who have the final say on issues of changing the Constitution; not a few individuals,” Ruto said. He noted that Kenyans were now preoccupied with issues of development, adding that those engaging in politics of changing the Constitution would not disrupt the Jubilee’s development agenda. “Constitutional change should not be about seats and political power. We want solid and open conversation about issues that would better the lives of Kenyans,” Ruto said. He was accompanied by MPs Benjamin Washiali (Mumias East), Bernard Shinali (Ikolomani), Charles Gimose (Hamisi), John Waluke (Sirisia), Geoffrey Omuse (Teso South), Didmus Barasa (Kimilili), Oscar Sudi (Kapseret), Caleb Kositany (Soy) and Johana Ngeno (Emurua Dikirr). Others were former Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale, former Vihiga Governor Moses Akaranga, former Sports CS Rashid Echesa and former Vihiga MP Yusuf Chanzu. Later in Kapseret during another interdenominational prayer service, the DP  asked politicians to spare the country from the endless political theatrics about power-sharing. He said Kenyans were more interested in service delivery that would transform their lives. "We cannot continue discussing how we will share power or create positions all the time. That is selfish and unreasonable. For the sake of all Kenyans, let us shelve all these debates and serve the people,” Ruto explained. At the same time, the DP  urged leaders to put aside their political differences and take a common stand on matters affecting the people. The leaders present called on ANC Leader Musalia Mudavadi and his Ford-Kenya counterpart Moses Wetangula to work with the Government in furthering the country’s development. They accused the two leaders of lacking the will, stamina and commitment on the much-talked-about Luhya unity. "We want to speak in one language of unity across the Luhya community,” Khalwale said. He  said the Luhya community is ready to unite and walk in one direction for the sake of the region's prosperity Washiali asked Luhya leaders to unite and position the community in Government, saying the region cannot afford to remain in the opposition. “As a community, we should work together ahead of 2022. Our brothers (Mudavadi and Wetangula) have been leading us to the opposition leaving us as outsiders in Government. We should now embrace leaders who can ensure we are part of the next government,”  Washiali said. On his part, Shinali wondered why Musalia and  Wetangula had fielded different candidates in the Kibra by-election instead of using the opportunity to display the Luhya solidarity. Waluke called on  Mudavadi and  Wetangula to team up with  Ruto ahead of the 2022 polls. Barasa asked leaders to discard the archaic politics of division and channel their energy on empowering Kenyans.