National volleyball coach Paul Bitok has revealed that two of his players have landed professional offers and wants their respective clubs to allow them to proceed for trials. He said Sharon Chepchumba, who was the star player in the African Games final match against Cameroon, is a target of four clubs in Turkey while team captain Mercy Moim is wanted in Germany. Chepchumba plays for Pipeline locally while Moim is attached to Kenya Prisons. Bitok said the only way the game can grow in the country is by allowing players to go professional. “Our opponents Cameroon have six professional players in the national team playing in France and this means they are capable of soaking in any kind of pressure thrown at them,” he said. He explained that the poor show in the recent past was ostensibly because of the differences we had in the team. “There was no teamwork before and players did not like each other and this affected performance. I am happy I have tried to work on that and the situation is now calm. I thank God they allowed me to be the glue that brought them together and the results have started showing,” he added. Bitok, however, said that he is not sure whether he will stick with the team because he has no contract at the moment. “I am just a caretaker coach and I am hoping to sit with the Kenya Volleyball Federation to see what the future holds for me.” He, however, warned changing coaches now and then, saying it really affects continuity and consistency. “ I had 10 years contract with Rwanda national team and the results are there for all to see,” he added. He said given a chance, he will plan properly for the forthcoming World Cup and Olympic qualifiers. He, however, said if this is the case, he will have to ring changes considering Kenya is endowed with talent. “Kenya won the East Africa Secondary School Games and this can only translate into the abundance of talent at the grassroots. I would like to capitalise on this situation to beef up the national squad," said Bitok. He admitted that they are still struggling to beat Cameroon but if he sticks around, all that will change. “At the moment, we are not very safe and we really have a lot to do,” he added. He showered Chepchumba with praises saying she is only two years at the top level yet she played a key role in delivering victory against Cameroon. He added there is no time to rest as their calendar is packed.