England got their World Cup campaign off to a scrappy start in Sapporo on Sunday with a 35-3 Pool C victory over Tonga as Manu Tuilagi scored two tries while skipper Owen Farrell added 15 points with the boot. Four years on from their first-round exit on home soil, England were keen to put on a commanding, clinical performance against the Pacific islanders, particularly after the All Blacks had thrashed them 92-7 in a World Cup warmup earlier this month. But the Tongans, led by big-hitting loose forwards Sione Kalamafoni and Zane Kapeli, proved difficult to break down at the Sapporo Dome and it was only rampaging centre Tuilagi’s tries that gave England an 18-3 advantage at halftime. With a combination of basic errors and indiscipline robbing England of momentum, England had to wait until the 56th minute for their third try as hooker Jamie George went over off the back of a driving maul. England somehow failed to claim their fourth try when Henry Slade failed to connect with Elliot Daly with the line at their mercy but replacement Luke Cowan-Dickie claimed the bonus point try after being sent clear by Jonathan Joseph. England next face the United States in Pool C on Thursday while Tonga take on Argentina on Saturday. Meanwhile, Ireland put aside their stuttering 2019 form with an emphatic 27-3 victory over their main Pool A rivals Scotland to open their World Cup campaign in convincing style in Yokohama yesterday. Forwards James Ryan, Rory Best and Tadhg Furlong all smashed over in the first 25 minutes and winger Andrew Conway secured the bonus point with the fourth try in the second half, with a single Greig Laidlaw penalty all Scotland had to show. There was some concern that injury-prone flyhalf Johnny Sexton gave up kicking duties early on, and flanker Peter O’Mahony and centre Bundee Aki left early with head injuries, but coach Joe Schmidt said Sexton was fine and that the other two were symptom-free. Scotland also lost flanker Hamish Watson to a serious-looking injury. “I was delighted with the first half, I think we really put some pressure on, defensively as well as in attack,” Schmidt said in a pitchside interview. “I think they (Scotland) are a team that will be very, very hard to bowl later in the tournament and maybe we just got them early enough that they hadn’t quite hit their straps.” With the flat, unsuccessful defence of their 2018 Six Nations title still hanging over them, Ireland were desperate to get up and running quickly in Japan and did exactly that as the three early tries from their front five put them in total control. Early on, Italy scored three tries within the space of 10 minutes either side of halftime to give themselves some breathing room against a stubborn Namibia before recording a 47-22 win in their Pool B opener at the Hanazono Rugby Stadium in Osaka. The Italians had dominated much of the play in the first half with their forwards providing a stable base to attack and create space but it was not until scrumhalf Tito Tebaldi scored on the stroke of halftime that they were able to pull away. Winger Edoardo Padovani and replacement Carlo Canna both crossed shortly after the break to put the game beyond doubt as the Italians earned a bonus point from their seven tries. Namibia, who have now lost all 20 of their World Cup matches, still managed to give the crowd something to cheer with tries to scrumhalf Damian Stevens and wingers J.C. Greyling and Chad Plato. The Italians now travel to Fukuoka to meet Canada on Thursday, while Namibia face South Africa in Toyota City on Saturday. The Italians, however, suffered a significant injury blow when tighthead prop Tiziano Pasquali was carried off late in the first half after he collided with captain Sergio Parisse’s shoulder when they made a tackle. The Namibians provided an early shock with scrumhalf Stevens finishing off a sweeping movement after Italy hooker Luca Bigi had overthrown a lineout. The try, however, seemed to wake up the Italians and they began to exert some scrum dominance with referee Nic Berry awarding a penalty try after the Namibian pack had disintegrated on their line. The Italians then produced several line breaks but were really only able to convert twice, with flyhalf Tommaso Allan smashing over after a superb run by inside centre Luca Morisi. Tebaldi then scored on the stroke of halftime when lock Federico Ruzza popped a no-look pass to the scrumhalf, who gave his side a 21-7 halftime lead. The Italians put the game beyond doubt when Padovani and Canno both crossed to give them a 35-7 lead and seemingly poised to open the floodgates. A penalty from Namibia flyhalf Cliven Loubser and Greyling’s try from an attacking scrum staunched the flow but the Italians used their bench to finish strongly with replacements Jake Polledri and Matteo Minozzi both crossing. Namibia’s Plato finished the scoring from a searing midfield break to give Italy coach Conor O’Shea some concerns about his side’s defence.