IS ODM leader Raila Odinga silently pushing for a direct nomination for a candidate in the November 7 by-election in Kibra? A source has whispered the former Prime Minister has held at least three meetings since last Sunday with the aspirants and implored them to reach a consensus. It is believed that nine hopefuls who were locked out of the nomination actually pulled out contrary to the party that they did not meet the Tuesday noon deadline for payment of participation fees. The source intimated more aspirants will pull out in the coming days. It is not clear why the party is taking the direct nomination route given that he had already announced that ODM will not handpick a candidate. DID a deputy governor from Nyanza recently report his boss to the ethics and anti-corruption over financial malpractices in the county? Well, the DG who has not been seeing eye to eye with his boss, was recently seen walking out of the anti-anti-graft regional office in Kisumu. The man is said to have been fed up with the ‘open’ corruption in the county government abetted by his boss. His handlers hinted that he clashed with the governor soon after the August 8, 2017 General Elections over the mismanagement of billions of taxpayers’ money. The county boss has since then sidelined him in the running of the devolved unit. POLICE officers working in a station within Ruaraka Division in Nairobi have accused a senior officer of engaging in corruption. The man gives his juniors, who are mostly traffic officers, daily ‘bribe collection targets.’ Further, he has an appetite for young and naive women officers who he undresses at will without caring about their marital status. Recently, he embarrassed his juniors in public after he rudely rejected their greetings. "Munanisalimia kwani leo ndio mumeniona?" The man is the most feared officer in the entire area having engineered the transfer of at least seven officers who rejected his advances. A governor of a county in Mt. Kenya region recently reconciled his two secret lovers in a city hotel. The two female politicians – an MCA and a former woman representative – have not been seeing eye to eye since they discovered they were sharing the governor. The governor called the two ladies to the hotel which he apparently owns and ordered them to accept the reality and stop feuding. The governor is said to have taken the action after the MCA threaten to spill the beans to his [governor’s] wife. The county boss had allegedly started sidelining the first term Jubilee MCA.