The Stanbic-sponsored National Sevens circuit draws to a close this weekend in Mombasa with the Driftwood Sevens tournament at the Mombasa Sports Club. After six weeks of big hits, spectacular tries and nerve-racking plays, log leaders KCB require 13 points to be crowned National Sevens champions. KCB won the Kakamega, Dala and Christie Sevens legs with Mwamba winning Kabeberi and Prinsloo. The bankers are in Pool 'A' and open their campaign against Administration Police before tackling Quins in a tricky match. They wind up their preliminary matches against Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology. Despite Mwamba banking on arithmetics, KCB Sevens coach Dennis Mwanja says they are determined to capitalise on their 10-point lead to seal the crown. “The boys are psyched up and ready to go all the way. We are looking forward to a competitive tournament,” he added. Nakuru, who lie third on the log with 83 points, headline Pool 'B' and have a date with rivals Menengai Oilers, Blak Blad and hosts Mombasa RFC. Mitch Ocholla's charges lost last week to KCB 12-7 in sudden death final and will be hoping to go one place better after making to the semifinals in four of the five tournaments.  Key players for the side will be Monate Akuei, Oscar Ouma, Nelson Oyoo and playmaker Geoffrey Ominde. Impala lead the charge in a tricky pool that has Nondies, Strathmore Leos, and Northern Suburbs. Coach Oscar Osir said there can be no margin of error in this highly competitive pool and believes his charges are relishing the challenge. “We were in the semis, last week and I hope we can go one place better in Mombasa this weekend. However, we intend to take one game at time," he added. Stanbic Mwamba, who lie second on the log, have a date with Homeboyz, Kabras, and Mean Machine in Pool D. Kevin Wambua's charges are hoping the bankers can stumble in their charge to the title. Wambua will rely on the talisman Collins Injera, Joel Inzuga, Lutui Arturo and Ombok Otieno. The two-day tournament will be aired live by Bamba Sport. Winners of the circuit will pocket Sh500,000 with the second-placed team going home Sh300,000 richer. Third placed team will get Sh150,000.