Mandera Governor Ali Roba has urged the top 15 female students in last year's KCSE exam to be good ambassadors of the county and Kenya in general. The students won full scholarships and are set to travel to Turkey next week to begin their studies. On Wednesday, Roba hosted them for a farewell luncheon in Mandera town and urged them to go out and excel. They will pursue Medicine, Engineering, Architecture and other science courses. The programme, the first of its kind in northern Kenya, is geared towards improving girls education in courses dominated by boys. "We urge the students to seize the opportunity to complete their studies and come back to serve the people of Mandera. May I take this opportunity to wish the girls all the best in their studies and the new challenge ahead,” he said. "I want to challenge you to always strive to do your optimum in your studies. Always remember your background, where you come from and the myriad of challenges we are faced with. This should be the biggest motivator in your studies." The county chief said they will continue to prioritise education as a means of improving living standards. "We need to stay committed to our individual and collective roles to turn around the sector. There are no two ways about it." Roba said his administration will continue improving access to equitable, quality and relevant education at all levels, including technical and vocational training centres. The county is seeking partnership programmes and has signed an MoU with Uskudar University to jointly work on educational and cultural initiatives. In March, a delegation from the county, led by Education executive Izzudin Abdullahi, Roba's wife Hodhan Ibrahim, chief officer Yussuf Dibo and communications director Habiba Ali, visited Istanbul to finalise their admission. They visited universities to negotiate with their officials and establish, among other things, the most suitable study environment. In 2014, the county established a bursary fund board to support bright students. (Edited by F'Orieny)