  The killing of elderly men by the younger generation has been cited among top security concerns for the Rabai community. Speaking during an event to mark the World Peace Day in Rabai on Saturday, Kaya Kamba elder Erastus Kubo said they were being targeted by young people who want to inherit land and other property. He said the elderly people were living in fear. At least five elderly people were killed between January and May. Among them were Bobo Pandao ,60, and Dzuya Angatsi, 68, who were on May 6. “Elderly people in Rabai and other parts of Kilifi have taken refuge in safer houses after being accused of harming their communities with hexes. The accusations are baseless because we know they are being targeted due to land and inheritance. The youths look for short cuts to own property,” Kudo said. The community said the killings could disrupt peace and order in the community and cause social disintegration. Residents called on the government to end the senseless killings. The event was organised by the Kenya Community Support Centre in collaboration with the county government of Kilifi. Kubo also said Kaya Forests in the area were experiencing wanton destruction and asked local administrators to save the heritage of the Rabai community. “Loggers are having a field day in our Kayas. We have reported this to chiefs but nothing has been done. This is threatening our peace,” Kubo said. KECOSCE programmes officer Suleiman Hassan said the area would soon face the wrath of nature if deforestation was not be controlled. Kilifi gender, youth and sports executive Maureen Mwangovya said the county had launched a policy to address the concerns of the elderly. “We need to increase and not reduce our forest cover. Rabai used to be the epitome of peace but that is not the case anymore. We need to regain that status. Rabai also has the highest number of girls aged between 10 and 14 who are pregnant. This is not good for us. We need to change,” Mwangovya said. edited by peter obuya