The proprietor of an Embu school has been prosecuted for ferrying 22 pupils in a seven-seater car and operating the school without a license. Jonah Ireri Njeru, the proprietor of Jota Upper Hill Academy in Kathagari village in Embu North subcounty, was on Friday charged with operating the school without a valid license in Embu law court. He was also accused of operating the institution without meeting the required standards against the law. A multi-agency operation led by the Embu North deputy county commissioner Jeremiah Tumo visited various schools to ascertain that they have attained the required standards and hygiene for the pupils to learn. Njeru was arrested at his school after the inspection team discovered that he was operating the school with more than 200 pupils without a proper registration license. The toilets were also found to be in deplorable condition. He was found using a seven-seater Nissan Sienta to ferry the pupils from their respective homes to school. He denied the charges before senior residents magistrate Jean Ndengeri, together with the driver of the car. Njeru was charged that on September 26 at Kathangari in Embu North, he was found operating a school with more than 200 pupils without a valid license from the Ministry of Education. The driver, James Nyaga Njeru, was charged with ferrying excess passengers (22  pupils) on Nissan Sienta registered as KCE 823N. Njeru was released on Sh500,000 bond with a surety of a similar amount while Nyaga was released on Sh50,000 bond with a surety of similar amount or Sh40,000 bail. The case will be heard on October 8. Tumo said the crackdown will continue to ascertain the safety and comfort of pupils. Chiefs and their assistants will go around schools within their areas and give a report on them, he said, those found to have violated the law will be closed down and owners arrested. The crackdown follows an order given by the government following the death of eight pupils after a classroom collapsed on them at Precious Talent Academy on Ngong Road in Nairobi.