Kenya Ports Authority (KPA) will beef up their playing unit ahead of the inaugural Basketball Africa League (BAL), according to coach Sammy Kiki. Coach Kiki said this is an international tournament and the team will have to prepare adequately if they have to make it to the next round. He said he needs a reliable play-maker and two post players to boost his offensive onslaught in the tournament. “I need a good guard to work with Keegan Oyugi at the backcourt, a centre and a forward to score and rebound,” he revealed. BAL league will throw off in November and the reigning national champions will square it off with Madagascar. “I do not know much about our opponents in this tournament but all I know is that they will be no pushovers,” he said. Madagascar should pose the biggest threat as their 3on3 team won gold in the just concluded African Games. “We will prepare well for the championship. What I am waiting for are the dates to be released then I will draw my programme.” He added: “Knowing the exact dates is important because I will discuss with the management and see how well we can plan our training. Three weeks will be ideal.” Kiki expressed his concerns about the fixtures in the premier league, saying the team can’t afford to be without a game in an over a month. “Right now we have not had a league engagement. Our last match was a month ago and this is not good for our team chemistry.” “Lack of matches and playing time is really affecting my new players because they can’t pick upwell due to lack of continuity,” he lamented. KPA, he disclosed, will be in Nairobi this weekend for one game against Equity Bank on Sunday. Their last away fixture will be against leaders Thunder. Kenya Basketball Federation (KBF) secretary Vitalis Gode said BAL is a serious event on the continental calendar and KPA needs to do well. “KPA have been grouped in the Maritime Zone alongside clubs from Djibouti, Mauritius, Madagascar, Seychelles and Comoros. He said KPA have a strong chance to move to the next phase of the event and join the preliminary round of this lucrative show. A total of 48 teams divided into eight groups will start the race that will culminate in the final four in Kigali, Rwanda. The host cities for the event are Cairo (Egypt), Dakar (Senegal), Lagos ( Nigeria), Luanda (Angola), Rabat (Morocco), and either Monastir or Tunis (Tunisia).