AFC Leopards coach Andre Mbungo is worried of his blunt striking front ahead of their third Kenya Premier League match after playing Kariobangi Sharks to a barren draw yesterday. Leopards, who are yet to score in the new season after losing 1-0 to Kakamega Homeboyz in their opener, are set to play another win-less side Wazito in their next match in Kakamega and Mbungo wants to concert his attention in fine-tuning the blunt claws. The 12-time champions struggled to edge Sharks who are also win-less after sharing spoils in their last two duels during a match staged at the Moi Stadium Kasarani and Mbungo is looking to take his goal-shy attackers through more thorough drills to end their wait for a maiden win. Despite having the services of the 2016 league top scorer John Makwatta and Paul Were on the pitch, Leopards staged a lacklustre performance in the first half but dominated the final one courtesy of the double substitution at half-time. Mbungo rested an ineffective duo of Ismaila Diarra and John Wonder for Hansel Ochieng and Austin Odhiambo who added vigour to the forward line. Mbungo said: “We deserved to win the match but we were not at our best in the final third. We haven’t scored yet in the season and we have to work on our striking front before we play Wazito next weekend. The match will be at Bukhungu and we have to prepare and give our fans something to smile about.” The Rwandese coach ruled out succumbing to the pressure after going for two matches without a win and called on Ingwe faithful to rally behind the team and be patient. “It’s too early to start pointing fingers and blaming the club for not giving their best. We have two points and the league toppers have four which means if we win our next match we will close the gap. It doesn’t mean we are worse off now that we have dropped four points. I am sure we will find our winning formula.” While Mbungo regretted on the dismal performance by his strikers, Sharks coach William Muluya was equally frustrated with his charges for not taking their first-half chances. “We would have won the match had we taken our first-half chances. We created three clear cut scoring opportunities which would have won us our first three points had we converted. Nonetheless, I am happy with the way we managed to contain their pressure in the second half. Leopards had a good game after making the two changes but we defended well.” At the Kenyatta Stadium Machakos, KCB who began the season with a 3-0 win over Sony Sugar failed to spark again after playing Zoo Kericho to a barren draw.