Thirdway Alliance’s Punguza Mizigo Bill currently before county assemblies appears more likely to be embraced in areas friendly to Deputy President William Ruto. The Ekuru Aukot-led Bill registered its first victory on September 3 in Uasin Gishu county, a region considered to be the political backyard of the Deputy President. Notably, the ward reps overwhelmingly endorsed the Bill just days after Kapsaret MP Oscar Sudi- a close ally of Ruto warmed up to Aukot and appealed to the region to support Punguza Mizigo Bill and reject the Building Bridges Initiative. The Bill however seems be headed for tough times in counties where ODM leader Raila Odinga enjoys massive support. Raila has been urging Kenyans to instead support the Building Bridges Initiative, a product of the famous handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and him. Siaya county, the bedrock of Raila was first to reject the Bill and the former Prime Minister has even urged neighbouring assemblies to follow suit. Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka has also urged county assemblies to reject Aukot’s Bill Even so, a section of legislators from Mt Kenya region allied to Ruto- though from Uhuru’s backyard- have declared their objection to the BBI. Aukot on his part has downplayed the outcome of Siaya, saying proper procedure was not followed. He argued that the bill was supposed to be tabled as a motion and not as an ordinary bill because it is external. “As far as we are concerned, the Bill has not been debated in Siaya. It was not even put to vote,” he stated. He claimed that some leaders are now intimidating MCAs and that some speakers are not keen on tabling the bill. “Like the county of Isiolo, some members complained to us and we contacted IEBC to find out why the electoral body had not sent the Bill only to find out it had done so,” he claimed. He regretted that there are leaders who are playing politics with the whole issue. “This is the Constitution of Kenya. It is not something to play politics with. MCAs are supposed to debate the Bill on demerits or merits of it,” he added. Speaking to the Star, Aukot said he is scheduled to visit Marsabit, Kilifi and Tana River counties to popularise the Bill. Sudi, while addressing his constituents, appealed to other political leaders to join Aukot and support his bill if they have the interest of Kenyans at heart. "We should put our differences aside and support Punguza Mizigo because that is what will help Kenyans get value for their money," the MP said. Meanwhile, 15 MPs from Mt Kenya last week announced that they are opposed to the BBI saying the outfit main agenda is to create seats for rich political rejects. The BBI team is currently writing a report following the conclusion of public participation. It is expected to present recommendations to Uhuru and Raila before October 23. It is expected that BBI will come up with a report that will rival the Punguza Mizigo Bill. During BBI’s public participation, expanding the executive to accommodate election losers emerged as a hot topic. Those calling for creation of more positions at the top argued it was the way out of violence which is experienced every election cycle. Ruto however indicated that he would oppose the BBI report should it propose an expanded executive. His argument is that Kenyans should not go to a referendum to create positions for certain people.