Harambee Stars left-back Erick ‘Marcelo’ Ouma is angling to ditch his current club, IF Vasalund, in the Swedish third-tier league before the end of the year. The versatile player, who was arguably the most outstanding at the Africa Cup of Nations, joined the club in July last year alongside Emerging Stars’ winger Ovella Ochieng. Marcelo revealed he is keen to move to either Portugal or Spain where he has had offers and according to him, it is just a matter of time before he cements the deal on his next destination. Known for his pace and dribbling skills, the Kakamega High School alumni broke to the limelight in 2016 after Gor Mahia secured his services from the former national secondary school champions. Despite being inexperienced at the top flight, he broke into the starting team, dispensing Ugandan left-back Godfrey Walusimbi and was named the young best player in his maiden season with Gor. Ouma launched his professional career the following year, joining FC Kolkheti Poti of Georgia where he was later joined by Amos Nondi and James Macharia previously of Gor and Tusker respectively. Ouma reunited with his former coach at Gor,  Jose ‘Ze Maria’ Ferreira last year in February after signing for Albania's FK Tirana. However, his stay at the cash-strapped Albanian side was short-lived as he exited after five months into his contract alongside the then Gor captain Musa Mohammed and Kenneth Muguna— all cited lack of pay. Ouma, who is currently in the Stars team gearing up for the Uganda friendly, said his agent had been approached by clubs from Portugal and Spain and hopes to move at the end of the current season, which ends in October. He did not also shy away from remaining in Sweden should a top tier club show interest in his services. “I have had good moments with IF Vasalund and I think my stay will come to an end at the end of the season. Playing in Europe is not easy but through hard work,  I am glad my agent has received offers from Portugal and Spain. I think I will make the decision once the season is over. I am also looking at signing for another club in Sweden.” Meanwhile, the player said he is under no pressure to slot in the defence against Uganda after first-choice left-back Abud Omar failed to turn up for the friendly match. “I can play any position on the pitch depending on where the coach deploys me. I am not under pressure to revert to the defensive flank now that Abud is not around.”