It's said that women are kinder and gentler than men, especially politicians. However, partisan women are mirroring their male partisan counterparts and exchanging barbs — and broadsides. On Monday, Garissa Women Representative Anab Gure of Inua Mama tore into Team Embrace, accusing them of personalising issues instead of bettering Kenyan's lives. Anab criticised leaders who spoke over the weekend in Garissa for attacking National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale instead of engaging the residents on issues that affect their lives. “Speaker after speaker used most of the time to attack Duale in his own backyard. It seems they came purposely to attack Duale and for no other reason," she said. “We need to stop this hypocrisy one and for all and stop misleading Kenyans by taking them for a ride. Inua Mama supports TantaTanga and Deputy President William Ruto; Embrace supports Kieleweke, President Uhuru Kenya and ODM's Raila Odinga's peace pact. As an example of how passionate she is, last week during an Imua Mama meeting in Tharaka Nithi county, Gure sensationally claimed that she will name her unborn child after Ruto. She said she has done great work in national development. In a video that has gone viral, she is heard saying she is ready to "take a bullet" on Ruto's behalf. When asked about it, she defended her words, saying, "From where I sit there is no politician who can match the DP in terms of his popularity and development record." Back in Garissa, Gure said on Monday that the Embrace team purports to be for peace and development but their words show they are far from it. She lashed out at her Wajir counterpart Fatuma Gedi who was the de facto Embrace team leader during the Garissa meeting. She said it was ironic that she was talking of embracing yet failed to do so. “It is in public domain that Gedi and legislators from Wajir are not in the good books. How does she come to Garissa to talk of unity when she is not practising the same?" she asked. She said that Inua Mama led by Alice Wahome (Kandara MP) has a strong plan on how to uplift women. During the Garissa meeting, more than 30 women leaders said they support the handshake and said they want to help the President achieve his goal of uniting Kenyans by working closely with former Prime Minister Raila Odinga. In July, the  Inua Mama team was in Garissa where they repeated that their focus was on how to empower women and youth at the grassroots who have fewer economic opportunities. (Edited by V. Graham)