Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko has asked leaders to stop sparking unnecessary tension and speculations over the ongoing graft probe against him by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission. He said that leaders should focus on development projects instead of concentrating on speculations and bringing in unnecessary tension in Nairobi. "Let leaders focus in the right thing instead of speculations. Operations at City Hall have been ongoing and nothing has hindered the county government's projects," he said on Saturday. Sonko, who was joined County and National Government officials and elected leaders in Nairobi to mark the World Clean-Up Day at the Ruai open air market, also said that rumors of hiding were baseless. "My focus is on development and I will not want to involve Nairobi residents in my problems if there are any," Sonko said. He said he is proud of what his administration has achieved in the last two years, promising to do more this financial year. Barely two weeks ago, The Nairobi Jubilee MCAs quashed rumors that there was panic or any looming crisis at City Hall. "Governor Sonko is in office and everything is in order. He has not been charged nor should people pre-empt that he will be charged as it has been reported in the media,” said Abdi Hassan Guyo, Majority leader. The MCAs said that EACC should be left to do its work and conclude investigations. Last week, Sonko refuted claims that he had gone into hiding for almost a week for fear of arrest, but said he had deliberately kept away from City Hall. The Governor said he made a personal decision to stay away from his City Hall office so as to avoid being accused of interfering with official records that might be used as evidence in ongoing investigations. “This is also precisely why I have maintained total silence on the matter of EACC (Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission) investigations even after several fake news reports by media houses as I do not want to issue any statement pre-empting or jeopardising the EACC investigations, its findings or final report,” Sonko said on his Facebook social handle. WOMEN SUPPORT In addition, a section of Nairobi women leaders and youths have come out to support Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko's leadership. High court advocate Karen Nyamu has defended Sonko's development track record, noting that the governor has overwhelmingly done well. Karen who is also a member of the Nairobi Water Company Board says that the governor has done well in terms of infrastructure and more so in empowering women and youths in the county. "He has done over 100kms of roads, fixed the mess in our city hospitals but more importantly, Sonko has involved women and youths in his development programs," she said. Karen said that the beautification programme and the monthly clean up exercise has seen many youths and women being employed. "These programs have been youth driven and women too have been involved," she said. She urged the county to expand budgetary allocations in the environment sector so that more women and youths can be employed. The city based lawyer advised the Governor to keep serving city residents without feeling intimidated by ongoing investigations by EACC Other women leaders also showed support to the Governor. "As women leaders in the assembly, we are satisfied with what the Governor has done and our support for him is unstoppable" said nominated MCA June Ndegwa "We will develop more laws that can help the Governor absorb more youths and women in development because he has shown that he cares for these two groups" said Nominated MCA Silvia Museiya. "We know that Sonko will overcome his challenges so let's keep supporting him" said Nominated MCA Mary Njambi.