France will establish an Animation and Game design school in Nairobi next year, in time to tap into the billions projected in the sector. According to Africa Digital Media Institute managing director Laila Macharia, the global animation market is projected to be $270 billion by 2020. Speaking during Alliance Française’s 70th anniversary in Nairobi on Friday, France ambassador Aline Kuster-Menager said this will be a huge step in creating a partnership between industry and training. France is recognised globally for its expertise in the sector. The project will involve Rubika, a leading French institution in animation, gaming and interactive digital media, and ADMI, a Kenyan creative media and technology training institution. René Denis, the Audiovisual Attaché for East Africa at the French Embassy, told the Star in an interview that having spent three years building the foundation of the project, and there being an MoU, the project is ready for take-off. During President Emmanuel Macron’s visit to Kenya in March this year, Rubika School of Talents and Digital Creation, and Admi signed an MoU with the French Agency for Development on the CreaTech Animation and Game Lab project. The project, according to the MoU, includes a joint curriculum in animation and video game and support for the launch of mentorship and project incubation in cultural and creative industries field. The curriculum that will be put in place will help in having African content in the industry. “This programme will be open neighbouring East African states as well,” Denis said. He said the first intake will start by January 2020. “For 2D animation, 24 students will study for 24 months and graduate with a degree. For game design, we will equally have 24 students study for 12 months and graduate with a certificate. It will be affordable,” Denis said. To ensure sustainability, Denis said there will be mentorship, incubation centres and absorption in production companies. Denis, however, insisted the Kenyan government has to bring something on board because “its support is key”. Kenny Bahati, a Creative manager in Nairobi, said, "The school will help nurture new talents because the learning institutions [of this kind]  are not as many and I'm sure France will give a lot of professional input." "The are creatives looking for employment and so the school will provide employment," he added. He also noted that the gaming industry is bigger than the filming industry, and  the financial impact of such an investment will be felt across East Africa. Culture CS Amina Mohamed said they will work with France and in particular Alliance Françaiseto to sychronise what they have been doing to improve the creative industry. Noting the market size has expanded exponentially, Mohamed said the government will work towards supporting the industry, sponsor creative activities and artistes and invest in art.