Rising Stars attacking midfielder Chris Owino has promised to repay playing time with a goal when they face Tanzania today in a second Cecafa U-20 Pool B match at the Fufa Technical Centre, Uganda. Stars launched their hunt for the regional title with a 5-0 win over Zanzibar and will have their bid to qualify to the quarters put to test by Tanzania, who humbled Ethiopia 4-0 in their opening match. Owino, 18, was an unused substitute against Zanzibar but the FC Talanta midfielder who is touted as the next big thing, is keen to quench his thirst for playing time with a goal in a bid to give coach Stanley Okumbi selection headache in the midfield. Against Zanzibar, Kariobangi Sharks and Harambee Stars forward Sydney Lokale stole the show—netting four goals while AFC Leopard’s Austin Odhiambo scored the fifth goal. “The opener was relatively easy but I feel Tanzania will be a good test. They won convincingly against Ethiopia and we have to take them seriously for us to book a place in the quarters and also send a message to the rest of the participants. I did not get playing time in the first match but I am hoping to start today and help the team qualify to the next round with a match to spare. Should the coach give me the opportunity, I will try my best to score,” said Owino. The diminutive player, who earned his first call up to the team in 2016 while at the International School of Kenya, made a return as Okumbi named his final squad last week. Prior to the team’s departure, Owino who featured for both Wazito Youth and the senior team before joining Talanta last year hinted of using the tournament to bridge his European dream. “While in school, we visited Spain in 2013 and the experience was unforgettable. "I am looking to give my best in Uganda and hopefully, the tournament will enrich my profile and shorten the journey to Europe. "I was called up to the national team in 2016 but I was young hence was dropped on the eve of the departure to South Africa where we were to play test matches. "I have gained experience in the last four years and I hope at the end of the championship, I will also be considered for the U-23 team, Emerging Stars.” 