MPs are pushing the government to adopt an appropriate insurance scheme to compensate victims of human and wildlife conflicts. The lawmakers dismissed as discriminatory the current system where crops and property are not covered. They spoke at a meeting with members of the Task Force on Human-Wildlife Conflict Compensation Scheme headed by former Inspector General of Police and Tourism CAS Joseph Boinnet. Members of National Assembly Environment Committee poked holes in the current scheme, saying it has failed to address the plight of victims. The task force has the mandate to collate, collect and compile relevant data and information on existing compensation schemes that the government can adopt to enhance human/wildlife co-existence. The team has had consultative meetings with relevant stakeholders including community representatives and elected leaders and was presenting their preliminary findings to the committee yesterday. The Boinnet team has visited Maara, Laikipia and Amboseli. According to Boinnet, most communities where the conflict is rampant are unhappy with the slow pace of compensation and the delayed response by the relevant government agencies. “Communities want faster response to reported incidences especially human injuries for the victims to be taken to hospital to save life; and human death for the immediate families to be consoled,” Boinnet said. “The list of animals causing problems is not exhaustive on the WCMA 2013 Third Schedule; while crops and property are not categories on payment amounts.” MPs Chachu Gaya (North Horr), Benjamin Washiali (Mumias East), Ong’ondo Were (Kasipul), Michael Kingi (Magarini), Robert Pukose (Endebess), Patrick Musimba (Kibwezi West) and Sophia Abdi Nor (Ijara) told the Boinnet team to consider having an insurance scheme for the victims. “Compensation is becoming a nightmare to the victims. It is time your task force consider putting an insurance scheme to help these victims,” Sophia said. “We must review the compensation forms, the way they are structured is not friendly to victims,” Pukose said. Ong’ondo urged the government to prioritise fencing parks to mitigate the conflict between wildlife and humans. 