Those who want to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta will have to wait before being endorsed by Kikuyu elders. The elders on Saturday said they were not in support of any candidate, saying those already fronting themselves were doing it without the community's blessings. Kiambu county elders chairman Nditu wa Gitau popularly known as OJ dismissed claims that Mt Kenya people have been divided in support of some leaders declaring themselves to take over after Uhuru. Gitau said elders are not political and their objective was to ensure locals are focused and remain united. "We want to remain united and we support leaders who are already in office. We shall wait until President Uhuru gives us political direction on who will succeed him" Gitau said. "Otherwise, we do not support anyone who has declared interest in that seat because we respect Uhuru." He spoke at the installation of retired chief Gitau wa Thiong'o as a Kikuyu elders King at Nyamweru secondary school field in Lari constituency. He was accompanied by Nyandarua Governor Francis Kimemia, Kiambu deputy governor James Nyoro, MPs Jonah Mburu (Lari), Peter Mwathi (Limuru), Kiambu woman representative Gathoni Wamuchomba and Lari Kirenga MCA Joseph Karichu. Former MPs at the event included Dennis Waweru (Dagoretti), Mburu Kahangara (Lari) and Kilemi Mwilia (Embu). Mwathi dared the leaders who have already started politics ahead of 2022 to tell Kenyans what they have done, instead of playing political gimmicks and propaganda. Mwathi added that Uhuru's government was firm and focused on fulfilling pledges he made to Kenya's during the last general elections. "We know too well about the Big Four Agenda and the war on corruption. Uhuru must leave a legacy and are entitled to support him" Mwathi said. Kimemia urged locals to be prayerful for the country, leaders and themselves, saying the country has the potential to grow if all aspects that affect people are addressed. "Before 2013, Uhuru was faced with a case, and people wondered where we would get some to take over after retired President Mwai Kibaki. In the process, Uhuru became the president" he said. Wamuchomba urged the country not to make a mistake of considering to vote for a person who will cause ethnic tension. "We do not want to go back to where we were some years ago. Remember, a wound that healed has scars which remind people the pain they underwent" she said. "Let us be focused and listen to our President as well as the advise from our elders."