Last week, an opinion poll was released by a group calling itself the New Africa Advisors on the performance of governors between 2013 and 2018. The group was concerned with, among other things, the extent to which devolution has transformed the life of the people and how it has improved service delivery. Kenya has been independent for over 50 years now. The time period warrants asking the extent to which the government has managed to transform the lives of its wananchi. But to ask whether, in a mere six years, devolution has managed to transform the lives of the people is a little bit presumptuous. In any case, a more objective way of knowing the extent to which socioeconomic transformation has occurred is to look at data published in economic surveys, household and demographic surveys and standard of living indices. In any case, given the mere six years of experience with devolution the much fairer question is to ask whether devolution has improved the delivery of services to the people in terms of efficiency, cost-effectiveness and quality. For example, has the delivery of health services improved in the villages using those three criteria since the advent of devolution? Has this improved or diminished the positive perception of the citizens towards devolution? Bringing current county bosses into this study without considering whether they are first or second term governors also betrays some ignorance of the Kenyan political system. From 2013 to 2017, Trade CS Peter Munya, for example, was Meru governor. From September 2017 to date, my friend Kiraitu Murungi has been the governor. How then does one heap all the responsibility of "transforming the lives of the Meru people between 2013 and 2018" on governor Kiraitu and give him a score of minus 15? By the way, this is the first time that I have seen a performance measure that prescribed retrogressive performance. In my case, for example, the lives of the people of Kisumu deteriorated by negative six under my watch. This means that whatever my predecessor did is heaped on my shoulders. In other words, "a plague on both our houses" as Shakespeare would say. But seriously, the Auditor General every year carries out a very thorough audit on how governors use public money to finance development, operations and maintenance and then decides to give us adverse, qualified or outstanding performance in the use of public resources. Adverse means the performance has been really bad even when some roads and toilets may have been built here and there. Looking at the negatives in this opinion poll, over 50 per cent members of the Council of Governors should have been given adverse opinion by the Auditor General consistently since 2013. The truth is that they were not. Where, then, does this leave New Africa Advisors? I decided to Google New Africa Advisors to find out the extent of their professionalism in public opinion survey. This what I found. Google "New Africa Advisors" then comes the message "View Our Page". You click on this and you get the following: "The page you are looking for is not found. The page you are looking for does not exist. It may have been moved or removed altogether. Perhaps you can return back to the site's home page and see if you can find what you are looking for." What does this tell us about this outfit? I persisted to look for these folks, typing in "New Africa Advisors Objectives" This now led me to a page which was a little bit more interesting. But it was not from a homepage. It said the following. "With stronger political leaderships" (this is bad English; the correct word should be "leadership". But let us continue with what they say: "upsurging performing economic rates," (what the hell does this mean?) "and fast-paced urbanisation (I suppose they meant to say "rapidly growing urbanisation" in simple English), "African countries form the world's youngest economies and as such, hold significant  growth prospects  for investors." Phew! Edward Carey Francis used to tell us that, to write a good essay, one should do it in simple English with short sentences. He was right. After that long convoluted sentence, I could not continue to try and decipher the objectives of New Africa Advisors or, to put it differently, what their mission is. This wordy and lengthy statement on the importance of focusing on African economies as unique entrants into the world stage may seem superficially impressive but is far from being expressive. I guess that summarises the rather immature attempt by New Africa Advisors on scoring governors’ performance by a survey instrument which seems to have been dubitable from the very beginning. I then went further to check on the address of this organisation and when it was started. It happens that it was incorporated in London in 2015 and has an address in London. But this address is shared by many other Africa advisory related companies focused on a variety of concerns, ranging from infrastructure to entertainment and rural development. Would these be "hit and miss" so-called "expert advisers" out to impress gullible Africans with a London address? Just a thought.