Internet Solutions has invested Sh 20 million in setting up a Cyber Threat Intelligence Centre that aims to help companies to monitor, analyse and respond to evolving cyber threats. Operating on 24/7 daily basis, the centre will provide a real-time cyber security service tailored to each company, based on Internet Solution’s cross-industry expertise. The move is meant to help companies operating in Kenya and in Africa to develop a risk-based, proactive cyber resiliency strategy that will help them prevent, detect and respond to cyber-attacks within their IT environments. The company will be looking to invest an additional Sh 30 million in the next 12 months in expanding the facilities and hiring more cyber security engineers. “We understand how expensive and complicated monitoring, analysis and response capabilities needed to keep businesses safe can be, especially with most companies being under pressure to do more with less.  Therefore, our threat intelligence centre has been set up to help our clients to be cyber resilient in a cost-effective way,” said Dr. Bright Mawudor, Internet Solutions Head of Cyber Security Services. Cyber attacks are increasingly becoming coordinated and sophisticated, with cyber criminals targeting specific organisations, regions and customer profiles. To prevent potential financial, reputation and operational impairment occasioned by the increasing cyber threats and attacks, organisations in Kenya and worldwide are being compelled to implement early detection controls to safeguard their IT assets. Kenya’s cyber security threats increased by 167 percent to 10.2 million from 3.8 million detected in the previous quarter according to the Communications Authority’s quarterly report released in April this year. Within the same period, 12,197 cyber threat advisories were issued within the period to the affected organisations, marking a 91 per cent increase from the advisories sent out to affected institutions in the previous quarter. “We offer a broad range of cyber and managed services that will help you tackle the ever-changing risk landscape. Whether its threat monitoring, threat intelligence, data protection, incident response and more, we have certified engineers with vast experience in identifying potential gaps in your security controls as well as identifying any unknown attackers on your network, ”Dr. Mawudor added. According to Mawudor, there is no way to completely protect a business from a determined attacker, so it is critical to provide continuous monitoring to protect your organisation. However, understanding the risks to your business, and knowing who might attack you, and why, play a key role in preventing financial or reputation damage from a cyber incident. “Our threat monitoring managed service works by leveraging the client’s existing security investments, consuming their output into our state-of-the-art analysis platforms, and correlating and combining them to identify risks beyond the capabilities of their individual technologies. Our unrivalled delivery capability operates 24/7, combining our specialist team’s experience and knowledge of your business to review and mitigate potential threats before they have an impact,” Mawudor emphasised. Cyber Threat Intelligence (CTI) services help to inform an organisation of potential and current cyber-attacks to their applications and infrastructure.