Its week 5 for our four judges on East Africa’s got talent and this week its all about what makes you different. We saw some amazing singers and beautiful dancers and even got another golden buzzer moment! The second in the series so far. The first act that made an impression was the spectacular girls group Classic Kats. Unlike other contemporary or even African dance groups we have seen on the show the girls in this group gave us a fun and unique jazz inspired dance. Using chairs as props, their routine was a sensual celebration of the genre and while there is room for improvement, it was clear to see their talent. The group who made it to the next round were a breath of fresh air and a joy for all jazz lovers! Give em the ol razzle dazzle ladies! I look forward to seeing more of you. Another fantastic and unique dance group came in the form of the Machakos Secondary School for the deaf who’s choreography, passion and talent proved to us that being differently abled should never stop you from enjoying what you do. Music is in all of us and they displayed that beautifully. This episode also showcased some amazing singing acts, something that has been missing so far. The first act was Hoziyanna Peace from Rwanda who took on quite possibly the hardest song to cover. Whitney Houston’s I Will Always Love You Is known around the world as one of the greatest ballads of all time and for talent shows is often used to showcase an impressive vocal range. While Hoziyanna started off very strongly, her attempt at the crescendo unfortunately fell flat, even garnering a number of red buzzers. However, one judge saws the potential in her and not only did she make it to the next round but was the proud recipient of the golden buzzer. The other singing act was the amazing trio the 97s who’s harmonies and stage presence literally brought every single woman in the audience to their feet. Their voices were fantastic, their harmonies perfectly balanced and their passion for their craft evident. I was enthralled by them and while Hoziyanna may have showed some talent, the 97s showed more technical talent and may have been a little more deserving of the golden buzzer. Lastly in what was quite possibly the best dance performance of the series was DNA from Kampala whose eclectic performance left both the audience and judges enthralled. They were the most entertaining, their movement and choreography spectacularly clean and timed perfectly in sync with one another. There is a reason that people say “Save the best for last” because they certainly did. What do we have in store for next week|? Make sure you don’t miss the next round of performances! And to make sure you don’t with Safaricoms Stori Ibambe promotion. Simply meet your daily targets and enjoy 200% bonus and 200MB YouTube access. Simply use *460# to check your targets.  