Deputy President William Ruto has accused the Building Bridges Initiative of being ridiculous and 'constitutionalising ethnicity'. Ruto accused the BBI of planning to create seats for five communities in the country and wondered where the other 37 communities are in the arrangement. Proponents of the BBI have been rooting for the introduction of a Prime Minister’s post, two deputy prime ministers a president and deputy president. The DP spoke in Nyeri where he toured Kariki ACK Church in Othaya and AIPCA Church in Narumoru in Kieni constituency on Sunday. He also addressed residents in Narumoru town. “Are we solving inclusion or are we entrenching and constitutionalising marginalisation and exclusion? We must be careful about what we do,” he said. The DP said Kenya belongs to all the communities. He said tribalism cannot be ended by making five positions but can only be achieved by forming a political party that will bring all Kenyans together. The party he said should also be in a position to field a presidential candidate from any community in Kenya. Ruto said the BBI team has been wasting their time going around the country saying Kenyans have no problem with the current Constitution. The DP said the problem is with former Prime Minister who does not accept defeat. He accused the opposition chief Raila Odinga of raising political temperatures in the country. The DP contributed Sh1 million from President Uhuru Kenyatta and another Sh2 million from himself in Kariki, while in Narumoru AIPCA he donated Sh1 million The Kariki ACK fundraiser was meant to construct a commercial building for the church and set up rehabilitation and education funds. Governor Mutahi Kahiga, Rigathi Gachagua (Mathira), Gichuki Mugambi (Othaya), Ndindi Nyoro (Kiharu), Anthony Kiai  (Mukurweini) Rahab Mukami (Women representative), Faith Gitau (Nyandarua), Kimani Ichung'wa, Nyeri speaker John Kaguchia and Wangui Ngirichi (women representative Kirinyaga) among other were present. The leaders pledged to support Ruto in 2022. Kahiga and Ngirichi also blasted Kirinyaga governor Anne Waiguru over her recent remarks that Mt. Kenya is ready for Rail’s presidency. They called on the governor to concentrate on issues affecting her county such as poor hospitals’ condition instead of purporting to speak for Mt. Kenya residents. They said every county have leaders who can speak for their residents.