From observing local and international leaders such as US President Donald Trump and Prime Minister Boris Johnson of the UK, there is a leadership crisis which we must solve or fall prey to a dictatorship like that of Adolf Hitler. With big power leaders like these and African presidents such as Yoweri Museveni and Paul Kagame, Africa and the world must have better leaders. People who think they can play with tin-pot dictators or benevolent dictatorship are playing with fire. But do we truly need and deserve leaders who are better than those we have today? The truth is most of the problems we have today have either been created for us by our leaders or they have failed to solve them and, therefore, don’t deserve their current positions of power. They should be replaced with others who are able to solve these problems. But while we need better leaders, it is difficult to argue that we deserve them because we are the ones who voted for them, putting them in positions of power in the first place. Despite electing bad leaders, we must do everything possible to remove them from power or we shall truly perish. Who then are those good leaders that we need and should elect to office? First, we must have a president who must never be a tribalist to divide and antagonise people. Second, we must have a leader who will completely abandon negative ethnicity as the ideology of our politics, economics, churches and mosques. Third, no president shall be corrupt, fail to fight graft or protect his friends and family from punishment for theft of public resources. Fourth, since we cannot live in a vacuum, we must have a president who, after abandoning negative ethnicity, must embrace the nationalism of our fathers as the ideology of our politics. Fifth, we must have a president who shall reject tribal leaders either from his community or others, nor buy their loyalty with money or jobs. Sixth, we must have a leader who shall distribute national resources evenly to every corner of Kenya. Seventh, he or she shall not consider himself or herself a god, accept human worship or allow desperate people to genuflect before him. Eighth, we must have someone who will redefine leadership to mean service not self-enrichment or ownership of the country. Ninth, we must have a president who shall not rule his people through fear and silence. Tenth, no president shall escape censure or removal from power for starving people, owning country, stealing taxes or keeping slaves. Eleventh, he or she should not consider those who criticize him or her as enemies. Thirteenth, no president shall flout or live above the law. Fourteenth, if they fail to do their duty, break the law or violate the constitution, they should resign from office or face the law. Fifteenth, no president shall mobilize security or intelligence services to suppress or destroy political opposition that has not broken the law. Sixteenth, no president shall deny any citizen work, protection or resources merely because they are in the opposition. No president shall deny opposition right or opportunity to serve their country, merely because they are in the opposition.