Kensington Distillers & Vintners (KDV) London, a premium drinks business with a growing foot-print in Africa has announced its entry into the Kenyan market. The firm which East Africa Breweries Limited(EABL) lost Popov Vodka distribution rights to, is coming in as 'Monument Distillers Kenya' , adding pressure on current market players in the lucrative alcoholic beverage sector. Sazerac, leading US spirits company, has granted Monument Distillers the distribution rights for its portfolio in Kenya with the most prominent brands being Popov Vodka, Southern Comfort, Myers Rum, Paddy’s Irish Whisky, Firewater, and Buffalo Trace Bourbon. As part of this transition, Monument will be distributing these products through their distribution partner Maxam Limited, a local liquor distributor in Kenya and East Africa. The entry of Kensington Distillers into the Kenyan market follows the successful launch of Monument Distillers Nigeria last year. Monument Distillers Kenya managing director Ellis Muhimbise said:“It’s a great time for us to take on this heritage brand, Popov Vodka.The vodka category is showing favourable growth as Kenya’s strong economic climate continues.” According to the 2019 International Wine and Spirits Report, the vodka category in Kenya grew 22 per cent annually from 2013 to 2018. “Our consumers and stakeholders can rest assured that Popov Vodka remains a trusted brand that will continue to contribute sustainably to the growth of the Kenyan economy,” Muhimbise said. Monument plans to build on the success of Popov Vodka in Kenya. “We are delighted to be given the opportunity to continue to grow the brand and for us to use our newly-formed Monument Distillers Kenya business to accelerate the growth of the international brands we have in our portfolio,” the MD said. In addition to representing Sazerac and KDV brands such as Bannerman’s Finest Scotch Whisky, Monument Distillers plans to launch a number of new international brands in the country. The firm has settled on Muhimbise who has has extensive regional experience having spent 12 years at SABMiller and then some time at AB InBev before joining Monument Distillers. 