  ODM leader Raila Odinga supports the parliamentary system of government as it is about creating institutions that guard against oppressive leaders. Raila dismisses the notion that the parliamentary system is about the executive. "We have been striving to create this through the Building Bridges Initiative and in many other forums. However, these efforts are hindered by a culture of hatred and fear perpetrated by certain leaders," he said on Tuesday during the launch of 'Presidential or Parliamentary Democracy in Kenya? Choices to Be Made', a book written by Kisumu Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o. Raila, who was the Prime Minister in the final term of President Mwai Kibaki's government, said the current discussions would not have arisen had the country adopted the Bomas Draft. “If we had adopted the Bomas Draft under the leadership of Prof Yash Pal Ghai, we would not be having these problems. You know what happened then and as they say the rest is history. We need to debate on the matter now to create an informed citizenry.” The Bomas Draft, crafted at the Bomas of Kenya Delegates’ Conference in 2005 proposed that the country should have a President, a Deputy President, and a Prime Minister. The system would not only allow individuals from smaller communities to rise to the highest office in the land but also encourage an inclusive system of power-sharing. The ministers, the document proposed, would be appointed by the President upon nomination by the Prime Minister from among members of the National Assembly, subject to the approval by the Senate. The book, which was launched at the University of Nairobi, roots for a parliamentary system of government. “I was talking to former UK Prime Minister Gordon Brown recently and he told me that a parliamentary system holds the government more accountable to the people. It is being embraced the world over,” the ODM leader said. Italy, Japan, Israel, India, Canada, and the Netherlands are among countries with a parliamentary system. "I want to recommend strongly what has been suggested in the book.” The launch was attended by among others Cabinet Secretary Raphael Tuju, Siaya Senator James Orengo, Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi, scholar Yash Pal Ghai, former MP Gitobu Imanyara and ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna. Kiraitu said a presidential system does not provide a conducive environment for devolution to thrive. “A parliamentary system is more supportive of devolution. It is not about the personality but the institution of the presidency. The presidency enjoys so much myth and sucks oxygen from other institutions of governance," he said. The governor said there is little Kenyans can do if the President decides to ignore the Constitution under the current system. "Kenya is still a tribal society and it's time we accept it. Presidential elections are a tribal vote and a primary source of conflict. Ethnicity becomes sharpened when we come to the presidential election," he noted. He said that governors want a system where the President is the head of state and a prime minister who will be head of government through their Ugatuzi Initiative. Nyong’o said the elite has chosen to ignore the Constitution to serve their selfish interests. “I propose a parliamentary system for very good reasons. The presidential system destroys parties and creates a one-man show that brings about sycophancy,” he said and hoped that the BBI and the Ugatuzi Initiative would propose the parliamentary system. “If we amend the Constitution, there should be an improvement. Examples abound how a parliamentary system works for the better of the people.” Raila said Cabinet ministers should be members of Parliament. “At the moment, CSs are just invited to parliamentary committees and MPs are there waiting to extort money.” The former PM said the country has gone through difficult moments and it is time to put in place conditions that will encourage the right leadership.