Members of various committees in the Kisii county assembly on Tuesday complained that their work has been hampered by lack of facilitation. The members said they have been unable to discharge their oversight roles due to lack of funds. They were making their contribution on a report on the operations of committees of the assembly of between December 2018 and June this year tabled by Liaison Committee chairman Davins Onuso. Leader of Majority Timothy Ogugu, MCAs Ibrahim Ombuya (Sengerera Bosoti), Samuel Onuko(Boochi Borabu), Denis Ombachi (Marani), and Samuel  Mirieri (Ichuni) said some committees failed to present their reports to Liaison Committee within the stipulated time because of lack of money. “Some committees did not submit their reports to the Liaison committee because they failed to meet the deadline because of the quorum hitches,” Ogugu said. Onuko said the executive failed to give its quarterly reports thus making it hard for the committees to discharge their duties. “The executive has been giving us hard time in discharging our duties because we have never received any report as required,” Onuko said. Mirieri said that they were unable to visit a school to see the progress on ECDE classroom due to financial constraints. “My committee was unable to visit schools to establish the progress made on ECDE classroom because of financial constraints,” Onuko said. In its report, the Liaison committee noted that some committee did not present their reports because of the various challenges they faced, including financial support. Ombuya and Ombachi said the electorate has the right to know what is happening in the county and thus it is important for the committees to be facilitated to do their work properly. Speaker David Kombo urged committees that failed to submit their reports to the Liaison committee to pull up their socks. “I am telling those committees that did not submit their reports to pull up their socks. They must adhere to the given guidelines,” Kombo said. Kombo reminded the members that facilitation has been a challenge because the Exchequer failed to release money to the counties in advance. 