  Bodies of three of four herders who were shot dead at Bulla Kampi in Isiolo South were on Tuesday evening buried in Benane, Garissa in accordance with Muslim rites. Mohamed Ibrahim, 35, Mohamed Yunis, 32, and Daay Dagane, 37 were shot by people believed to be bandits on Tuesday morning. Their bodies were recovered hours later. A fourth body was yet to be recovered. Lagdera MP Mohamed Hire was among leaders including several MCAs who attended the burials. Hire called on Interior CS Fred Matiang'i to end the "senseless attacks and killings" along the Isiolo-Garissa border. He said the Tuesday attack was one of many witnessed over the past year. The MP said there was a militia marauding the vast Isiolo-Garissa border armed with sophisticated weapons. The militia's targets are herders from Garissa county, the MP said. “For how long will we continue burying our loved ones who are killed fr no reason? All they are doing is searching for water and pasture for their livestock. Which language does the government understand best so we communicate to them to understand the gravity of the matter,” Hire said. He said area leaders had held numerous security meetings with top security officials including the CS, who promised to end the attacks. "Unfortunately, we are still witnessing innocent lives being lost in the hands of marauding bandits whose aim is to create animosity amongst our communities.” Garissa county assembly Majority leader Mohammed Gabow accused conservancy groups in the area for the killing of herders. During the Tuesday attack, armed militia opened fire on unarmed herders, killing two on the spot. Another two were killed while pursuing stolen camels numbering about 200. Garissa leaders have accused administrators from Isiolo of doing little to arrest the culprits and recover the animals. Northeastern regional police commander Paul Soi told the Star on the phone he was working with his Eastern counterpart to ensure the animals are recovered. He promised to have the culprits arrested. The clashed have been blamed on tribal politics, boundary disputes and the scramble for depleting resources.  edited by peter obuya