Former Prime Minister Raila has challenged Deputy President William Ruto to reveal the sources of his wealth to end speculations around him. Raila said Ruto has been everywhere dishing out large sums of money that is questionable. Kenyans deserve to know where the money comes from, he said. He spoke during the burial of former Transport and Licensing Board chairman Hassan ole Kamwaro at Eor Enkitok in Narok on Saturday. “These corrupt individuals have been conducting harambees every weekend by carrying large sums of money in bags they stole from Kenyans. Such individuals deserve to rot in jail for making Kenyans poor,” Raila said. He said the problems currently facing the country are a result of corruption. Millions of Kenyans who pay taxes are suffering and wallowing in abject poverty, he said. “These monies are meant for development to improve the lives of many Kenyans but it is sad that taxpayers' money ends up in the pockets a few greedy leaders,” the former premier said. He cautioned leaders to be wary of money offered by Jubilee, saying the ruling coalition had ill intentions. “The recent report by FBI is that Kenya is losing close to Sh800 billion annually through corruption and this is worrying and all Kenyans should unite and fight this impunity,” he said. The ODM leader said the same corrupt individuals have of late been trooping to Narok to buy wheat from farmers in a bid sanitize dirty money before the CBK deadline on September 30 on changing the old Sh1,000 notes. Former Vice President Kalonzo Musyoka, Environment CS Keriako Tobiko, Kajiado Governor Joseph Lenku, Interior CAS Patrick Ntutu, Devolution PS Charles Sunkuli, senators Mutula Kilonzo Jr (Makueni) and James Orengo (Siaya) attended the funeral. Other politicians were MPs Moitalel Kenta(Narok North), Patrick Makau(Mavoko), Junet Mohammed (Suna East), Waihenya Ndirangu   (Roysambu), David ole Sankok (nominated), former minister Ali Chirau Makwere and former Nairobi speaker Alex ole Magelo. On the Mau, leaders who spoke supported the ongoing evictions and defended CS Tobiko's move to restore the water tower. “The issue of Mau is not negotiable. We categorically state that people must move out of Mau for the sake of the country,” Kalonzo said. He said it was wrong for Rift Valley leaders to attack Tobiko on the Mau issue and profiling him, saying he is a government officer performing a function of the national government. Kenta said Maasai leaders will not shut up until the Mau forest was fully sorted out. He condemned the creation of a tea buffer zone in the forest to act as a forest cutline, saying it was illegal and accused a section of leaders from the Rift Valley of being beneficiaries of purple tea. Mutula said conservation of the Mau forest is not an option but must be protected by all cost. “We either conserve the Mau or we perish. As the Senate we support the move by CS Tobiko and all Kenyans to support the cause since effects of climate change are real,” he said. Lenku said CS Tobiko was not alone in the issue of Mau restoration but all Kenyans and the world support him.