Nandi Governor Stephen Sang has denied claims the county spent more than Sh30 million on a bonding retreat for county staff and MCAs in Mombasa. He, however, confirmed that the retreat had indeed taken place, but clarified that it was fully sponsored by the World Bank. The retreat for more than 150 staff ended on Thursday. There have been claims by a section of leaders in Nandi that the county government paid the bills. Senator Samson Cherargei on Friday differed with the governor, saying county funds were "misused" for the retreat at a time when the county government said it had no money for essential services like the purchase of drugs. Cherargei said he had seen an official communication from the county government indicating that the retreat was aimed at finding a working formula between the county executive and the assembly for effective service delivery. The governor, MCAs, county executives, chief officers, directors and other county staff were among those who attended. “The World Bank has done the same in 41 counties that have World Bank projects to train county teams on the projects they fund,” Sang told the Star. A senior employee at the World Bank declined to speak on the matter, saying he had no details on the issue and was not authorised to talk to the media. But Cherargei said the World Bank is never involved in funding recurrent expenditure exercises. He insisted that the money used was from the county government. “Let the governor explain clearly how the retreat was funded because I have information to confirm that county funds were used,” Cherargei said. He said he had received details from the resort where the retreat took place. The senator said that the high-end resort charges Sh15,500 for accommodation, breakfast, lunch and dinner per person. Another 4,000 is charged for conferencing per person. “This means that Nandi county staff spent at least Sh19,500 per day for each of its staff translating to about Sh97,500 for five nights at the facility, per person, if they were all booked on moderate rooms,” Cherargei said. He said expenditure could be more if some senior staff were booked in deluxe rooms and suites at the hotel. Cherargei said the county may have used in excess of Sh14 million on accommodation alone. “This amount does not include air tickets, per diem and payment for facilitators at the workshop,” the senator said. Cherargei said the governor travelled with his security detail, who included bodyguards, aides and personal assistants. “The retreat was a waste of taxpayers' money and a desperate means by the governor to manipulate MCAs so that they overlook their oversight role," he claimed. Sang and the MCAs have differed in the last one year over graft allegations and the MCAs passed a resolution to have 20 county staff, including three executives, sacked over graft allegations. “Nandi has no money to pay staff. Services have ground to a halt. Hospitals lack even basic medicine. Roads are in a deplorable state. But there is money to take MCAs to Mombasa to relax on the beach,” Cherargei said.  