President Uhuru Kenyatta on Friday led Kenyans in sending condolences to the family of the late and former Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe family. ODM leader Raila Odinga and former Presidents Mwai Kibaki and Daniel Moi also sent their condolences. Uhuru on Twitter described Mugabe as courageous, dedicated and a fighter who fought for his nation. "On behalf of the Government and the people of the Republic of Kenya and on my own behalf, I wish to convey our deepest sympathies and condolences to the Government and the people of the Republic of Zimbabwe following the death of former president Robert Gabriel Mugabe," he said. "In this moment of sorrow, my thoughts and prayers go out to his family, relatives and the people of Zimbabwe who, for many years, he served with commitment and dedication," Uhuru added. Uhuru described Mugabe as a freedom fighter, a Pan Africanist and an elder statesman. Kibaki said the loss of Mugabe was a total loss because it marked the end of an era. "I am saddened by the news of the passing on of Robert Mugabe, the founding President of independent Zimbabwe," he said "I send sincere condolences to the President of the Republic of Zimbabwe, Emmerson Mnangagwa, the people of Zimbabwe and more so, the family and friends of Robert Mugabe," he added. "His share of downsides aside, Mugabe, no doubt, stood for the greater good of Africa. His unrelenting quest for a free Africa stood out. In spite of the sentiments of those who serially vilified him," Kibaki said. Moi described Mugabe as a legendary fighter in dismantling bastions of colonialism in Africa. Moi recalled how Mugabe had suffered long prison terms in the then Rhodesia in his pursuit of freedom of his people and restoration of the dignity of the African personality. "Alongside such compatriots as Joshua Nkomo, Leopold Takawira, James Chikerema and Ndabaningi Sithole, Mugabe brought down the seemingly indomitable hardline and racist regime of Ian Smith " Moi noted. He said Mugabe had etched for himself a station of honour in the history of the struggle for the emancipation of the oppressed. Mugabe died on Friday at the age of 95 at a Singapore Hospital. Mugabe was ousted from power in a military coup in November 2017, ending his three-decade reign.