The government is today (Wednesday) expected to settle the Nkararo-Enooretet boundary dispute between Syria and Uasin clans in Transmara West, Narok. Deputy county commissioner Mohamed Noor said the two groups have been feuding for a long time and it is time the government tackled the problem once and for all. He said once they have clearly demarcated the border, the state will put up a new road that will act as the boundary for the two communities. "These people have been fighting for land since 1989 and we expected everybody to respect the government's move to settle the dispute. Those who will go against the clearly marked boundary will face the law for disrupting peace," Noor told the Star on the phone. He warned politicians who have been for fuelling animosity that their days are numbered. "We are pursuing a politician who is on the run and believed to be the main actor in the violence. We believe he is holding an illegal firearm, which he uses to cause animosity," Noor said. His warning comes at a time when police officers arrested 54 people in connection with the renewed boundary dispute on Monday. The suspects from Maasai's Uasin Gishu and Syria clans and Kisii community were arrested for allegedly inciting residents, funding clashes between the two communities, bringing unnecessary tension, breaching the peace and carrying illegal weapons. Noor warned youths against being lured by criminals into fighting one another. He called for calm. “The young people, who are still ambitious, should be careful not to be used by politicians pursuing their own interests because they risk not being employed when their fingerprints are taken to the DCI for investigations. A certificate of good conduct is required when seeks any kind of job,” he said. In July, four people — two chiefs and their assistants from Nkararo and Enoosaen locations — were arrested over links to the dispute. The clashes left 15 people injured in Nkararo village after two groups attacked each other with bows and arrows. (Edited by F'Orieny)