Nandi Governor Stephen Sang has forwarded the names of four new county executives for vetting by MCAs to replace those he fired last week over allegations corruption. The nominees are Drice Rono for Transport and Infrastructure, Philemon Buret for Lands and Environment, Grace Sugut for Education and Francis Sang for County Secretary. Last week, Sang said two executives Hillary Koech (Transport ) and Stanley Baliach (Lands and Environment) resigned. The governor sacked Education executive Valentine Chumo. The sacking sparked off a row with MCAs who claimed the governor was protecting some of those mentioned in corruption cases. In the changes, the governor reassigned a number of chief officers. Solomon Mang’ira moved to Lands, Sally Kemboi to Water and Sanitation, Phillip Towett went to Administration and Public Service, Paul Lagat moved to Health while Scolastica Tuwei went to Social Welfare. The county boss also nominated five people to the County Public Service Board . They are Ezekiel Kiplimo, Arusei Eliseba, Daniel Mwogoi, Jacob Sisey and Irene Choge. Some MCAs said Sang had failed to act on all those mentioned in a report by an ad hoc committee that investigated the graft allegations. The committee had recommended the sacking of 20 staff including the three executives. Education committee chairman Emmanuel Mengech along with his deputy Theresa Maiyo and Terik ward MCA Osborn Komen accused the county boss of protecting suspects, saying the county would lose money through corruption. “We wonder why the governor chose to spare some of those named instead of implementing the entire report as approved by the county assembly,” Mengech said. He said impunity was entrenched in Nandi and the governor was to blame for runaway graft because he did not want to act tough on those involved. Komen said the county government was failing in its mandate mainly because of graft and the governor should not take the matter lightly. Former Nandi County Council chairman Charles Tanui said residents were keenly watching Sang’s actions and he would be called to account come next election. “Elections will come and let the governor continue ignoring the people of Nandi at his own peril,” Tanui said. Tanui said residents were unhappy with Sang’s administration with no tangible achievements made since he came to office. Sang has however denied claims by the MCAs that he was protecting some of those named in graft. He said the DCI had already investigated and presented a group of staff for prosecution and their cases were ongoing. He said those who were not prosecuted had been cleared of any involvement. Sang said the sacked executives had been expected to provide leadership in their departments, hence the need for them to take political responsibility. “If they doubt my commitment to fight graft, let them show me any county where three CECs who were not indicted individually have been released from duty over alleged graft,” Sang said. He accused a section of leaders of using the media to spread lies about his administration. “The same people you quote claimed Sh13 million for bursaries was lost. The Auditor General's report indicated that there was no bursaries money lost and that the fund was properly utilised,” he said. While sacking the three executives Sang said he had initiated investigations into losses and graft in the affected departments. “This necessitated the changes and restructuring in my government in order to stay on course of our transformation agenda,” Sang said. The county boss said he had  promised accountability, efficiency and improved service delivery to residents.