The wife of Mombasa businessman and drug suspect Ali Punjani has sued the police over seizure and confiscation of valuables at their Nyali home. Karki Shushmija wants police to be compelled to return what they took away. Shushmija and two others were arrested during a raid at their palatial home early last month. The lawsuit is an indication that Punjani has made good his threat to sue the government over the raid aimed at getting evidence of drug trafficking. Punjani was away in India for treatment during the raid. He is yet to return. He accuses the government of infringing on his freedom and embarrassing him. In the matter before the Shanzu law courts, Sushmija has sued the Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai and the Directorate of Criminal Investigations. She is seeking orders to compel the police to hand over title deeds, money in foreign currencies, cheque books, logbooks, vehicle keys, laptops and passports, among others seized during the raid. “The seizure of valuables and confiscation of personal documents, money, title deeds, logbooks, cheque books among other valuables was a violation of my fundamental rights,” she says in the lawsuit. She maintains that the police action – on IG's instructions – including her arrest and that of her employees, were unlawful and malicious. Shushmija says she was not allowed to ascertain the items seized and that at the date of filing the petition, the police had declined to hand over the valuables listed in an inventory. The inventory was signed by among others the police and her lawyer, Japheth Asige. Further, Shushmija is seeking a declaration that the confiscation of her assets and valuables is illegal and a violation of her right to protection from deprivation of property. The matter is listed for interparty hearing on Friday after Shanzu resident magistrate Davis Odhiambo, ordered the petitioner to serve the respondents. The raid was overseen by the then county police commandant Johnstone Ipara a few days after Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i toured the region. Others listed as respondents are Nyali subcounty police commander Simon Thrikiwa, Patrick Lumbasi, Noah Sangut, Lilian Mutuku, Anthony Muriithi, Josphat Kisingils and Solomon Gachia.