A military spy recounted how he drove a trader and a woman accused of the attempted murder of former Garissa county finance executive Idriss Mukhtar to different spots in Nairobi a month before the incident. The officer (name withheld for security reasons) told magistrate Francis Andayi he drove Mohamud Adan and Juliet Njoki with two other men from Blue Hut Hotel in Ngara to South C on July 14 last year before the alleged shooting occurred. The witness, led in his evidence by assistant DPP Catherine Mwaniki, said he drove the two in the company of two other men to South C and then dropped the latter two at City Stadium on the way back. The two men included David Mwai who allegedly committed suicide at the Parklands police station. Mwai had been allegedly hired to kill Idris Mukhtar and died in police custody. Mukhtar was shot twice outside a mosque in Kileleshwa, Nairobi, on August 19 last year. The officer informed the court that Adan, a former colleague at KDF, had requested the officer to take him to South C where one of the two men would show him a friend who had conned him of his money. Upon arrival, they did not find the alleged conman and returned to the hotel in Ngara before they proceeded to Blacky’s Restaurant in Kilimani. The court heard that Adan was driving his car in the company of Njoki while the military officer drove alone headed to Kilimani. In the restaurant, Mwai and the other man joined them and Adan ordered drinks and food for them. Mwai and the other unidentified man left at around 9pm and Mohamud followed them. The officer said Adan called him severally the following days but he was not interested because Adan was not following his advice to work with police to trace the man who had conned him. “I later got curious when I read of Adan’s arrest in connection with this matter in the media, because I knew him and had met Njoki,” the spy told the court. Mohamud and Njoki have denied attempting to kill Idris Mukhtar, former Garissa county finance executive, on May 19,2 018 in Kileleshwa, Nairobi county. The two also have denied another charge of conspiring to kill lawyer Charles Kanjama, an offence they allegedly committed between July 1 and September 27,2018 in Nairobi county. At the same time the the magistrate allowed DCI to change to the new currency over Sh400,000 old notes recovered from one of the accused persons.