Stray Lions’ Jay Mehta believes the arrival of three professionals from India is the beginning of their long road to stardom following a nerve-racking win over Nairobi Sikh Union in the Nairobi Invitational Cricket 50 Overs league. Lions recovered from a batting collapse in as many games to defeat Sikh Union by two wickets in pursuit for 70 at Peponi School on Sunday. Mehta believes the victory will give the team the confidence needed to perform better in the rest of the tournament and hopes the arrival of Shushil Sharma, Shabbir Shaikh and Durvesh Sanjay will be an inspiration enough. “It was good as this was a much-needed win for us, we have been waiting to start the campaign for some time so it’s good to get off the mark this way,” he said. “We had some plans in our meetings and they paid off with the ball. Our batting was a problem for us though and I think it has been a problem for some time now.” “We have to bat longer in the middle we have to remain competitive in this league. Our batting was poor as we once again collapsed so we need to do better." The hosts struggled to put on any partnerships-losing wickets at regular intervals before the lower order show from Paarthi Dixit (11) and Bansi Patel (10) saved them from the joys of defeat. The two put on an eight wicket stand of 15 runs after they had been reduced to 53 for 7 in 11.2 overs. The skipper, however, saw some positives in his sides bowling saying the bowlers did a commendable job and set up the pace for the opening victory. Gurleen Singh was the chief destroyer for the home team with 4 for 12 in 3 overs. “We knew that the ball would move and we didn’t have any option but to defend, so that was the plan and thankfully we managed to keep taking wickets,” he said. “Shabir Shaikh was the main man and he was probably the man who changed the game. He did really well especially considering this was his first match for the team. He did really well considering he just arrived in the country on Friday. He enjoyed every moment on the pitch and gave us the platform for the win. I think this win is a really good one for us and gives us confidence going forward.”