Robert Mugabe, Zimbabwe's first post-independence leader, has died aged 95. The former president has died at a Singapore Hospital. Mr Mugabe was ousted from power in a military coup in November 2017, ending his three-decade reign. Zimbabwe's education secretary Fadzayi Mahere tweeted: "Rest In Peace, Robert Mugabe." He was born on 21 February 1924, in what was then Rhodesia. He was imprisoned for more than a decade without trial after criticising the government of Rhodesia in 1964. In 1973, while still in prison, he was chosen as president of the Zimbabwe African National Union (Zanu), of which he was a founding member. Mugabe's early years were praised for broadening access to health and education for the black majority. But his controversial land reform programme sparked an economic collapse and his latter years were marked by rights abuses and corruption. His successor, Zimbabwean president Emmerson Mnangagwa, expressed his "utmost sadness", calling Mr Mugabe "Zimbabwe's founding father" and "an icon of liberation". Mr Mugabe was born on 21 February 1924, in what was then Rhodesia. He was imprisoned for more than a decade without trial after criticising the government of Rhodesia in 1964. In 1973, while still in prison, he was chosen as president of the Zimbabwe African National Union (Zanu), of which he was a founding member. Once released, he adopted a militant stance, heading to Mozambique and directing guerrilla raids into Rhodesia. But he was also seen as a skilled negotiator. Political agreements to end the crisis resulted in the new independent Republic of Zimbabwe, elections for which were first held in 1980. Robert Mugabe - key dates 1924: Born Later trained as a teacher 1964: Imprisoned by Rhodesian government 1980: Wins post-independence elections 1996: Marries Grace Marufu 2000: Loses referendum, pro-Mugabe militias invade white-owned farms and attack opposition supporters 2008: Comes second in first round of elections to Tsvangirai who pulls out of run-off amid nationwide attacks on his supporters 2009: Amid economic collapse, swears in Tsvangirai as prime minister, who served in uneasy government of national unity for four years 2017: Sacks long-time ally Vice-President Emmerson Mnangagwa, paving the way for his wife Grace to succeed him November 2017: Army intervenes and forces him to step down.