Nairobians will give their  views on the Punguza Mizigo Bill on Tuesday and Wednesday (tomorrow and Wednesday)i It is expected to be the first county where public participation has been scheduled before an assembly vote. The assembly suspended debate to allow residents to first give their opinions on the Bill by Eukue Aukot of the Thirdway Alliance bill to slash spending on elected representatives. It calls for reducing the number of representatives in Parliament from 416 to 147, and to reduce the burden on taxpayers by other means. At least 24 count assemblies u8st approve it before the Bill is submitted to Parliament. The assembly's Select committee on Justice and Legal Affairs will oversee the public participation in six zones and present a report to the assembly. The committee has invited all stakeholders any representations or views on the Punguza Mizigo Bill 2019. On Tuesday, the venue for residents of Stahere and Mathare subcounties will be Kariokor Social Hall. For Roysambu, Kasarani and Ruaraka subcounties the forum will be at Kahawa West Market parking. Still on Tuesday, residents of Embakasi East, West, Central, South and North are to give their views at Umoja One ward grounds. On Wednesday, residents of Makadara and Kamkunji subcounties will meet at Jericho Social Hall; Lang'ata and Kibra residents are to convene at Karen Social Hall and residents from Westlands, Dagoretti North and South. After the forums, the committee will then write a report on the participation and present it to the assembly for deliberation. Acting Speaker Chege Mwaura has said he wants a different process in Nairobi "We don't want just to reject or pass the bill like some other counties. We want to hear what Nairobi residents have to say. As elected members and the people's representatives, we think it is prudent to get their input," he said. Last week during a fundraiser at Kayole, Majority Leader Abdi Hassan Guyo said that the Jubilee MCAs are also against the bill. Guyo had earlier distanced himself from giving the party's stand on the bill. 'The bill has both good and bad things but it does not have the interests of the people. How can a county like Nairobi with a population of more than three million people be equal to a county like Lamu?" he asked. Guyo said the bill will be rejected when it comes to the house. His counterpart Elias Otieno, who is the Minority leader, said the bill was dead on arrival and the ODMand other opposition reps will officially reject it on the floor.  Last week, the County Assemblies Forum (CAF) called for the suspension of debate on Punguza Mizigo Bill in all county assemblies to allow public participation. The lobby has also asked the county assemblies to ignore other initiatives such as the much-talked-about Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) and the Ugatuzi Initiative. CAF Secretary General Kipkurui Chepkwony on Wednesday said the suspension was vital to allow the public to air in their views through efficient public participation. He said by ignoring other debates, it will give time for the people to look into the Punguza Mizigo Bill and make a final decision on the way forward. "In light of the ongoing debates on the constitutional amendments and the impending referendum, we have resolved that the county assemblies should ignore other initiatives to avoid bringing confusion to Kenyans," Chepkwony said. Chepkwony, who is also the Nandi County Assembly Speaker said all the assemblies should aim to complete public participation by October 11. "As CAF,we will have a sitting on October 11 to take a common position on the Bill and also consider views from the public," he said. Uasin Gishu County Assembly was the first and the only one so far to have approved the Bill while four other assemblies have rejected it. (EdiResidents to give views on Punguza Mizigo ted by V. Graham)