The recent change of guard at Kenya Rugby Union (KRU) seems to have come with goodies as leading beer manufactures’ Kenya Breweries Limited signed an improved one-year sponsorship deal. Yesterday, KBL through their Tusker brand, announced Sh115m sponsorship, one of the biggest deal the union has signed in the recent past since losing their mega-deal with SportPesa. However, the new sponsorship doesn’t come without conditions and the union will need to account for every single cent. And to ensure these conditions are followed, the union has acquired the services of the international auditing firm, EY  to manage their finances. According to KBL Managing Director Jane Karuku, the new partnership could be the start of another long term relationship with the rugby as long as there will be accountability. Karuku said Tusker will continue investing in sports especially in rugby “As we gear towards celebrating 100 years, we want to be involved in several sports and rugby should be in the frontline. I want to ask the chairman and his team to ensure every cent is accounted for going forward,” Karuku added. From the Sh115m, Tusker will invest Sh20m in Safari Sevens. Karuku said they want to take the tournament back to its glory days. This year’s edition will be held between October 18th and 20th and ten teams have already confirmed their participation. Tusker will also invest another Sh10m in the Kenya Sevens rugby team, becoming their official shorts sponsors as well as another Sh2.5m in the women’s team, Kenya Lionesses. Another Sh7.5m will be used for International fixtures for the Kenya 15s side. In March, Odour Gangla was elected as the new chairman for the Kenya Rugby Union and it is reported that the leadership at KBL has been impressed by the recent changes at the union. Gangla was also grateful to KBL for coming on board at the time the union was struggling financially. “We had a great Sevens Circuit which was one of the best-organised tournaments in the recent past, thanks to Tusker who were very exceptional,” he noted. After a successful national Sevens series, rugby action moves to Nakuru, on September 21, where the Kenya Simbas will host Zimbabwe in their last fixture of the 2019 Victoria Cup, with the Safari Sevens slated for the October 18-20.