Harry Maguire’s first touch of the ball had just been met with a chorus of boos by the Leicester City fans when they launched into another rendition of their new song. “F**k off Maguire, we don’t need you, we’ve got Soyuncu’. And so it continued right up until the moment in the seventh minute when Caglar Soyuncu made an ill-judged attempt to nick the ball off Marcus Rashford’s toes in the penalty box and sent the Manchester United striker crashing to the turf. It was a close call, some might say harsh, but VAR backed up referee Martin Atkinson’s decision. Rashford bucked the recent trend at United by converting from the penalty spot and Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s side were on their way to a welcome win. For Soyuncu, it was an unfortunate moment to make a mistake after an impressive start to the season as Maguire’s replacement at Leicester.  The Turkey international, instantly recognisable by the long, curly hair and white wristband, has slotted into central defence alongside Jonny Evans to help soften the blow of his former team-mate’s £80 million move to United. Maguire, meanwhile, could have been forgiven for allowing himself a little smile. The vitriol from his old supporters soon subsided as they decided it was probably better not to push their luck any further. Leicester manager Brendan Rodgers had been phlegmatic about Maguire in the build-up to the player’s first game against the Foxes since his summer move to Old Trafford where he increased his pay packet to around £200,000-a-week. “When players get the opportunity to go to one of those clubs and to experience that type of pressure and expectation – and of course there will be a financial side to it as well, where you can go and double your salary - then that package, in a short career and at Harry’s age, is perhaps too hard to turn down,” said Rodgers. “I understand that, I get it.” Evans, too, knows enough about life at Old Trafford to appreciate why Maguire was so keen to join United. ‘I think it was a move that made sense,’ said the former United defender earlier this week. “I think with the money Man United really wanted him and he wanted to go. He and Man United are a perfect match and he’s exactly what they need at this moment in time.” Inevitably, the Leicester supporters have been a little less understanding. Football is like this, of course. We wouldn’t have it any other way. Heroes become villains for leaving in search of bigger salaries and a greater chance of success—although you could argue United and Leicester are on a par at present based on the Premier League table and the evidence of this match.  What is forgivable in other walks of life is deemed unforgivable in the world of football. “One greedy b*****d,’ they sang again at the start of the second half, and revelled in the moment when Jamie Vardy muscled Maguire off the ball and fired a low pass across the face of goal.\ United fans responded by roaring their approval minutes later when the England man stole the ball off Demarai Gray and then Ricardo Pereira. The noise level would have been even greater had Maguire’s header from Ashley Young’s corner in the 57th minute found the corner of the net and not the arms of goalkeeper Kasper Schmeichel. Privately, the 26-year-old will probably be happy this game is out of the way. He came through it unscathed and United have the three points when perhaps one would have been a fairer reflection of the game. Maguire can expect far worse when he returns to the King Power Stadium on the last day of the Premier League season in May. The Leicester fans won’t have forgotten by then – although they may think twice before singing that song again.