Kisumu OCS Henry Simiyu has been told to explain the failure to arrest and prosecute Gem MP Elisha Odhiambo over an alleged assault case. The Ombudsman's office has given Simiyu 21 days to show cause why he has failed to act on the matter. Odhiambo allegedly assaulted Maurice Ochieng alias Don Pablo over a Facebook post on June 6. In a letter dated August 9 by the Commission on Administrative Justice, the OCS has been directed to indicate steps the police has taken to administer justice to the complainant. Ochieng through his lawyer Jared Sala lodged a complaint to the commission last month about the delay to arrest and prosecute Odhiambo. The commission through senior legal officer Amelia Otono wants police to explain the delay in forwarding the MPs file to the ODPP for arraignment and prosecution. The Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions has also written to the Kisumu county police commander Benson Maweu to act on the complaint forwarded to them by the Ombudsman on behalf of the blogger. A senior assistant DPP in Kisumu, Victor Mule wants Maweu to forward the inquiry file of the case for further action. Odhiambo was on July 4, captured in a video slapping the blogger after he stormed his place of work accusing him of posting malicious information about his arrest on Facebook. He was later interrogated and released. Ochieng, under the Facebook pseudonym Don Pablo, said that the lawmaker had been summoned by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission over corruption allegations. He said he had seen the MP enter the EACC's Western region office. Ochieng said he had also made a similar post about Kisumu assembly speaker Onyango Oloo and both drew comments. Later that day, however, he received a call and was threatened for maligning the MP, he said. “I told them the MP was at the EACC because I saw him enter the commission's offices. So, if at all it's wrong to give information, let me pull it down. I immediately did that,” he said. Ochieng said he received numerous calls and decided to phone the lawmaker to get clarification. MP Odhiambo did not return the call. Ochieng, therefore, sent him a text message saying, "I've heard that you're looking for me. Can we meet?" “After a few minutes, he arrived where I was breathing fire. He and his bodyguards attacked and assaulted me. After that, I went to the Central police station, recorded a statement and was told by the police to go to the hospital for further examination,” Ochieng said. He said he has never interacted with the MP and questioned why he resorted to the assault. “There is a video clip doing the rounds on social media of how I was assaulted by the MP,” he added. Both Ochieng and Odhiambo spent the better part of the evening recording statements at the police station. The lawmaker later left without addressing the press. He was shielded by his security guards as he entered his car. (edited by O. Owino)