The ongoing investigations into graft allegations involving Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko have taken a new twist. This after it emerged that some of the firms believed to have bribed him to win the lucrative tenders at City Hall started doing business with him long before he became the governor. Sonko is said to have received Sh20 million from the firms and awarded them tenders worth Sh357 million for garbage collection at City Hall. At the center of investigations are Toddy Civil Engineering Company Ltd and Hardi Enterprises Ltd, which are associated with businessman Antony Mwaura. Already, Sonko has recorded a statement at the EACC offices in Nairobi where he is said to have told investigators the money was purely for  business purposes and had nothing to do with the county affairs. Toddy was awarded a Sh424 million by the Ministry of Water for the rehabilitation and expansion of Kwale Water Supply and Operation Improvement Works in September, 2018. Sonko reportedly told the investigators that piping for the project cut through his land and which Toddy acquired from him – thus the wiring of the money. Documents seen by the Star show that Toddy Limited, through Mwaura’s personal account, wired Sh1 million to the governor’s account as part of the payment for the parcel in Kwale. Sonko is said to have told the investigators grilling him that the money that was wired to his Equity Account – 1132250323 - on April 19, 2017, and that it was meant for the purchase of the land. The investigators are seeking answers on whether money wired to Sonko’s account in 2017 had any bribery links to a garbage collection tender that was awarded to Hardi Entreprise Ltd, a company owned by Mwaura. A credible source at EACC who sought anonymity due to the sensitivity of the matter, said Sonko provided evidence showing the company had started wiring the money to his account before he became governor. He further added that on December 17, 2018, Sh3 million was wired to Sonko’s Equity Bank Account from Toddy Civil Engineering Company. “The documents in our possession indicate on April 7, 2017, the same company deposited Sh600,000 to Sonko’s account and Sh1.5 million in the month of May. Preliminary investigations show Sonko had nothing to do with bribery since he took oath of office,” the source said. Last Tuesday, EACC detectives grilled Sonko for more than eight hours at the Integrity Centre. Insider say the governor contemplated stepping aside seeking to pave way for investigations. On Thursday evening, after a stint at KRA offices, Sonko was categorical that he would weather the current storm that he has dismissed as a witch-hunt driven by cartels that have not found space to trade at City Hall.