Ford Kenya has reached out to Wiper Party counterpart to support its candidate in the Kibra by-election slated for November 7. Wiper will not be fielding a candidate in the poll but it had indicated that it would support a candidate from one of the coalition partners-Ford Kenya, ODM or ANC. Wiper Party leader Kalonzo Musyoka yesterday met with his Ford Kenya counterpart Moses Wetangula and the two leaders discussed possible areas of cooperation. "Ford Kenya and its leadership stood by our candidate in the Embakasi South by-election and we cannot take it for granted. My brother hood with senator Wetangula started in 1980s when I joined politics,” noted Kalonzo. Ford Kenya Kibra parliamentary candidate Butichi Khamisi, the party's deputy leader Richard Onyoka and Kwanza MP Ferdinand Wanyonyi were present during the meeting. The two agreed on a formula to have the Ford Kenya candidate endorsed officially on a later date. Wetangula assured the Wiper party of victory in the Kibra by-election. "Our candidate is the strongest and from the all gathered information I can assure my brother Kalonzo that this Kibra seat is no more a dream and we will carry the day,” said Wetang’ula. Kalonzo refuted claims on social media that he had already endorsed a candidate from one the coalition parties. He said the picture doing round of him and a candiadate was taken long ago. IEBC cleared 23 hopefuls, seven of whom will be contesting as independent candidates. Wiper chairman Chirau Mwakwere had earlier said the party leadership is closely monitoring unfolding events in Kibra with the view of picking a candidate whom they will campaign for ahead of the November 7 poll. Mwakwere said they will consider several factors when deciding whom the party will support, noting that they got a lot of support from Ford Kenyan and ANC. During the April 6 poll, Wiper’s Julius Mawathe was declared winner after garnering 21,628 votes against his closest challenger, ODM’s Irshad Sumra who managed 7,988 votes.