Gender CS Margaret Kobia said women will ask for 50-50 representation in Parliament if there's a referendum. Kobia was speaking during a stakeholders; meeting on Friday ahead of the 12th Commonwealth Women's Affairs ministers meeting in Nairobi this week. The meeting began Monday and will end on Friday. The gender boss said Kenya is still struggling in Parliament with implementation of the two-thirds gender rule. "If there is any review of the referendum, we should say we are not talking about two thirds, we are talking about 50-50. That is now the kind of message that we are passing. Why should it be one-third,  why can't it be 50-50?" she asked. "The two-thirds rule is also a principle we are trying to implement, we are still struggling but so long as you have a target, then you keep focus." The meeting is held every three years by the 53 member states first started in Nairobi in 1985. The meeting gives a platform to officials, activists and other stakeholders to discuss how to create a better future for women. Kobia said Kenya has made remarkable gains in women leadership, women's economic empowerment, ending gender violence and gender and climate change. However, living in a patriarchal society, she said women were still being held back when trying to make changes. "The law that ties our hands is cultural, whenever we want to make a change, we are reminded of patriarchy," she said. "Cultural bonds continue to hinder women in making progress and taking charge and control of our own lives." Nevertheless, she said, the country has developed legislation and policies that have transformed the socio-economic and political landscape especially for women, girls and other special groups faced with marginalization. "Key among these is Vision 2030 that aims to make Kenya a middle-income country... women and girls are also expected to play a critical role and of course to enjoy that status of the vision," she said. The CS also the Big Four agenda will enhance equality and empowerment. "We must always ask, to what extent will the Big Four support gender equality and women's empowerment? To what extent are girls and women also seeing opportunities as a result of the Big Fur?" she said. "The Big Four  will boost economic empowerment because we are targeting manufacturing, which means the creation of jobs, universal health coverage, enhancing food security and nutrition and supporting affordable housing." Kobia said affirmative action funds such as the women and youth enterprise funds have enabled women to be economically empowered. When seeking political seats, Kobia said women are likely to face stereotyping, gender violence and financial constraints. She added they are denied a chance to in at the most influential positions and make key decisions. Despite failing to implement the two-thirds gender rule in parliament, the CS said the number of women appointed in senior positions had increased. (Edited by V. Graham)