Injury-hit Bandari welcome Zoo Kericho today at the Mbaraki Stadium, Mombasa seeking their first win of the 2018-2019 Kenya Premier League season. Bandari, who finished runner up last season, opened the new season with a barren draw against Mathare United while Zoo had a flying start, thumping Chemelil Sugar 3-1 at the Kericho Green Stadium. The dockers will have to do without the services of the striking duo of Benjamin Mosha and Abdallah Hassan who picked injuries during their Caf Confederations Cup match against US Ben Guerdane of Tunisia last weekend. Despite missing the two, coach Bernard Mwalala who hinted on unleashing his Burundian goalkeeper Justin Ndikumana since signing from Sofapaka is self-assured of a win. Ndikumana, who kept 13 clean sheets last season, is yet to earn playing time but Mwalala lifted the lid on his readiness for the match. “The local league is always tough and we have to play our normal offensive game. "Zoo have nothing to lose and we have to ensure we get the three points at the end of the day. "Zoo have young and talented players and to be honest, we are under pressure to win the match. I have instructed my players to be cautious and avoid the mentality of an easy win now that we will be playing at home. We will miss Mosha and Hassan but that’s not a blow to us, its an opportunity for other players to prove something," he said. He added: “Ndikumana has adapted to our philosophy and I am happy he is ready to play. There is a possibility of making changes in the goalkeeping department and have him start ahead of Michael Wanyika.” The former Nzoia Sugar coach at the same time revealed on the injury status of his centre half Bernard Odhiambo tore his Anterior Cruciate Ligament (ACL) in April last year and according to Mwalala, he is expected to return in a months time. “Odhiambo is doing good and we expect him back in a month time. He has been doing light training but we do not want to rush him before he fully recovers. His injury forced us to bring Sothenes Idah from Kakamega Homeboyz as well as bring more competition in the defence which in turn will seal all loop holes.”