The Independent Police Oversight Authority received more than 12,000 complaints about police officers and operations since it was established in 2012. Ipoa Commissioner Praxidies Tororei says most of the cases were from members of the public against police officers but there were also cases received from the officers themselves complaining against violations within the police service. Tororei said Ipoa had opened additional offices to ensure that it serves the public and the police effectively. They are in Eldoret, Kisumu, Nakuru, Meu, Nyeri, Wajir, Lodwar and Mombasa. She said many of the cases had already been handled in the best way to ensure justice for all Kenyans. She was speaking in Eldoret during a thanksgiving service for the disciplined forces and their families. The service was held at  St Mathews Catholic Church where new Uasin Gishu County Commander Johnstone Ipara was present. “Since Ipoa was established we now have a more improved working relationship with the public and the police officers because there is better understanding of our work as a commission. The misunderstanding that existed before is no longer an issue," Tororei said. She said Ipoa's mandate is to receive complaints and investigate them after which they recommend action where necessary. The commissioner was said the key mandate to hold police officers accountable to encourage professionalism in the police services. “From the officers we receive complains about injuries or death and other issues as a result of police action or inaction," Tororei said  She said they had also received some complaints on rape and gender-based violence. The public has largely been complaining about the failure by police officers to act on reported matters. Issues outside their mandate are reported to the police Internal Affairs Unit or the EACC. Tororei said the Internal Affairs Unit in the police force which also receives similar complaints but where the unit does not or cannot act, Ipoa usually takes over. The Ipoa commissioner said they were faced with a shortage of funds to enhance public awareness of the role of Ipoa and to open more officers. Tororei said many police stations still lack facilities to operate effectively and Ipoa had written reports on the problem, expecting action by the Inspector General of Police. (Edited by V. Graham)