The meteorological department has put Murang’a residents on notice over impending landslides as the short rains start. Murang’a director of Meteorology Paul Murage has said the county will start experiencing heavy rains from October 9. Murage noted that the rains will continue until December 15 and will be enough to grow crops. He, however, noted that tea zone areas that border the Aberdare Ranges may experience earth movement, which has in the past caused deaths. Last year, six people were killed in landslides, while 596 were displaced. Three families whose lands were completely destroyed in Mathioya subcounty are still living in a camp as they await relocation by the national government. Murage urged locals to prepare and take caution, warning those living in the upper areas to be on the lookout for fault lines. “Murang’a is one of the counties that are affected by landslides in every rainy season and those living in hilly areas should be keen,” he said, noting that any changes on the ground should be immediately reported to the authorities. He appealed to locals to report any incidences of freshwater springing out of their farms, especially where there are no rivers nearby. Unusual cracks on the ground are a sign of earth movements and could result in landslides when the soils are saturated with water, he said. In May this year, a tea farm was swept away by a landslide in Kimandi village in Gatanga subcounty. The landslide also swept away a pit latrine after the area experienced heavy rains, sparking fears of water-borne diseases in the area. Murage also asked farmers to prepare their lands for planting noting that the rains will be enough to grow crops to maturity. “Every part of this county will be experiencing over 400 millimeters of rains which is sufficient for crops to grow,” he said. He, however, noted that those living in low areas may not get good harvests as their lands  may flood. Areas such as Miriira, Kambirwa and lower Gatanga are most susceptible to floods due to their plain topography, he said. The director asked the County disaster management team to be ready for any occurrences and initiate community awareness forums while mapping out possible risk-prone areas. He also asked the team to stop all quarrying and mining activities during the month of November. He appealed to the national government to ensure all roads are appropriately marked to avert accidents that may be caused by poor vision caused by rains. Murage also pointed out that collection and delivery of milk, tea and other agricultural produces may also be affected and alternative measures should be identified. “I am also asking farmers to heed the government’s directive to take advantage of the rains to plant more trees and increase the country’s forest cover,” he added. 