More than 2,000 patients from Malindi benefited from a free medical camp organised by Kilifi county in partnership with Kenya Society for the Blind and Insurance Regulatory Authority. The medical camp held at Cleopatra grounds offered free cancer screening, eye screening, dental care, nutrition, general illness and lab services. Hundreds of patients with different ailments flocked the grounds from early morning and queued to get the services offered by medical personnel from Malindi Subcounty Hospital. Those with physical challenges were given priority and did not line up. Kilifi Health CEC Anisa Omar said the idea was aimed at reaching out to thousands of residents who live in the grassroots. "Our aim is not only to offer free treatment but to detect people suffering from killer diseases such as diabetes, high blood pressure and cancer," Omar said. The CEC said a team of doctors and clinical officers drawn from various facilities in the county converged to set up an integrated camp to assist patients to get treatment. She, however, said a majority of those living in rural areas die because such diseases are not detected early for medication to be prescribed. Kenya Society for the Blind executive director Juliana Kibasu was also present the medical camp which cost Sh4 million. She said they have a five-year plan to carry out the medical camps nationally to bridge the gap in accessing healthcare services in the grassroots. "Malindi medical camp is the first to be conducted and from the registration, we shall go beyond the target of 2,000 patients,'' she said in an interview. Kibasu urged residents to take advantage of the medical camp including those with complicated cases who will get referrals to get more advanced services at the subcounty hospital. Peris Kasichana, who is physically challenged from Kasumbiji village, said despite walking for long distance to access free medical care, she is hopeful that her problems will be addressed so she can regain her strength and walk normally. Elizabeth Macdonald, a resident of Malindi, hailed the organisers of the camp saying many poor residents benefited. She said many people cannot access cancer screening services and general illness due to poverty. Edited by R.Wamochie