When Betway came into Kenya in 2015, it marked the beginning of an exciting journey for the online sports betting brand in Africa. A brand that since 2006 was well known in Europe for its contribution to sports development while providing authentic gaming experiences which now include casino, betgames, virtual games and jackpots. Having started its Africa journey in Kenya, Betway is now operational in five other regulated markets in Africa; these are Ghana, Uganda, Zambia, South Africa and Nigeria.  The Talent Search One of the signature initiatives that was run by Betway in Kenya was the 2016 Betway Talent Search. The Search hosted 1600 aspiring footballers from across the country and tested their skills under the watchful eyes of local and international scouts as they competed for a place in the final 16. After four rounds were completed it was down to the shortlist of sixteen hopefuls who attended a specialised football training camp courtesy of Betway Kenya. This camp was headed by Francis Kimanzi, then head coach of Mathare United, coaching staff from WestHam United in the United Kingdom and local legend Dennis Oliech, Betway brand ambassador at the time. The two beneficiaries of the initiative were Mark Nthiwa, a 20 year-old goal keeper from Githurai, Nairobi, and Moses Gitau, a 21 year-old attacking midfielder from Shanzu, Mombasa. The decision to send, not one, but two footballers to WestHam United in London UK was taken by Betway after witnessing the vast amount of talent on offer during the elite football camp where the top 16 players in the Betway Talent Search sought to demonstrate their skill. Community Sports Development Through its Corporate Social Responsibility program launched in 2018, Betway Kenya has since been at the forefront of supporting teams in various communities by providing kits, training equipment and renovation of facilities to teams that are inadequately funded to access the same. The first of these initiatives was a donation to the Kayole Starlets on the International Women’s Day where the women’s football team received training kits, training bibs, player shoes, track suits, training cones and soccer balls. This was part of the ‘Kayole ni Sisi’ initiative run by a Community Based Organisation that advocates against crime and drug abuse among youth in the Kayole township, vices that are very rampant in the area. Other communities that caught the generous eye of Betway Kenya include: Githurai All Stars, an initiative in partnership with the Agha Khan Hospital that included tree planting on International Earth Day 2018 and a free hypertension check-up for the residents of Githurai Estate by the hospital; Kibagare FC of Kangemi received kits having qualified to play in the FKF County League; The National Deaf Football Championship in conjunction with Kenya Football Federation for the Deaf; Bissil FC and Lenkishon FC  who played in Betway sponsored Moran Derby which saw donations of kits to both teams. In December of 2018, Betway Kenya sponsored the Nairobi Women’s Volleyball Tournament with teams from the slum areas of Kibra, Mukuru Kawangware and Kiambiu at the Public Service Grounds in upper hill. The tournament organised in partnership with Polycom, a CBO that runs development programs for women in slum areas in Nairobi to create networking opportunities among them and to create stronger social structures. Alswaafa football club from Kibra, Nairobi is the most recent beneficiary of Betway Kenya’s CSR initiatives. Betway unveiled the newly renovated community hall for the Alswaafa Football Club in April 2019 after a donation of kits, track suits and soccer balls. The community hall generates income for the team as the club provides it as a venue for neighbouring residents of Kibra to watch internationally broadcasted matches for a fee. These collections form part of the budget for running team activities including honouring away matches in the absence of a sponsor. Betway officials hinted that they would seek out more of such initiatives in the future as they empower sports clubs to be self-sustaining. What to Expect from Betway in the Future In a bid to live up to its slogan ‘For The Love of The Game’, Betway Kenya promises to continue to seek out deserving and well organized groups and support their initiatives through sports as a means to empower the youth engaging in these activities. Meanwhile, the search for talent in various sports disciplines continues.