Good morning, President Uhuru Kenyatta has moved to curb lavish spending in his administration with cuts that will be "brutal and sustained". This move comes amid concerns that previous austerity measures collapsed while the government continues to spend billions on non-essentials. In a  circular on behalf of the Cabinet, acting Treasury Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yatani cut foreign travel and office operations in at least nine areas. Here are the other stories making headlines in the Star this morning. Since his appointment as ‘super’ CEC in July, it has been a question of when Charles Kerich would be kicked out of City Hall. ‘Mr Fix It’ as he is popularly known at City Hall, fell out with Governor Mike Sonko immediately after he was elevated to coordinate projects in the capital. The veteran journalist was among the 16 top officials the governor suspended on Wednesday following the disaster at Precious Talent School in Dagoretti on Monday. Eight pupils died after a classroom block collapsed. The government does not know the number of Kenyans working abroad, the Ministry of Labour and Social Protection has said. During the launch of its 2018-22 strategic plan in Nairobi on Thursday, the ministry said accurate statistics were unavailable. "However, it is estimated that there are about 200,000 workers in the Middle East alone. Majority of these workers are engaged in low-skilled occupations and are exposed to numerous challenges, especially in respect to the terms and conditions of employment," the ministry said. Was there an unseemly rush to bury Nyeri Governor Wahome Gakuru? Were there any 'undercurrents' in the week before his death? Were there repercussions from Gakuru's call for a summit meeting of governors to revive the old metre-gauge railway? These were some of the questions asked Thursday at the inquest into the death of Nyeri Governor Wahome Gakuru in a road crash n November 7, 2017. Slain tycoon Tob Cohen's widow Sarah Wairimu has denied claims that her husband owed over Sh35 million to two Kiambu politicians. In an affidavit filed in court, Wairimu says that she was not aware that her late husband owed anyone such colossal amounts, let alone any Kiambu politicians. She said she learnt through the media of the said allegations after the opening of  Cohen’s will.  “I further learnt that the will opening ceremony was attended by a politician, one Patrick Muiruri and that two Kiambu politicians were claiming to be owed a sum of Sh35 Million by my late husband” reads the affidavit. Mary Wambui is an ageing widow who lives in Kiambu county, which neighbours the city of Nairobi. Wambui, 75, Wambui lives with her adult son and daughter and two grandchildren in an iron-sheet makeshift dwelling in Kareru, Gachui location. She is a beneficiary of a universal social pension scheme called 'Inua Jamii 70 years and above'.