Did you know that you have a right to access information held by the state? The right to access to information is provided for by the Access to Information Act, 2016, with the Commission on Administrative Justice, or the Ombudsman,  agency oversighting the right to access information. Many Kenyans are, however, not aware of the law. The lack of awareness was revealed on Thursday last week during a gala dinner hosted by Article 19 at Crowne Plaza, Nairobi. Article 19 works across the region in partnership with other national and regional organisations to safeguard freedom of expression and information. The Access to Information Act gives a maximum of 21 days to process access to information requests in writing either in Kiswahili or English. Individuals unable to read and write will be allowed to make oral requests. The right of access to information is broad but has some limitations, for instance, information will not be shared if it that may undermine the national security; impede the due process of law; endanger the safety, health or life of any person; involve the unwarranted invasion of the privacy of an individual Information that may substantially harm the government's ability to manage the economy will not be shared. But other than that, the field is wide open. Article 19 Senior Programme Officer Sandra Waswa said lack of awareness, as well as a framework to implement the Act, was to blame. "There is an urgent need for a framework to guide the implementation. There is also a need to build the capacity of duty bearers as well as citizens," she said. Article 35 of the Kenyan Constitution and Section 96 of the County Government Act, 2012 provide for the right to access of information. It may also be information held by another person and required for the exercise or protection of any right or fundamental freedom. The Access to Information Act, 2016 says that every citizen's right to access information is not affected by any reason the person gives for seeking access. "Access to information held by a public entity or a private body shall be provided expeditiously at a reasonable cost," the Act reads. Commission on Administration of Justice Access to Information commissioner Lucy Ndung'u said the free flow of information and ideas lie at the heart of democracy. "A lack of respect for the right to access information breeds fertile ground for human rights abuses to thrive, free and fair elections become a mirage, all pathways to expose corrupt, inefficient government and private entities become blocked," she said. Ndung'u said the role of her commission "requires a fair amount of courage since the culture of secrecy has deep-seated roots in the public sphere". She said they have received 300 appeals, 95 per cent of which have been resolved since the Act came into force. A survey by her office on proactive disclosure revealed that government officers were doing badly, Ndung'u said. "We issued circulars and the disclosure now has improved. There were 4,628 requests received, "she said. Ndungu said 2,633 officers in 220 institutions and 26 counties have been educated and trained on access to information. She praised Makueni county, the KRA and Kenya Ports Authority for being proactive in disclosing information on their websites. The Access to Information Act, 2016 mandates public entities to facilitate access to information they hold. The information may include particulars of its organisation, functions and duties; the powers and duties of its officers and employees, the procedure followed in the decision-making process, including channels of supervision and accountability. Other information includes salary scales of its officers by grade; the norms set by it for the discharge of its functions; guidelines used by the entity in its dealings with the public or corporate bodies. Such entities must also publish all relevant facts while formulating important policies or announcing the decisions which affect the public. Such institutions must also provide information on its websites or through any other form of media upon signing any contract. Particulars should be in respect to the public works, goods acquired or rented, and the contracted service, including any sketches, scopes of service and terms of reference. Others include the contract sums. the name of the service provider, contractor or individual to whom the contract has been granted and the periods within which the contract shall be completed. Information shall be disseminated taking into consideration the need to reach persons with disabilities, the cost, the local language and the most effective method of communication. The right of access to information is provided in several international and regional legal instruments that Kenya has ratified. The International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights at Article 19 encompasses the right of access to information held by public bodies. The UN Convention Against Corruption underscores the role of information in fighting corruption and requires states to ensure the public has effective access to information. Edited by R.Wamochie