Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru and Thirdway Alliance Party leader Ekuru Aukot on Tuesday engaged in a public spat on social media over the Punguza Mizigo Bill and NYS saga. The public slur between the two leaders came just hours after the Kirinyaga county assembly trashed the Aukot-sponsored bill. The spat started when Waiguru termed the Punguza Mizigo Bill as an 'unfortunate embarrassment'. "Fortunately for Kenya, we run on the basis of law, not on Aukot directives. The Bill was thrown out on the basis of the Law and Standing Orders of the Kirinyaga County Assembly. Period. Even on its merits, this Bill is, in any event, an unfortunate embarrassment," Waiguru tweeted. Waiguru lashed out at Aukot saying that he is a beneficiary of the NYS scam and he should instead focus on rectifying his defective bill. "Focus on your defective bill and stop tired sideshows. We all know who the creators and ghosts of NYS scam were; they fund and feast with you. FYI on corruption, some of us remember the COE massive financial irregularities, we read the reports, you can't fool people all the time," Waiguru said. This prompted a swift response from the Thirdaway Alliance leader and labelled Waiguru ' a public thief'. With his replies, Aukot awakened the ghosts of the NYS scandal as he went on a barrage of attacks on the Kirinyaga Governor. "A public thief cannot tell Kenyans about integrity. Even the recent audited reports from the Office of the Auditor-General speak for themselves," Aukot replied. "FYI the biggest heist you orchestrated is now a world case study. It killed the dreams of many young Kenyans. You can't fool people all the time." Aukot also said that Waiguru's excitement over the rejection of the bill was misplaced. "The bill was never tabled for debate and there was no way it could have been rejected, Mambo bado," he reiterated. He said that what was embarrassing is how people like Waiguru with all the integrity questions found their way into leadership. Aukot said that Punguza Mizigo Bill 2019 once passed will address such issues dealing with the integrity of Kenyan leaders. "We all know from even the recent audit findings on Kirinyaga, you still top the list of public officers who cannot account for public funds meant to alleviate poverty in Kirinyaga. You can no longer fool us." Aukot said that Amendments to Articles 73 and 79 are 'a real scarecrow for people like Anne Waiguru who are scared of the integrity provisions in the bill.' "Anne Waiguru is prematurely celebrating illegality that took place at the County Assembly of Kirinyaga today. Too early for her to celebrate. Bill has to be tabled for debate," he went on. He said that 19 MCAs support the bill and Waiguru's underhand dealings at the County Assembly purportedly denied them the opportunity to debate and vote on it, adding that it must be tabled for debate - and this didn't happen as required. Addressing a press conference after the assembly session on Tuesday, Waiguru said she was pleased with MCAs' decision to reject the bill. She said it was not favorable to residents, nor was it good for women.