The 2013 regional power-sharing agreement in Homa Bay county could end in disarray after members of the Rachuonyo clan disputed it. Rachuonyo is the biggest clan. Its members say they do not owe other clans a political debt. Ahead of the 2013 general election, Homa Bay Governor Cyprian Awiti (Rachuonyo) allegedly entered a political pact with former Senator Otieno Kajwang’ (Suba) and Woman Representative Gladys Wanga (Homa Bay). In the agreement, the county was divided into three regions: Rachuonyo, Homa Bay and Suba. Senator Moses Kajwang’ was elected to succeed his late brother. Governor Awiti is serving his second and last term. and as succession politics take shape, some residents say the Karachuonyo clan should now shelve its interest in the 2022 gubernatorial race.  They argue that it is time the clan supported a contender from another clan because its son will have served for two terms in 2022. But a group of Karachuonyo members, led by spokesman Odoyo Owidi, has dismissed the suggestion. Owidi, who is also the chairman of the Lake Basin Development Authority, said the Rachuonyo clan cut no deal to support a candidate from another clan once Awiti’s term ends. Speaking on Saturday after a prayer service at Wire SDA Church in Kasipul constituency, Owidi said Rachuonyo must field a gubernatorial candidate in 2022. Owidi said leaders who base their politics on the alleged agreement were talking propaganda. “Let anybody with written evidence over the purported agreement come out." He said the Rachuonyo people are only silent on the race for now because they want to give Awiti time to deliver on his promises. But their silence should not be mistaken for weakness, Owidi said, adding they will soon agree to support one candidate to ensure one of them wins the election. The clan occupies three constituencies — Kasipul, Karachuonyo and Kabondo Kasipul. The Homa Bay region has Rangwe, Ndhiwa and Homa Bay Town constituencies while Suba comprises Suba South and North constituencies. Politicians interested in the seat include ODM national chairman John Mbadi (Suba), Deputy Governor Hamilton Orata (Homa Bay), county secretary Isaiah Ogwe (Homa Bay), Woman Representative Gladys Wanga (Homa Bay), businessman Sammy Wakiaga (Suba) and former Kasipul MP Oyugi Magwanga (Rachuonyo). Edited by R.Wamochie