Kakamega county assembly will on Monday hold a special sitting in Eldoret to discuss the county Finance Bill. It will be the first assembly to hold official sittings outside its area of jurisdiction. The meeting to be attended by all MCAs from Kakamega has thus been gazetted as a special sitting. Kakamega Maurice Buluma will lead the meeting to be held at the Uasin Gishu county assembly. “We had to gazette the special meeting because all MCAs and staff of county assemblies are in Eldoret for the inter-county assembly games yet we have an important matter to handle,” Buluma said. Buluma has been in a row with the MCAs who had threatened to impeach him but he was saved after Governor Wycliffe Oparanya intervened and met with the ward representatives. They had accused Buluma of absenteeism from work among other allegations. All MCAs are currently on recess which is another reason why the special sitting had to be gazetted. Uasin Gishu assembly speaker David Kiplagat welcomed the move and said it will offer an opportunity for the two assemblies to learn from each other. “This is real benchmarking locally and we welcome our counterparts from Kakamega to be free to use our facilities,” Kiplagat said. Uasin Gishu hosted the first-ever Senate sittings outside Nairobi. The Senate transferred all its operations to Eldoret for two weeks in September last year. Speaker of the Senate Ken Lusaka said after the meetings that he was pleased with top-class facilities and organisation by the Uasin Gishu assembly. More than 1,000 MCAs are expected to be Eldoret for the whole week to participate in the second edition of the inter-county assembly games. Deputy President William Ruto has been invited to officially open the games on Monday while opposition chief Raila Odinga had been invited as chief guest at the closing ceremony on Saturday. Raila had, however, not confirmed his attendance by press time. “We are prepared to host the MCAs and other staff so that we can also share experiences on devolution and also have time to exercise during the sports events,” Kiplagat said. Uasin Gishu Majority leader Josphat Lowoi said they had learned a lot in terms of improving devolution by working with other relevant institutions. Edited by R.Wamochie