An ODM candidate who stepped down in favour of Reuben Katana has defected to Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa's camp as campaigns for the Ganda Ward by-election heighten. Erastus Katana AKA King'ale, a former councillor, claimed the ODM campaigns were based on succession politics of 2022 in the governor's seat race. King'ale was officially received by Jumwa, Ganda independent candidate Abdulrahman Mohamed Omar AKA Abdhere and his supporters at Jumwa's residence on Saturday night. His defection comes when campaigns are in top gear in the by-election which is set to be a litmus test between ODM and Jumwa, who was expelled from the party for supporting Deputy President William Ruto. King'ale on August 9 signed an MoU with Katana and Ibrahim Kaniki declaring support for Katana who was endorsed by ODM. However, on Saturday night, King'ale made a U-turn in what he termed as dissatisfaction in the manner in which campaigns were being conducted. ''When I saw my voice was not being heard in ODM, I found the only person and go back to the people with was Omar. We consulted and agreed to set aside our small differences and place Ganda people first," he said. He said Omar was elected to serve for five years and deserves to be given a chance to complete his term for the sake of development. King'ale's message to the people is that even though they love ODM, the current agenda being pushed by the party was for 2022 "which will not help the voters of Ganda". Jumwa thanked King'ale for joining her camp and called for cooperation between him and Omar. "I thank you and the others who were supporting you and welcome we work together for the sake of Ganda people," she said. Omar also thanked King'ale for considering the welfare of Ganda people and not going for divisive politics. ''We shall work together with you my brother as a team so that we deliver to the people of Ganda," he said. The by-election for Ganda ward is scheduled for October 17. Others in the race include Joseph Kiponda AKA Joseppe of Jubilee Party and David Mistanze of Kadu Asilu. Edited by R.Wamochie