 The political divide in the country is due to the winner-takes-it-all provision in the Constitution, according to businessman Dubat Amey. Amey, who is the chairman of the Kenya Livestock Marketing Council, on Sunday dismissed both the Ekuru Aukot led Punguza Mizigo and the Building Bridges Initiatives as aimed at creating positions for the political class and not for benefiting the man on the street. He called for a system that ensures that the positions of the president, prime minister (to be created), Speaker of the National Assembly and Chief Justice should be shared regionally. He said the post of the prime should be created. “What we are witnessing in the country today revolves around power. Those who have tasted it want to keep it and those seeking it want to use all means to achieve it,” he said. He said that the posts of the NIS director, Inspector General of Police and Chief of General Staff for the Kenya Defence Forces should also be shared regionally. “All Kenyans irrespective of the numbers and regions should feel part of the government of the day. This will reduce political noise and stabilise the country,” he said. The former chairman of the defunct Garissa county council called for the formation of a team of experts to categorise counties into regional blocks based on socio-economic and the least religious beliefs for seats sharing. Amey, who addressed the media at Garissa town, said that Punguza Mizigo and BBI have been politicised and will not deliver any meaningful constitutional amendments for the ordinary Kenyan. He reminded the political class that it will not stay in power for ever. "Today, strongmen Jomo Kenyatta and Robert Mugabe are no more. (Daniel) Moi, (Mwai) Kibaki, Charles Njonjo to name a few are now ordinary citizens. So don’t intimidate and harass your opponents using your position.” “The problem with our political class is that they think they are always right and will only pursue an agenda that directly benefits them,” he said. “Look at the way they come together during the clamour for higher pay or allowance It is the same when they are pushing for amendments of the constitution,” he added. Amey, who was a delegate in the 2005 Bomas conference constitution drafting, urged politicians to tolerate each other and allow Kenyans to air their views without being intimidated.   