Kiambu CEC for Finance and Economic planning Kigo Njenga has convened an entry meeting with officers from the Office of the Auditor-General in regard to the Annual Audit for the financial year 2018/2019. The meeting in Thika on Tuesday was held ahead of the commencement of the process of audit on the public institution in Kiambu. The audit will review the acquisition of major assets and projects, compensation of the employees including the recruitment process, procurement processes, revenue generation, allowances, pending bills, and county funds. Kigo has tasked all the accounting officers in all Kiambu government departments to cooperate and in a timely manner with the auditors while giving full access to them as per their needs. “This is not an investigation but an inquiry of how we have managed public funds for the year 2018/2019 and our scorecard will depend on your cooperation or lack of it thereof,” he said. Acting director of audit Phillip Cheboiwo said their only mandate is to scrutinise the financial management of public finance, compliance to the regulations and report before December 31, 2019. “We do not examine every transaction, nor do we guarantee complete accuracy of the financial statements or compliance with all applicable legislation. However we have considered some areas of significant risk which the auditors will pay more attention to as we prepare our report,” Cheboiwo said. Cheboiwo also asked the head of departments to report any suspected fraud or misappropriations if any in the initial stages of the process “This will make our work easier, though we haven’t come for a witch hunt, your report will be based solely on the information and documents you provide or don’t provide,” Cheboiwo said. CEC Karungo wa Thang’wa for Youth Affairs, Sports and Communication who was in attendance said that despite the audit focusing on accounting officers all county Executive Members should be kept abreast of the process. Thang'wa cited that they are the same people who get summoned by the assemblies to explain audit queries if any. “It is also an opportunity to know if anything was done without their approval,” he said.