The Punguza Mizigo Bill has sparked division among Nairobi City MCAs ahead of its public participation. In their first sitting on Tuesday after a one month recess, Acting Speaker Chege Mwaura directed that the bill be taken to the ground for residents to give their views. He also directed that the Justice and Legal Affairs committee take charge and moderate the Thirdway Alliance-sponsored Bill to Nairobians. "The Bill be committed to the Sectoral Committee on Justice and Legal Affairs for consideration and tabling of its report in line with the provision on whether or not the Assembly proceeds to approve or reject it," Chege said. On July 30, 2019, before the ward reps went for recess, the committee had deliberated on the proposed bill and resolved that the notice of its motion for the approval be introduced by in the Assembly by the Majority leader. Speaking to the Star, Chege said that he wanted a different case for Nairobi where the bill will be passed based on the voters' views. "We don't want just to reject or pass the Bill like some other counties. We want to hear what Nairobi residents have to say on it. As elected members and representing them it is prudent to also get their input," he said. The speaker further said that they will divide Nairobi into at least four or five zones for the public participation. "Before it comes, members are given a chance to consult with Nairobi residents. The House Business Committee will only allocate the bill the time and date it shall be debated on the floor," Chege said. The Opposition side led Minority Leader Elias Otieno and Minority Chief Whip Peter Imwatok stood firm and said that they are not for the Bill. "As ODM we stand from where we left before recess that our party has already taken a position and Punguza Mizigo which is a Punguza Punda is not good for Kenyans," Otieno said. Imwatok stated that the Bill is just a collection of signatures and not consultations from Kenyans. "Nairobi must set a good example to Kenya and we want peace. Punguza Mizigo is not part of us and we are going to take it down and you can take it to the bank . Even when it comes to the county assembly the Bill will collapse," he said. Imwatok accused Aukot of purporting peace as populism unlike the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) which according to him has facts on how Kenyans can move forward. The Makongeni ward rep also alleged that Deputy President William Ruto is behind the Bill. "This is politics and if he (Ruto) plays his, we are also going to play ours. At the end of the day, the Punguza Bill is not a public derive initiative but individual," he stated. Some of the Jubilee MCAs are in support of the Bill while others chose not to declare their stand. Roysambu MCA Peter Warutere said the Bill deserved to see the light of the day. 'We should pass the bill because it will reduce the burden to the Wanjiku. I think the bill is good to go," he said. Dandora Three MCA Charles Thuo said he was in support of the bill and was speaking on behalf of the Jubilee MCAs who have given him the mandate to led the rest into supporting it. "I have been selected by the party to oversee the bill and also lure my friends from the opposition into accepting the bill," he said. However, Majority leader Abdi Hassan said that people should not confuse individual views as the party stand. "The Jubilee MCAs are giving their personal views and not the stand of the party on the bill," he said. The dates on public participation are yet to be scheduled.