One by one they recounted their woes, reliving their pain and bitterness at losing their loved ones at the hands of the police. To them, the sight of the police is a sad reminder of their missing loved ones or their experience. The families, who are victims of extrajudicial killings, violent crime, police harassment and enforced disappearance, gathered at the National Museum last Friday to tell their heart-wrenching tales. One such family is that of Anne Njeri, a mother of six. Her secondborn son William Muthendo, 20, was shot dead alongside seven others by the police at Mukuru kwa Njenga on April 19, 2016. Witness account indicates that the police cornered the young men, led them to a secluded spot in the bowels of the slum, and shot them at close range, she told the Star. "My son was a hard-working young man who had a passion for football," she said. That Tuesday, Njeri said, her son had asked her for Sh150 to pay their football coach as they had a match. "I didn't have the money, so I told him to tell the coach to allow him to play and I would pay later. That was the last time I would see my son," she said. "I was informed and when I arrived at the scene, I found the bodies lying in a pool of blood but the police had cordoned off the area. They had not taken them to City Mortuary." Ruth Nanjala, mother of Amos Wafula, 25, also killed among the eight, said she was at church choir practice in the evening when she received a call. “I don't know why they killed him, a good quiet man," she said of her firstborn. Vincent Munyoki said the choice of one's clothes and accessories attracts police attention in slums. In Mathare slum, for example, Munyoki said, wearing chains, sporting dreadlocks, putting on dark glasses, and even earrings is enough for police to judge one a criminal deserving of assault, arrest for extortion or even gunning down. "Sometimes when you wear new clothes or even carry a new phone, you attract police suspicion, becoming a target of whipping and arrest," Gerald Otieno, who lives in Mlango Kubwa, said. "It's like being poor is a lifelong sentence of police harassment and frustration." Speaking to the Star on the sidelines, Amnesty International executive director Houghton Irungu urged the High Court to conclude a lawsuit by 20 women whose children and husbands were killed by police to have the President empanel a commission of inquiry into the killings. The petition was filed last year by International Justice Mission, a rights lobby, alongside the women to have complete investigations into the cases documented by the organisation. The meeting at the museum saw various performances and skits by many youths staged to depict how the police profile young people in the slums, mark them out for harassment, and eventual disappearance and killing.