Good morning, Cons among them a cleric used President Uhuru Kenyatta's name to defraud the Akashas Sh5.5 million with a promise to help return family members charged in the US. Baktash Akasha was sentenced to 25 years on August 16 and Ibrahim Akasha is awaiting sentencing on November 8 over drug-trafficking charges in the US. Out of agony and desperation, Najma Hassan fell for the scammers who claimed to be highly connected. She paid pastor Chris Ngweti money after he claimed to have been sent by President Kenyatta. Ngweti was arrested and charged on Thursday. Here are the other stories making headlines in the Star this morning. All the 47 counties will be included in the Executive if a governors' referendum proposal is adopted. The governors' Ugatuzi Initiative proposes an expanded Executive with the President as the Head of State. There will be a Deputy President, a Prime Minister and two deputy Prime Ministers. Council of Governors chairman Wycliffe Oparanya said on Thursday the Cabinet will not have more than 18 ministers and 22 deputies. President Uhuru Kenyatta's endorsement of Jubilee's McDonald Mariga for the Kibra by-election poses a litmus test for the longevity of his handshake with Raila Odinga. Uhuru had initially kept off the Mariga debate amid claims he was reluctant to enter into a political contest that would jeopardise his blossoming ties with Raila since the March 9, 2018 truce. Kenya Power has issued a profit warning for the second year running, an indicator of the tough times the power distribution monopoly is going through. In a public notice, the Nairobi Stock Exchange listed power utility said it expects its profits for the financial year ended June 30 to drop by more than 25 per cent compared to last year. This means the firm's net earnings for the year will drop to Sh1.44 billion or below. Meat consumers in Africa are willing to pay a premium price for antibiotics-free meat, according to a new survey launched on Thursday. The study by World Animal Protection, a Kenyan chapter of a global animal rights lobby, says there is an increasing preference for white meat. Chicken tops the list followed by fish. The evolving drama surrounding the murder of Dutch tycoon Tob Cohen now focusses on his will, said to be in the possession of his sister. On Thursday, the day started with lawyers in the conflict — Cliff Ombeta for Cohen's family and Philip Murgor for widow Sarah Wairimu — announcing to the press settlement of the feud over who gets the body and how it should be handled.