The Director of Public Prosecution has suspended court proceedings against televangelist Thomas Wahome who allegedly insulted Nyeri South deputy county commissioner Henry Ochako. Senior Assistant Director of Public Prosecution Peter Mailanyi said they had halted the charges to respond to issues raised by the cleric in a petition filed at the High Court challenging the intended prosecution. Mailanyi told Nyeri deputy registrar Ruth Kefa on Tuesday that he had instructed a state prosecutor to stop pursuing the summons issued to the pastor. The summons required the pastor to appear at a magistrate's court in Othaya. “I have given directions to the prosecutor not to pursue the summons but to have the matter mentioned. The case is pending before Othaya court and is coming up for mention on September 19,” Mailanyi said. He said the pastor had raised substantive issues in the petition and therefore said he would peruse the file and respond within a period of two weeks. Wahome through lawyer Douglas Obongi did not oppose the DPP’s move explaining that he agreed to have the case in Othaya held in abeyance. In the petition, the televangelist says the intended prosecution is aimed at coercing him into dropping another case against an assistant chief charged with stealing his two dogs worth Sh300,000. The Kiandemi sub-location assistant chief, Paul Wageni, is under a criminal trial on accusations of stealing the two dogs in December 2016, at Kihuri village in Othaya. "The Nyeri South deputy county commissioner Henry Ochako lodged a criminal case number 543 of 2019 at a court in Othaya against me where I was to be charged with using abusive language in a manner likely to cause breach of peace. “He informed me that if I failed to withdraw a complaint against the assistant chief, I will suffer the consequences," the preacher says in his affidavit. The preacher says the DCC and the village have violated and breached his rights by subjecting him to unfair trial arising from framed up charges. “The petitioner’s freedom of movement has been restrained as he is apprehensive of being harassed or killed by gangs,” Wahome’s lawyer, Douglas Obongi said in the petition. The lawyer claimed that his client’s family has also been denied access to services at the local offices of the Ministry of Interior because of the criminal case against the chief. “The assistant chief and the DCC have failed to carry out their duties in accordance with the law and in the pretext of carrying out their duties as public officers have violated the rights and freedoms of the petitioner,” Obongi said. He wants the High Court to issue an order restraining the chief and the subcounty administrator from harassing, threatening and interfering with Wahome’s property, dignity and business. The lawyer also wants the court to declare that the actions of the two administrators were oppressive and an abuse of the legal process. Further, Obongi is seeking a directive stopping the administrators from interfering with the pending criminal case facing the assistant chief. The application will be heard on October 1.