South Mugirango MP Silvanus Osoro has said he is not aware of a plan by the Kenya National Congress Party to deregister him. KNC has instructed the Registrar of Political Parties to have Osoro struck of its roll for failure to comply with party regulations. But Osoro on Monday said he had not received official communication from the party about the move. "I'm seeing these things in the media for the first time. I have not received any official communication regarding the move to deregister me as a member of the KNC party," Osoro told the Star on the phone. "It is hogwash and lacks merit. It is a move calculated to pander to whims of some selfish people." Osoro is one of Deputy President William Ruto's key allies from Kisii and KNC is accusing him of insubordination, failure to submit monthly party subscriptions and promoting the interests of another party. "Who should believe in the spirit of the handshake. Nobody should be boxing an MP to support this or that camp because all of us are building bridges, irrespective of party affiliation. This should not be misconstrued to mean we are undermining the interests of our parties," the first-term MP said. He accused the party of hiking monthly subscription dues from Sh10,000 to Sh25,000 without the approval of the National Executive Council. The party's letter to the registrar was signed by secretary general James Ogembo. Osoro accused him of attempting to milk cheap political capital out of the matter. Ogembo, however, said the legislator had failed to comply with party regulations. "After deliberation by the party's National Executive Council, the South Mugirango MP was found wanting," Ogembo told the registrar. He said consistently failed to honour a pledge of commitment to the party which he had signed. "We hereby instruct your office to remove from KNC party register the name of Sylvanus Osoro, KNC member No. KNCKS1000077," Ogemb's letter reads. He said Osoro failed to honour numerous summons by the party's National Executive Council to defend himself against the charges.