Why is Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli pushing to have Foreign Affairs Cabinet Secretary Monica Juma fired? Sources close to the trade unionists claim President Uhuru Kenyatta was not given an opportunity to address the Tokyo International Conference for African Development, popularly as TICAD VII, last week. This is despite Kenya being the host of TICAD VI in 2018. However, those in the know claim that the TICAD issue is just the tip of the iceberg. Claims of alleged favouritism in promotions, deployment, especially in foreign missions, are whispered to be at the heart of Atwoli's infuriation. Group thinking can at times be costly, considering the events around the county cash crisis. Well, Corridors is informed that as the Council of Governors, led by Wycliffe Oparanya, was declaring a looming shutdown of counties, one of the county bosses was already working to mitigate the pressure that comes when salaries delay. As the county bosses pressed for the release of cash, little did they know that their ‘smart’ colleague, who was among those warning of a paralysis, had used everything within his power to get the staffers paid their August dues. Just before the Mara University Heist cools off, another public university in  Rift Valley is also said to be the eye of a storm. Sources said internal audit reports have unearthed financial impropriety that could attract the attention of graft detectives. It's alleged that part of the university land acquired at more than Sh300 million does not have property documents. Auditors are left wondering what was the basis of the transaction. There is also haphazard withdrawal of cash that smells of graft. Maybe the Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti has another candidate. Has a principal of a secondary school in Nairobi and a doctor colluded to swindle parents of their money? Parents at the school, situated in Eastlands, are concerned about a scheme to refer their children, whenever they are unwell, to the specific doctor. The parents are required to pay Sh5,000 prior to their sons getting an appointment to see the medic, who does not even have a laboratory to carry out tests. Staff at the school were yesterday overheard wondering aloud who will save the parents?