Nyandarua Governor Francis Kimemia and nominated MP Maina Kamanda have dismissed the recent remark by Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru that Kenya is not ready for another Kikuyu president. While giving the state of the county report at Kerugoya Level 5 Hospital, Waiguru said another Kikuyu presidency would fuel feelings of exclusion from the country’s top leadership by other communities. She said Kenya has many communities and one or two cannot continue dominating the national leadership. However, on Saturday during a fundraiser at Ol Kalou Catholic Church grounds, Kimemia said such talks add no value to the nation as they are misleading and aimed at intimidating the Central Kenya community not to vie for top national leadership positions. He said all Kenyan communities have qualified leaders who can become President hence Waiguru’s statement was uncalled for. “No single community is so cursed that it cannot produce a President, deputy president, cabinet secretaries, bishops and the like, “he said. Kimemia said such talk was also brought up when he was the transition chairman during the Kibaki succession, where people insisted that President Uhuru Kenyatta should go home as he could not take over from President Kibaki, another Kikuyu. The governor, however, dismissed the notion. "I told them leaders are anointed by God,” Kimemia said. “As the chairperson of the Central region block, I want to say the 10 governors in the region would not want to hear such talks that the Kikuyu community cannot do this or that, as we belong to God, not the devil. When the time comes we shall lead our people where God shall guide us." Kimemia said what is important is for the people from the region to embrace one another and avoid unnecessary conflicts and embrace people from all the other Kenya communities. He reiterated that the region shall speak in one voice and follow the direction that shall be given by the President. For now, he said, it is not time for politics but time to ensure Uhuru's Big 4 Agenda is implemented across the country. His views were echoed by nominated MP, Maina Kamanda. Kamanda said what Kimemia emphasised is the direction the central region leaders must take. The nominated MP emphasised that every community has a leader who gives directions and guidance. He said it is wrong for Waiguru to bring out such politics as this is time for work where no one is interested in politics.