Three Murang’a MPs have asked nominated MP Maina Kamanda to return his nominated position to the Jubilee party and join the ODM party. Alice Wahome (Kandara), Mary Waithera (Maragua) and Ndindi Nyoro (Kiharu), who were attending a church service at Kiru ACK church in Mathioya, said this following Kamanda’s decision to support an ODM candidate in the Kibra by-election. The lawmakers said as a nominated MP, Kamanda should be at the forefront in pushing for the party agenda. Waithera said it was a surprise to see Kamanda purporting to be representing the President and announcing his support for the ODM candidate Imran Okoth. President Uhuru Kenyatta endorsed Jubilee candidate MacDonald Mariga at Statehouse in Nairobi. Waithera said punitive action should be taken against Kamanda. “Kamanda should not be seen to be supporting the ODM party while he is nominated by the Jubilee party. He should resign and join ODM," he said. Ndindi said Kamanda did not deserve to be a nominated MP. He said the position was supposed to have been given to a woman, youth or disabled person. The MP said although the handshake was well intended, the presence of opposition leader Raila Odinga in the government is causing divisions in the ruling party. “This is the reason we have things such as Tangatanga and Kieleweke. The handshake was well intended but Raila never had good intentions,” Ndindi said. Wahome said Deputy President William Ruto took an oath to support the President and the two have never fought. She said the conflicts in Jubilee are choreographed by some selfish individuals who do not have the interest of the party at heart. Wahome lauded the President for standing with Mariga. She said any member of the opposition is free to join the government but a guest can never lead the party. “Kamanda will be left alone. Jubilee will move forward and get even stronger as we near 2022,” she said. She said there is no room for outsiders who have not been mandated by Murang’a people to attempt to lead the county and divide leaders. “Even the fights we saw in a church the other day were choreographed and we know they are doing the same in the Rift Valley,” she said. Wahome said the journey to State House in 2022 has started whether some people join it or not. 