The government does not know the number of Kenyans working abroad, the Ministry of Labour and Social Protection has said. During the launch of its 2018-22 strategic plan in Nairobi on Thursday, the ministry said accurate statistics were unavailable. "However, it is estimated that there are about 200,000 workers in the Middle East alone. Majority of these workers are engaged in low-skilled occupations and are exposed to numerous challenges, especially in respect to the terms and conditions of employment," the ministry said. It blamed lack of appropriate legislation and weak coordination of the numerous public sector agencies involved. PS Peter Tum said the ministry had streamlined foreign employment and had established labour offices in Saudi  Arabia, Qatar, and United Arab Emirates to address labour migration issues. "Reforms in registration and regulations of recruitment agencies to cut down on rogue agencies is one of the key factors we have been able to put in place," Tum said. He added negotiations and operalization of another three bilateral labour agreements with Saudi Arabia, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates had been put in place. Negotiations of bilateral agreements with Kuwait, Berlin, Lebanon, Jordan had also been concluded. "The development of a training program which is mandatory for all migrant workers has been put in place. To date, over 20,000 prospective migrants have been trained through this program," he said. CS Ukur Yattani said the five-year plan will see the implementation of four key areas of best labour practices, employment, and promotion of productivity, leadership and integrity and policy coordination and capacity building. He added the ministry would spend Sh211 billion in implementation of the plan. Yattani said there was a need for more donors to come on board to help in funding the 2018-2022 plan. The government has committed Sh162 billion towards the plan but will depend on donors to raise the remaining Sh49 billion. "The strategic plan is a blueprint the ministry will use to solve some of the challenges identified," he said. Yattani said high unemployment levels especially among the youth and women, weak institutional capacity and a mismatch between the number of graduates and job demand had greatly affected the implementation of the 2013-17 strategic plan. He said inadequate policy, legal and institutional frameworks, lack of a comprehensive wages and remuneration policy and low workforce productivity were some of the challenges the ministry was grappling with.