A post shared on Klad house and Migori Republican Facebook pages claiming that Amref Health Africa has advertised for graduate trainee jobs is a HOAX. The post says that Amref has advertised for 1,500 new opportunities for recent college and university graduates who will be absorbed in an 18-month graduate trainee program. The ad also asks job seekers to submit their applications through careers@amref.org and forward to careers.amref2019@gmail.com by November 11. However, Amref Health Africa has distanced itself from the post. In a tweet published on September 5, the organization says that it has not put out this call for applications for applicants to join a graduate trainee program. Amref says that all its external jobs are posted on its official website http://www.amref.org. The advertisement uses a Gmail address and also includes an email address on Amref’s domain in an attempt to make the ad look legitimate, and comments are disabled on the post, possibly in an attempt to prevent potential targets of this ad from seeing any warnings on its authenticity. PesaCheck has looked into the claim that Amref Health Africa has advertised graduate trainee jobs in Kenya and finds it to be a HOAX. This post is part of an ongoing series of PesaCheck fact-checks examining content marked as potential misinformation on Facebook and other social media platforms. By partnering with Facebook and similar social media platforms, third-party fact-checking organisations like PesaCheck are helping to sort fact from fiction. We do this by giving the public deeper insight and context to posts they see in their social media feeds. Have you spotted what you think is fake news or false information on Facebook? Here’s how you can report. And, here’s more information on PesaCheck’s methodology for fact-checking questionable content. This fact-check was written by PesaCheck Researcher James Okong’o, was edited by PesaCheck Deputy Editor Ann Ngengere and was approved for publication by PesaCheck Managing Editor Eric Mugendi.