Yes, it’s the Nyege Nyege Festival weekend, and nobody should be left living with the annoying sting of FOMO. The fifth edition of the most hotly anticipated annual Ugandan fiesta is set to take place again in Njeru, Jinja, from September 5-9. This year, the festival is set to bring together the amazing energy of East Africa. It aims to be “The Best Party on Earth”. It will feature installations and performances from acts from all over the continent, as well as a special focus on China, Indonesia and the US. With over 300 performers expected to perform at the festival, Jinja will also experience roving traditional bands and disco shacks outside the festival grounds, where surprise acts from the official lineup will make appearances. Representing Kenya will be DJ Mufasa, DJ Vajayjay, Duma, KMRU, MC Yallah, Obwaka, Olith, Nazizi, Seeds of Datura, Slikback and Zzero Sufuri The four-day festival will feature five stages and one secret stage. It will also be graced by filmmakers, photographers, dancers, graffiti artists and fashion designers out to explore their talents.  The venue also provides for camping in an aim to ensure that attendees enjoy the creative offerings as well as experience absolute comfort. Kenya Art Panorama The Alliance Française de Nairobi will open the Kenya Art Panorama exhibit themed “70 Years, 70 Artists” on Tuesday, September from 6.30 pm. The panoramic showcase will feature the works of various artists of different generations of creatives who have all contributed to the vibrant Kenyan art scene, and whose works have been shown in historic galleries over the years. The showcase is expected to exhibit a range of engaging works runs until September 29. Konshens in Nairobi Jamaican dancehall artiste Konshens returns to Nairobi on September 7, where he is set to perform at this year's Hype Fest to be held at Ngong Racecourse in Nairobi. The concert will also be graced by local acts Nviiri the Storyteller, Ethic, Kansoul, Gwaash, Sailors, Bensoul, Ochungulo Family and Chris Kaiga.