President Uhuru has asked coast governors to form a team that will liaise with the national government on behalf of the six counties. The team will be tasked with identifying and working on strategies that will improve the economic activities of the six counties. This was agreed at the meeting between Uhuru and the Coastal leaders at State House, Mombasa. The Star has established that President Uhuru will also form a team of technocrats from the national government who will work with the Coast team. Uhuru will personally be chairing meetings of the Coast team and his technocrats so as to harness the potential of the Coast region. Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir, who attended the meeting, said they are yet to identify the possible team of leaders from each of the six counties at the Coast: Mombasa, Kilifi, Kwale, Tana River, Taita Taveta and Lamu. “Before he comes back, we will have another meeting,” said Nassir. “We are going to share our figures - the way the situation is – and his people will explain their issues to us then we come up with an amicable solution,” Nassir said. The meeting was attended by all the governors of the six counties, together with at least six senators, and at least 10 MPs. Lands PS Nicholas Muraguri, CAS Gideon Mung’aro, Devolution CAS Hussein Dado, State House Controller Kinuthia Mbugua, among others were also present. The coast leaders are keen to diversify the region's economy. They want the cashew nut, the mango and the coconut sectors revived so as to improve the economy of the region. However, Uhuru told the leaders this cannot be achieved if they keep on fighting one another. “The president was very passionate about our unity, or lack of it. He really wants the region to be the economic giant of the country,” said an MP who attended the meeting but did not to be identified. Uhuru told the leaders the region will achieve faster development through the unity of the leaders. “Let us find solutions to our challenges, there can be nothing which is impossible if we unite,” Uhuru said. Uhuru told the Coast leaders the Dongo Kundu project is on progress with groundwork already having started. “He said they are now in preparation to put the site office in Bonje, which will be completed in three months’ time,” said the source.