Senators have proposed a change to the law so that the Kenya Revenue Authority can collect revenue for counties. The lawmakers said counties were losing revenue running into billions due to leakages associated with systems they use. They cited administrative inefficiency, gaps in policy, weak laws and collusion between unscrupulous county officers and cash collection firms. The senators want the Public Finance Management (PFM) Act, 2012 amended to effect the changes. Vihiga Senator George Khaniri said the persistent failure by counties to meet their local revenue targets meant they need KRA's assistance. Nominated Senator Agnes Zani said the Controller of Budget and KRA should work with counties to propose amendments to the law. The move, she said, will enable more regularity, standardisation and efficiency in own-source revenue. “We will discuss this within the House and come up with a system that is going to be shared across various counties, mobilise and put very well so that the collection of this revenue can be well-managed,” Zani said. Bungoma Senator Moses Wetangula linked decreasing own-source revenue in most counties to corruption. “Money is, in fact, collected, but it is never declared because it ends up in people’s pockets and private accounts,” Wetangula said. He blamed the public prosecutor and the ethics agency for failing to look after public resources. “If a governor is reckless or incompetent in collecting taxes, why take away money being allocated from the national government for facilities that reach the ordinary person?” he asked. Wajir Senator Ali Abdullahi and Mary Seneta (Nominated) also blamed counties for the meagre revenues collected. Low revenue collection, they said, was causing huge budget deficits which have led to huge bills incurred by the counties. Senator Khaniri said that most counties were over-dependent on funding from the national government. Some counties’ own-source revenue is not even 10 per cent of their total annual budget, he said. If counties increase own-source revenue collection, he noted, they will benefit from increased funds and grants from the equitable share raised nationally. “It has been observed that counties have generally failed to collect the projected own source revenue since the dawn of devolution in 2013. “In most cases, counties are underperforming when compared to the defunct local governments,” Khaniri said. Article 209 (3) of the Constitution gives counties the power to collect revenue through property taxes, entertainment taxes, and any other taxes as authorised by Parliament. Further, Article 207 (1) also dictates that all counties should establish a County Revenue Fund, where all revenue collected by the county governments should be deposited. Khaniri called on county governments to be innovative in their revenue-raising schemes. 