A primary school in Voi constituency, Taita Taveta, risks closure over low enrollment. Mwambolembole Primary School was started in 1943 but is now one of the least populated schools in the region. Headteacher Johnson Mwadime said the enrollment has reduced from 67 pupils in 2014 to the current 39. He blamed the problem on increasing dropout rate and drug abuse among pupils. “Currently, we have nine KCPE candidates and three Class 7 pupils, while Class 6, 5 and 4 have six, four and three pupils respectively. We also have five pupils in Grade 3, six in Grade 2 and three in Grade 1," Mwadime said. The school has seven teachers posted by the Teachers Service Commission and two others employed by the board of management. It also lacks better infrastructure, teaching materials and playground. The headteacher said they do not get any NG-CDF cash because of the low population. He urged the Voi NG-CDF office to allocate funds for renovation. Deputy headteacher Alphone Mwanyika said the poverty among residents has also contributed to the dwindling enrolment. “Only 25 parents have brought their children to school. We receive a very little allocation from the Ministry of Education under the free primary education programme which forces us to ask for assistance from parents," he said. Esther Makumbo, a Grade 3 teacher, expressed fear that the school might be closed if the situation does not change. Taita Taveta county education director Simon Wanjohi said, "With a small number of pupils, a teacher gets a hard time in perfecting the syllabus, which needs grouping of pupils in a class. The small number has affected performance due to lack of competition." He, however, assured parents that the government was in the process of handling the situation. "I'm waiting for a report from the area so we can make an informed decision. We can't just close the school until we are assured that the pupils will be able to access education in the neighbouring schools," Wanjohi told the Star on the phone. He said the school had many underutilised teachers, pointing out that the report shall also focus on how to fully utilise teachers in schools with low enrolments. Wanjohi said many schools in Mbololo and Rong'e of Voi and Mwatate were suffering low enrolment due to sparse population. (Edited by F'Orieny)