Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa has told off Kilifi ODM leaders for campaigning against her candidate for the Ganda ward by-elections set for October 17. Jumwa also dismissed claims ODM's Reuben Katana was Governor Amason Kingi's candidate, saying the information could not be trusted. Addressing more than 1,200 campaigners from the 12 polling stations in the ward on Thursday, she said Kingi was not dumb for them to speak on his behalf. The MP termed reports Kingi is supporting an ODM candidate as rumours. The governor was elected on an ODM ticket. Jumwa is supporting Abdulrahman Mohamed who is running on an independent ticket. He is the immediate former MCA after his win was challenged by Katana. Other candidates are David Mitsanze of Kadu Asili and Joseph Kiponda of Jubilee. She said leaders have ganged up against her and Mohamed and are using the platform to insult her instead of telling Ganda residents about their development agenda. The legislator was reacting to statements by four Kilifi MPs and more than 10 MCAs that ODM would win the by-election. The MPs include Owen Baya (Kilifi North), Ken Chonga (Kilifi South), Teddy Mwambire (Ganze), William Kamoti (Rabai), Senator Stewart Madzayo and Deputy Governor Gideon Saburi. During the meeting, Kamoti announced that Katana was Governor Kingi's preferred candidate. In response, Jumwa said she did not believe Kingi's candidate was endorsed by ODM asking the governor to come out and answer questions from the electorates if that was the case. "Kingi will come to Ganda and if he disowns Mohamed, we shall ask him to tell us why," she said. She said he has a cordial relationship with MCAs who are not in ODM. "I don't want to speak for the governor but I would like to tell Kamoti that Ganda people respect the governor. I also respect him. If he does not like Mohamed, he will come and state it in person." The MP said she would "deal with the ODM leaders" and make sure they lose the by-election. Jumwa also vowed not to move out of the party. "I will fight them from within. I wonder they are always accusing me of supporting Ruto saying that's why I have money. Why can't they come where the money is?" the lawmaker asked. Two MCAs elected on an independent ticket joined Jumwa's camp; from Tezo and Watamu ward. She told her opponents that running on an independent ticket does not affect development. "Others were saying this is a rally; this is a meeting with campaigners which has brought together leaders, both men, women and youth." Mohamed outlined his development record in the past year and eight months which he said was evident in all corners of the ward. He warned Deputy Governor Saburi against engaging in politics of his ward as he was "just a leader who got his position due to the support of the governor". "If you have no work to do go to Rabai, stop interfering with Ganda. I have suffered together with the youth, men and women campaigning for the governor, you were just a cat who got the opportunity because of supporting him," Mohamed said. Watamu MCA Benson Chengo told Ganda residents not to be cheated that an independent candidate will not deliver citing his record. Tezo's Thomas Chengo said he was elected ion an independent ticket because of party injustices but still "the will of the people led to his victory". Edited by R.Wamochie