@alalmaurice The High Court has stopped the removal of two members of the Kisumu City Management Board who were sacked on Friday by Governor Anyang' Nyong'o. Former Kisumu mayor Sam Okelo and Ken Akoko also obtained orders blocking the advertisement for their replacements. Employment and Labour Relations Court Judge Hellen Wasilwa issued the orders in Nairobi on Tuesday before referring the case to Kisumu for an inter-parties hearing on September 18. The case will be heard before Justice Nduma Nderi who will also hear the case filed by impeached finance executive Nerry Achar. Achar sued the county assembly for impeaching him. Nyong’o cited lack of degrees for the firing of Okelo and Akoko, saying the county was acting in compliance with the Urban Areas and Cities Act which was recently reviewed. “The review introduced new measures and requirements with regard to the composition of the membership,” Nyong'o said through his press unit director Aloice Ager. Among the new requirements is that all members of the cities boards and town management committees must be holders of at least an undergraduate degree and must have practiced for not less than seven years. Other members of the Kisumu City Management Board are Charles Ochome, Sheila Okal, Lawrence Gumbe, Rose Olende, Sagar Shah, Elijah Adul, Farida Salim, Peris Ochola and John Ombija. Shah represents the informal sector while Salim and Okal represent the private sector and neighbourhood communities respectively. Okelo was representing town associations and Ochola professionals. Akoko was under the individual member categories alongside Gumbe, Ombija, Ochome, Adul and Olende. Ager said the position previously reserved for representatives of urban dwellers will be removed and the executive of Urban development be incorporated in the board. “Following the concluded review, the Council of Governors sought the Attorney General's advice in regard to the implementation of the same. The advised that all counties with city boards and town committees must commence immediate compliance with the new law,” Ager said. This directive, Ager said, has therefore necessitated reorganisation of Kisumu City Board. “The county government wishes to thank the duo for their commitment to duty and enthusiasm to the development of the city during the period that they served the city as board members.”  edited by peter obuya