Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi has asked Deputy President William Ruto to exit the political scene with President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2022. ODM leader Raila Odinga should also quit politics as he fired his last bullet in the 2017 general election, he said. Mudavadi added his voice to former Kiambu Governor William Kabogo who has also called on the DP to quit when Uhuru leaves office. Former Jubilee vice chair David Murathe has made a similar call. Mudavadi asked President Kenyatta to “reduce handshakes and ensure those implicated in graft are arrested.” Mudavadi, speaking in Springfield, Massachusetts in the US, implored Kenyans in the diapsora to back his 2022 State House bid saying he is the best bet to fight corruption. “We will deal with impunity and trust me to fight corruption and impunity. I have done it before, I have a track record,” the former Vice President said. He pledged, if elected to office, to run a government that adheres to the requirements of Chapter Six of the Constitution on leadership and integrity. “We will have to make sure that we are not operating a State House the way US President Donald Trump is operating the White House.” Mudavadi rallied the diaspora to help him influence voters to choose the right leaders to change Kenya for the better. On Friday, the Amani leader was expected to open the Kenya diaspora conference in New Jersey before meeting with investors later in the day. A similar meeting was planned for New York. “You supported Obama here and it was not about tribe or money. Why not do it for me too?” he asked. Mudavadi, in his rallying call on Thursday, revisited the Goldenberg scandal saying it was the hallmark of his fight against corruption and fraud. He reiterated his whistleblower role in the scheme, narrating how he occasioned the closure of a network of banks that were part of the fraud. “The person who stopped Goldneberg is me. I was 29. There were fictitious claims in a scheme known as export compensation. When I went in, I realised it was a fraud.” “I had to sign off and close all those banks in order to shut theft of Kenyan money. People say I was part of Goldenberg, no! I killed it. When I was in government there was a commission of inquiry and for three years the person who stopped Goldenberg was subjected to inquiry,” the ANC boss said. The former VP criticised the Jubilee administration for underfunding agencies tasked with the fight against corruption at the expense of huge funding for fictitious projects. “If you took the cash for the fictitious Kimwarer dam and gave to Judiciary, imagine how much you will have contributed to justice in Kenya,” Mudavadi said in a push for increased allocation to the institutions to enable them fight corruption. “Allocations going to these institutions in my government will be adequate to allow them fight corruption. I will make decisions work,” the ANC leader said. He was accompanied by a team of political strategists as well as ANC secretary general Barrack Muluka, Sabatia MP Alfred Agoi, Nambale MP Bunyasi Sakwa and former Lamu Governor Issa Timamy. The sentiments came at a time the party is campaigning to seize the Kibra seat from ODM following the death of MP Ken Okoth. The party is represented in the race by Raila’s former aide Eliud Owalo who has promised to turn things around for residents of the slum constituency.