The state has announced fresh disarmament in Kerio Valley where an estimated 8,000 guns are in the hands of bandits and other civilians. An amnesty given by the government for voluntary surrender of illegal firearms expires on Monday. Elgeyo Marakwet county commissioner Ahmed Omar says the disarmament will commence immediately. “We had extended the amnesty severally but most of the illegal guns are yet to be returned and so the disarmament will proceed,” Omar told a baraza in Tot in Kerio Valley on Thursday. More than 500 police officers have been mobilised to look for the guns. The government will use the National Intelligence Service to locate the hidden weapons. Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos said his administration fully supports efforts by the state to rid the region of the illegal guns. The weapons have been used to kill about 200 people in the last one year. “What we want is for the exercise to be carried out in a civilized manner where innocent people will not be harassed. We also urge those still holding guns illegally to surrender them to police voluntarily,” Tolgos said. The government carried out barazas to sensitize residents on the disarmament and to urge those with the illegal arms to surrender them. “Residents should not panic or be worried because the security agencies know what to do. We will target those with the illegal guns which have been misused against our people,” Omar said. This year the state has only managed to get about 200 illegal guns and Omar has vowed that the government will wipe out the arms from the region. Residents while supporting the disarmament however expressed fear that security teams may use excessive and unnecessary force. Rift Valley regional coordinator George Natembeya visited the region one month ago and directed chiefs to ensure they identify illegal gun holders within their areas. “You cannot claim not to know people holding guns illegally yet you know other details like who is pregnant in your location,” he said. He directed county commissioners in Elgeyo Marakwet, Baringo, West Pokot and Turkana counties to ensure all illegal arms are seized. Last month, Deputy President William Ruto was at Chesogon market where he witnesses Elgeyo Marakwet and Pokot leaders sign a peace accord to end banditry that has stalled most development activities in the area. “We are fully committed to ensure return of peace and security in Kerio Valley and that is why we are working with the government on the security issue,” Tolgos said. He said since the signing of the peace accord, banditry incidents had drastically reduced.