Newly elected Kenya Professional Boxing Commission chairman Reuben Ndolo has promised to help the country rediscover its lost glory in the bare-chested game. Ndolo made the remarks after recapturing the top post unopposed during elections held at Nyayo Stadium and presided over by Brian Weke on behalf of Capacity Building Agency and Consulting Limited. Ndolo said his key priority in the next four years will be to bring the boxing world to Kenya. “We don’t have to take our boxers outside for title fights because they end up being punching bags for foreigners. Let the world come to Kenya and this will truly boost the sport immensely. We want to clean the house and groom young boxers to take up the sport of pro boxing. We have the goodwill, connection and as you all know pro boxing is business,” he said. Ndolo takes over from Hilary Alila who didn’t seek re-election. Alila said they achieved a lot albeit below their target. “I wish to thank boxers and the entire fraternity for giving me the opportunity to serve them over the past five years. Despite hard times, we managed to bring gigantic titles fights to Kenya. Several boxers also travelled overseas for fights. We established good working relationships between promoters and boxers and intervened where possible,” Alila said. Ndolo added that they are setting up a secretariat that will be run by a CEO to deal with the day-to-day operations. Veteran promoter Franklin Imbenzi aka Kuka was re-elected the secretary-general after beating Abdullah Kent 50-0. Ahmed Yasin is the new vice-chairman replacing George Adipom who defeated the opponent 47-2 on the count. The new treasurer is Purity Gacheri, who was elected unopposed and will replace Bernadette Kaloki who didn’t seek re-election. Gacheri will be deputised by Frederick Simwata, who beat Lucas Omondi 31-9. Veteran coach Julius Odhiambo was elected the assistant secretary. Zack Oduor becomes the new patron while Samuel Gitau and referee & Judge Linda Abok join the new team as committee members. The post of KPBC chairman has previously been held by Joe Aketch, Memba Muriuki, the late Orwa, Ndolo and Alila.