Taita Taveta Governor Granton Samboja has been asked to open dialogue with Members of County Assembly to end the budget impasse. The call came from former governor John Mruttu, former senator Dan Mwazo and former Wundanyi MP Thomas Mwadeghu. The standoff has stalled services in the county. Others who have called for dialogue are former Mwatate MP Calist Mwatela, former Woman Representative Joyce Lay and Voi businessman Khamisi Chome. The leaders also asked the governor to respect the clergy. The governor wants the county government dissolved. Last week, the governor told off the clergy for pushing for his resignation. “We are not looking back on this journey to liberate our county from selfish individuals who have taken my administration hostage. The clergy can threaten me, give all manner of ultimatums but we shall not be swayed,” Samboja said. He accused the religious leader of being dishonest with their call for dialogue, claiming that they are being used by his political enemies. “The same clerics were part of our consultative team that agree on dissolution. Why are they exhibiting ignorance and double speak when they are supposed to show their followers the right path?” the county boss asked. The clergy led by Taita Taveta County Bishops Chairman Ronald Itambo had asked Samboja to resign for failing to dialogue with warring MCAs. They said Samboja had proved to be unable to lead the county government thereby opting for dissolution. The county boss has however maintained that dissolution would create room for new polls thus bringing sanity in the county. Taita Taveta senator Jones Mwaruma, legislators Andrew Mwadime (Mwatate), Jones Mlolwa(Voi) and Danson Mwashako(Wundanyi) are in support of the dissolution while Woman Representative Lydia Haika and Taveta MP Naomi Shabaan are rooting for dialogue. A mediation team constituting of ODM leader Raila Odinga and Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa that was set to ensure that the existing deadlock is solved amicably is yet to start its meetings.