Kenya Hockey Union (KHU) men’s Premier League defending champions Butali Warriors are looking to build on their recent 6-0 victory over Parklands as they take on United States International University at City Park Stadium tomorrow. Butali lead the log with 24 points from 10 matches with eight games to go and they are yet to lose a match this season. Coach Dennis Owoka has predicted a tough match following their 3-3 all draw in the first leg but disclosed that his troops are ready for the battle. The coach has promised to take a cautious approach in the reverse fixture and will be boosted by top scorer George Mutira, who is back after a one-match ban. “We expect a tough match but our resilience should aid us get the three points. We were watchful in the first leg but we will throw everything at them this time. We hope to launch a three-pronged attack from the first whistle and strive to sustain it. We’ve worked on our fitness and set pieces and we are all set . Thank God we have no injuries or suspensions at the moment,” he said. Elsewhere, second placed Wazalendo confront coach Timothy Kamar’s Sailors today as they seek to return to their winning ways following a 2-1 shock defeat against Strathmore University last weekend. Wazalendo won 4-3 in the last tie against the same side. Kakamega-based Western Jaguars host Parklands in a tricky-looking rendezvous. The young side are hard to defeat at home but Parklands seem confident following the return of striker Allan Odongo from injury. In the women category, in-form USIU-A Spartans will fancy their chance against Sliders. The students have scored seven goals in the last two matches and are favoured to win. Striker Vivian Esimi of USIU is out injured. Men Super League side, Bungoma Farmers and Mvita have double assignments. Bungoma host Kenya College of Accountancy University (KCAU) and Technical University of Kenya. Mvita take on Multimedia University and Impala as Kisumu Youngsters battle TUK. Leaders Parkroad have a date with Kenyatta University. In the corresponding women fixtures, MMU clash with Nakuru, TUK have a showdown with Wolverines as Mombasa Sports Club entertain University of Nairobi. Men’s national league side University of Eldoret play Thika Rovers.