Meru leaders are divided on the push for a referendum to change the Constitution. This played out during the burial of Peter Linturi, the father of Meru Senator Mithika Linturi. The Punguza Mizigo Bill is currently being debated by the county assemblies and the Building Bridges Initiative task force has yet to produce its report. Governors also plan to separately push for a vote. Some politicians said they will have to wait for the BBI report before they can decide.  Buuri MP Mugambi Rindikiri was noncommittal, saying he will have to wait and see if to support the Punguza Mizigo Bill. His Igembe South counterpart John Paul Mwirigi said they will support a referendum that will reduce the wage bill. Tharaka Nithi Governor Muthomi Njuki questioned why there was no referendum in 2013 or 2017. “There is a cycle of referendums every time we need to change the leadership of the country because it's inevitable,” he said. Njuki said he will support the Ugatuzi Initiative being championed by governors, as it seeks to add more funds to the devolved units. Wading into the debate, Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi, who is the chairman of the Ugatuzi Initiative, said they will push for their own referendum. But Akachiu MCA Mithika Mucheke said many MCAs will support the Punguza Mizigo Bill. He cautioned the National Assembly to prepare for a battle of titans in 2022. "We've been having a revenue stalemate because the National Assembly refused to give more allocation to counties,” Mucheke said. For his part, however, DP William Ruto said the handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and former Prime minister Raila Odinga is the genesis of the referendum debate. "We were focused on development but since some people joined us, our focus as Jubilee has shifted to a plebiscite. You know those responsible. They are now confused whether to support Punguza Mizigo, Ugatuzi or Building Bridges,” he said. Kiraitu said he feels bad about the infighting in Jubilee. He was one of the people who oversaw the merging of 13 parties to form the outfit. "I've been keeping quiet because I feel a lot of pain. I'm perplexed and confused because the party we struggled so much to build has left us as gatecrashers. We don't know what is going on," he said. He urged President Uhuru Kenyatta and Ruto to call for a meeting to iron end the differences. "If they want to wreck the party, then you should tell us in advance so that I can go back to my APK [Mbus]," he said. But Ruto sought to assure Kiraitu that Jubilee will remain intact. He said the feuds are 'small matters' that will be settled. (Edited by F'Orieny)