Mauricio Pochettino admitted Tottenham ‘were nearly on the floor’ following the uncertainty hanging over his squad in the opening weeks of the season. But following his side’s north London derby draw with Arsenal and with the European transfer window closing on Monday he declared Spurs’ season starts now. Pochettino revealed he held ‘positive’ clear-the-air talks with chairman Daniel Levy following a summer during which he struggled to keep a lid on his frustrations about the progress of the club. Doubts about the future of a number of his players, notably midfielder Christian Eriksen, further increased Pochettino’s annoyance. And though he stopped short of confirming Eriksen was staying he dropped a big hint by starting him for just the second time this season against Arsenal and insisting it would now be ‘difficult’ for him to depart. Pochettino said: “I’m so happy because the transfer window is over. We have massive quality, we need to be all in the same page. We start from tomorrow being all on the same page, working hard to win games and be in a position we deserve to be.” Looking forward, I’m very optimistic, I’m so happy with the squad we have. We only can improve.” “I think we were nearly on the floor, and now we are going to improve. We have recovered the good feelings after Newcastle and a very tough summer ­— all that happened in these last four weeks.” Asked specifically about Eriksen, who had attracted varying degrees of interest from Real Madrid, Paris Saint-Germain, Juventus and Manchester United, Pochettino said: “There is still one day to do. I don’t want to say it’s impossible but it’s going to be difficult. I am optimistic. I hope in 24 hours everything will be clearer for everyone.” Pochettino ended the day in an upbeat mood despite seeing his side surrender a two-goal lead at the Emirates against their biggest rivals. Spurs punished Arsenal errors to race into a 2-0 first-half lead. Eriksen capitalised on poor defending and Harry Kane profited to score from the spot after Granit Xhaka’s needless foul on Heung-min Son. But Alexandre Lacazette pulled one back before half time and Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang equalised with 19 minutes left. Arsenal head coach Unai Emery urged his side to learn from their costly mistakes. He said: “After 2-0 down we can be very proud of our response and the atmosphere we created and how our supporters pushed us to this way after our goal to get the second goal and have chances to score the third. The result, we deserved more. We played a lot with our heart. We didn’t control our head in the first half. Some mistakes we can have and I want to use to progress and improve.”