Learning in schools located in the disputed settlements in Mau Forest has been marred by low turnout. The government had ordered that the 15 schools in various parts of Narok South which had earlier been closed be reopened. Rift Valley regional commissioner George Natembeya had said the schools were illegal and asked families to look for alternative schools for their children A spot check by the Star at Chebirbelek, Kitoben and Kebeneti primary schools found only a handful of pupils who had reported to school for the third term. Other schools that were reopened are Kirobon, Senetwet, Lelechwet, Olabai, Koitabai, Sebetet, Chorwet, Ogilgei, Noosogami, Kabarak, Indiat and Chebetet. On Thursday, security officers patrolled various parts of the Mau forest ahead of the government’s planned phase two eviction exercise. Armed rangers from the Kenya Forest Service went door to door asking occupants to pack and leave as choppers conducted air surveillance in the vast area. It is the presence of these officers in the area that has caused panic among the residents and scared away pupils from going to their schools. A teacher in one of the primary schools said most schools had registered a meagre 30 per cent turnout of the children since Monday. “There has been an extremely low turnout among children in the majority of the schools here. In a class of 40 pupils you can only find 10-15 of them suggesting some fear coming to school because of the security presence,” he said. Some of the parents interviewed said they feared the officers as some were heavy-handed, while their young children did not want to go to school alone. They want the Environment Cabinet Secretary Keriako Tobiko to remove the officers from the ground if they were keen on having children go back to school. Mary Koskei, a parent, said they no longer live in peace but in fear of being attacked. She claimed that the officers were under strict instructions to demolish and burn down their houses. “If the government is serious about having our children at school, they should have these officers removed. They have also imposed curfews that we should not be out by 6pm,” she said. The government maintains the eviction will kick off after the lapse of the 60-day window period. Among the homesteads which the rangers visited is that of Segemian ward MCA Wesley Koech whom they gave a one-day ultimatum to vacate. Koech who had earlier on joined MPs Ronald Tonui (Bomet Central), Dominic Koskei (Sotik) and Joseph Ruto (Kuresoi South) in the area said he received a call from his wife that about 50 armed officers had camped outside his house demanding they leave the area immediately. "When I returned to my house at around 2pm, I found them outside. They told me to pack my belongings and leave but I told them I am not going anywhere since I was rightfully there," he said. Addressing the press at his home, Koech promised to stay put since he was not living on forest land. “This has been my home for many years. My parents lived here, so if they want to burn this house as they have been doing let them do so,” he said. He said he will continue defending the rights of his electorate despite the government’s insistence that people must leave. Koech said he and other settlers had all the valid documents to prove they rightfully own the lands. (edited by O. Owino)