Suspects in the Sh72 million heist who had not secured Sh1 million bond will now  deposit half the amount after the court reviewed the terms. The review on Tuesday came following an application by the defence after only two of the nine suspects raised the bond. “I have considered that the seven who have been in police custody for about two weeks do not have the capacity to secure Sh1 million bond. They will deposit Sh500,000 bond and two similar sureties,” chief magistrate Francis Andayi said. The nine are charged with robbery with violence at a Milimani court earlier this month. They were each granted Sh1 million bond despite the prosecution opposing their release, claiming that they were a flight risk and likely to interfere with investigations. “The state has no right to interfere with the fundamental rights of accused persons,” the defence said on the contrary. In his ruling, Andayi said he was unsatisfied with the reasons given by the state for their further detention and asked the suspects to report to the DCI daily for the next seven days. The nine, including three police officers, with others allegedly robbed G4S staff of Sh74 million and 38 cassettes, 13 purge bins and 13 canvas bags all totaling to Sh75.9 million. Prosecutors say they were in possession of dangerous weapons including firearms and threatened to use violence on the staff during the raid on September 5. In the second count, the nine were charged with malicious damage to property. The court heard that on the day, the suspects destroyed 36 cassettes and 11 purge bins, the property of G4S valued at Sh1,267,000 in Thogoto forest, Kiambu. They all pleaded not guilty and through their lead lawyer Cliff Ombeta asked the court to give them lenient bail terms as they are paid low salaries. Detectives are investigating the theft of Sh74 million in transit from the G4S headquarters on Witu Road and an ATM in Nairobi West belonging to Standard Chartered Bank. It was previously reported as Sh72 million, but court documents say Sh74 million cash was stolen. Bernard Mwenda, Benson Makokha and Nahashon Mutua, jointly with others, allegedly robbed G4S staff of Sh74 million and 38 cassettes, 13 purge bins and 13 canvas bags — all totalling Sh75.9 million.