A family in Naivasha is mourning their four-year-old son who drowned during a school trip for children with special needs. The family has accused Little Hands Academy located near Naivasha town of negligence following the death of Dalton Gichimu who lived with autism. His body was recovered from River Malewa on Monday evening by police and members of the public as the parents tried to come to terms with the painful loss. Emotions ran high as the parents and friends pointed an accusing finger at the school, which has a wing for children with special needs. The children had been taken to a camping site near the river when the minor allegedly slipped into the river and the water swept away. Paul Macharia Gichimu, the father, wondered why the school chose the site in the first place. He said parents were not aware their children had been taken for the picnic until the tragedy struck. “The area has a very steep cliff that drops into the river and it’s even unsafe for adults. I wonder why the management settled for the location in the first place,” he said. Macharia said his son needed special care, which was why they settled for the school. “It took the teachers over an hour to realize that my son was missing and by the time they tracked him they found the body floating in a section of the river,” he said. The father of three termed the incident the lowest moment of his life, adding that he had so much hope in the boy. “Despite suffering from autism Dalton had special talent and was a joy to the family and my prayers is that no other parent will undergo the pain that we are currently undergoing,” he said. Naivasha OCPD Samuel Waweru confirmed the incident, adding that an inquest file had been opened. “We have embarked on our own investigations to determine if there was negligence on the part of the school and if there was any definitely the law will take its course,” he said. A teacher at the school who declined to be named said that they were still in shock as they had never recorded anything of the kind in the school’s history. “We have decided to mourn in silence with the parents and it’s an incident that has left us shaken as none of the teachers realised that the minor had slipped from the other students,” the teacher said.