Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago wants 700 interns who had been attached to the county government to leave immediately. They were hired under a one-year internship programme but refused to vacate at the expiry of their terms. Under the county programme, degree holders are offered a monthly stipend of Sh15,000, while diploma holders earn Sh13,000. The interns worked in different departments and their contracts expired three months ago. Most of them say they had been used to working at the county government and fear going back home to idle. "Our parents even believed we got jobs. It'll be difficult for us to go and idle back at home. We had hoped the county would absorb us," one intern said. But Mandago ordered them to leave immediately and stop pestering him to employ them on permanent terms. He said the county had offered the programme to help them gain experience and the agreement they signed did not provide for employment upon expiry of their terms. "They should pave the way for others to also come and gain experience," Mandago said at the launch of Sh56 million county revolving fund for youth training. He accused the interns of refusing to leave the county offices. “I don’t want to see them loitering here again. We had a clear agreement, which has ended and they should just quit as agreed," he said. Mandago said some of the interns had even gone to the extent of sending him text messages at night and asking him to order for their employment on a permanent basis. “Let them be told that it's not possible.” The county is already grappling with a bloated workforce and MCAs have formed a committee to investigate the burgeoning wage bill, which is now 40 per cent of the county budget — 10 more than the 30 per cent limit. Mandago said his administration is in the process of advertising another 700 slots to be filled by another batch of qualified interns. "We'll have a new team interviewed and recruited within the next month." He urged the youth and other jobseekers to export their knowledge, skills and talent to other regions beyond the Rift Valley so they integrate with other Kenyans. "Don’t keep loitering here at the county government, yet you can go to Mandera, Garissa or elsewhere to get jobs...," he said, adding that many of the jobseekers had never travelled beyond Eldoret, thus limiting themselves to the few opportunities in the region. "A few of them who manage to travel to Nairobi only look for Uhuru Park and then make calls to be picked from there because they don't know any place." (Edited by F'Orieny)