The Siaya government will build at least 30km of roads as part of Governor Cornell Rasanga's legacy. In this regard, the department of public works and roads has set aside Sh1 billion in the 2019-20 financial year. Addressing residents on Wednesday, Rasanga said this will be done before 2022. During the previous year, the department spent Sh620 million on the opening of 173 kilometres of roads. The department also spent Sh500 million on the maintenance of 1,099 kilometres of roads translating to an absorption rate of 58 per cent of the 2018-19 budget. According to public works and roads chief officer James Onyango, this year's focus will be given to major roads such as Opoda-Bondo road at  Sh30 million. Onyango added that they will also construct Kalkada Bridge at a tune of Sh25 million as one of the major projects lined up this financial year. The chief officer said other major projects lined up this financial year include completion of Yala ring road at Sh15 million. "We are also expecting to upgrade Rabango-Kodiaga road to bitumen standards at a cost of Sh7 million and the construction of the parking bay at Siaya and Bondo towns," Onyango said. Rasanga said the completion of the roads will help residents to access health facilities and enhance response to distress calls. The governor noted that access to market centres will be easy, hence enhancing trading and thus the economy. The county chief added that the opening of roads to beaches and tourist sites will also enhance fishing and tourism. "We have put measures to address some of the challenges the county is facing to improve performance in terms of projects implementation," Rasanga said. There is also the  Sh300 million water project targeting homes, schools, and hospitals. Rasanga said part of his legacy is to ensure there is clean water in the entire county to curb diseases. “The project ensured 9,000 residents per ward access clean water in the first phase,” he said. Rasanga said in areas where there is no piped water he will ensure that solar-powered water projects are installed to serve the community. The governor added that it is regrettable that Siaya imports virtually all types of food yet the county is in a position to produce its own crops and even have a surplus through irrigation. He said the Africa Development Bank will fund another project at Sh1.3 billion which will be the main trunk line that will cover Magoya, Got Osimbo, Ugunja, Ligega, Sega, and Yenga.