Gor Mahia are appealing to Football Kenya Federation to quickly facilitate the treatment of right-back Philemon Otieno. The defender suffered a nasty knee injury against Tanzania in a 2020 Chan qualifier match played on August 4 at the Moi Stadium Kasarani. Otieno was part of the Harambee Stars squad which represented the country at the 32nd edition of the Africa Cup of Nations in Egypt. He played in two group stage matches against Algeria where he clocked 90 minutes and was sent off in the second half against Senegal. The versatile player, who also plays as a holding midfielder, has been Stars first choice right-back since last year but tore his Anterior Cruciate Ligament (ACL) against Tanzania. Surgery was recommended to the former Ushuru player with the federation expected to foot his medical bills. Earlier on, FKF was reported to be finalising their plans to have him flown to France for the surgery but it’s yet to be effected. The Nick Mwendwa-led federation catered for Brain Mandela’s medical bills after the South Africa-based centre half suffered a knee injury while in camp ahead of the Afcon finals and the same was expected to be extended to his fellow defender. Gor, who are seeking to qualify for the group stages of the Caf Champions League are piling pressure on FKF to save their player from early retirement. The club says they are in dire need of his services. In Otieno’s absence, Gor turned to Wellington Ochieng to fill in the void. “Otieno is a valuable player to us and we are missing his services. We released a fully fit player to the national team and promised to cater for his medical bills. I did a letter to them (FKF) requesting them to hasten the process but they are yet to respond.’’ Said Gor’s Chief Executive Officer Lordvick Aduda. Aduda, in the meantime, downplayed blocking their players from honouring national team obligations. “We have been allowing our player to join Stars camp on time in the past.We can not refuse to release players to the national team. Its against the Fifa rules which direct clubs to release players on time.”