President Uhuru Kenyatta has directed the Kenyan flag be flown half-mast at State House this weekend following the death of former Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe on Friday. Mugabe died in a Singapore hospital aged 95. He had been receiving treatment since April. The directive will be in force until Monday evening. It also applies to all Kenyan public buildings and grounds, military posts, naval stations, and naval vessels. Flags are usually flown half-mast as a show of respect, mourning, distress or salute. In a statement, Uhuru said this is a mark of respect for Mugabe, whom he described as a hero, a friend of Kenya and an icon that led Zimbabwe in its liberation struggle. "He was also an embodiment of the Pan-African spirit, offering immeasurable assistance to his neighbour South Africa in their struggle to end apartheid, and in his steady insistence that Africa's problems required African solutions," he said. The President sent his condolences to his widow Grace and the people of Zimbabwe. He said Mugabe spent his lifetime challenging Africa to stand tall and find its place and voice among the community of nations. He said Mugabe will also be remembered for nurturing a strong and growing relationship between Kenya and Zimbabwe. He said the two countries enjoy strong cordial relations founded on their shared struggle against colonialism and for self-determination. "For those and many other achievements, he will be fondly missed and remembered," Uhuru said. Mugabe's successor, Emmerson Mnangagwa, expressed his "utmost sadness", calling Mugabe "Zimbabwe's founding father" and "an icon of liberation". Mnangagwa replaced Mugabe in a 2017 coup from his own ruling party Zanu-PF after a 37-year rule. He confirmed his death on Friday via social media. "His contribution to the history of our nation and continent will never be forgotten. May his soul rest in peace," a tweet from Mnangagwa read. Retired President Mwai Kibaki also sent his condolences to the people of Zimbabwe and the family and friends of the late head of state. He described his death as the end of an era in Africa closing the chapter of Africa's founding presidents whose commitment to the emancipation of the people of Africa "remains enduringly remarkable". Kibaki said Mugabe stood for the greater good of Africa — his share of downsides aside. "In spite of the sentiments of those who serially vilified him, Mugabe will be best remembered for courageously defending the dignity of the African people. Embedded in his story are valuable lessons worth celebrating. May Robert Mugabe rest in eternal peace," he said. Former Prime Minister Raila Odinga described Mugabe as a liberation hero who, like others, made mistakes during his reign. "I wish to pass my condolences to the people of Zimbabwe following the death of their founding father H.E. Robert Mugabe. We join the country in praying for peace and stability at this moment of national grief," he said in a tweet. However, reacting to news of his death, some people felt Mugabe had made more than 'mistakes'. "As the generation who are inheriting fruits of poor leadership, we will not idolise such leaders. The truth will set us free. And we say the Late Mugabe was a bad leader and failed Zimbabwe and the great citizens and Africa at large!" said a tweet in reaction to Raila's post. Another comment read, "He left a rotten country ... We are suffering. We, being killed in SA, our generation will continue to suffer just because of one man." There were others, however, who praised Mugabe for his leadership. A comment read, "RIP Mugabe, thanks for land distribution, it's now up to us to guard it with all means necessary." Another said, "I’m joining the rest of the world in the commemoration of a great orator, our former President of Zimbabwe Robert Gabriel Mugabe. He fought his fight, now it’s our turn!" (Edited by F'Orieny)