KENYA Power is no doubt one of the biggest state corporations in Kenya. However, some say its staff have complete disregard for their customers. Clients are reportedly left unattended to at exactly 12.40pm as staff go for lunch. They resume at 1.45pm. Does this mean the company has no plan to have a few staff attend to customers during this one hour? Can’t employees go for lunch in batches? To make matters worse, those left unserved are forced out of the building as the cameras are ‘watching’ and no one is allowed to sit back. Acting MD Jared Othieno (pictured) needs to do something. EARLIER this week we told you of accountability challenges brewing at a public university in Rift Valley. It has emerged that the relatively new university is actually in the North Rift. Talk of another grand heist. Sources whispered to Corridors that an internal audit shows council members have pocketed millions in sitting allowances through what are believed to be fictitious meetings. For instance, between June and July 2017, the council members met for a record 11 times. However, regulations stipulate that the council can only meet at most five times a year. DID MCAs from a Western county travel to Nairobi to receive a bribe to save an executive from impeachment? Well, the lawmakers took the trip to meet a contractor whose work was subject of the probe for which the CEC member faced removal from office. The contractor, who unsuccessfully bid for a political seat in the same county, won the tender for the project in question. However, he was paid for the project design beyond the market rate, sparking an audit query on the huge variation. The MCAs, to let the executive off the hook, compelled the contractor to pay them Sh350,000 each and Sh2 million for their speaker for them to go slow on the CEC member. WAS a West African deported under the orders of a senior trade unionist? A little bird whispered to Corridors that the man was messing around with the sweetheart of the unionist whom he is said to have “invested in heavily”. Call it harvesting where you have not sown. It remains unclear what buttons the influential trade unionist pressed to have his adversary kicked out. However, those in the know say the incident serves to demonstrate how powerful some people are in Kenya and why people should “stick to their lanes”. Just like lions, human beings don’t tolerate male competitors.