Chuka University in Tharaka Nithi county is a prophecy come true if the words of its current vice chancellor Erastus Njoka are anything to go by. The university is located at Ndagani, a walking distance from Chuka town. According to Njoka, the university was foretold in 1951 by a famous local philanthropist and seer called Jerusha Kanyua, who said that a mountain would come up at the locality. The University was established as a constituent College of Egerton University in 2004 and was granted charter 2008. Currently, the institution has surpassed its mother university Egerton (Njoro) in terms of enrollment and facilities. A 16 storey male hostel in the university is currently one of the tallest buildings in the country, thanks to Njoka’s unwavering determination to steer the institution of higher learning into greater heights of prosperity. Yet another latest development for the institution is the move to improve security within and outside its vicinity to ensure safety for both students and neighbouring members of the public. While addressing stakeholders recently, during the launching of five floodlights constructed at a cost of  Sh12.1 million, Njoka said they wished to increase security in the locality by installing 96 CCTV cameras. "The five floodlights will help the 96 cameras we are about to put around the university. Several complaints have reached my office of some people selling drugs within Ndagani but with enough lighting, these criminals will desist from coming into our institution," the VC said. He said Ndagani had been a dark market despite giving out a huge bunch of revenue to the county government, but now businesses will be uplifted to a 24-hour economy after being lit by one of the floods lights. Late last year, the university purchased two ultra-modern fire engines at a cost of Sh70 million in a bid to contain fire incidents in case of outbreaks within and outside the institution. The VC said the two fire engines including a Rapid Intervention Vehicle will serve the university and the community including the neighbouring counties to ensure that residents do not lose life or property to fires. Indeed, Chuka University has acquired a soil scanner that links with a laboratory in the Netherlands to produce immediate effects. The scanner is used in learning and helping farmers in the county and its environs to carry out soil tests before planting for increased productivity. “The scanner is capable of rapidly informing farmers of the futility of planting a certain crop within a certain piece of land and if local agricultural officers would utilise it, we can improve our crop productivity to astronomical levels,” the VC said. The handheld device is first connected to a Smartphone via Bluetooth then placed on soil sample for analysis of main micronutrients needed for plant growth. After a few minutes, it advises on the farm inputs that should be used to boost fertility of the soil. Others developments taking shape at the university include a science park, the skyscraper student hostels, a food technology complex and a three million litre capacity water tank that will completely change the facelift of the institution of in the near future. During a recent visit, the Eastern Region Development Implementation Coordination Committee (RDICC) was impressed by the tremendous levels that national government projects in the university have reached. The committee hailed the VC for efficient management of government resources that have led to commendable progress of mega projects in the institution. “Other institutions in the nation should borrow a leaf from this University to ensure efficient utilisation of government funds,” said the Eastern (RDICC) chairman Isaiah Nakoru.