LG Electronics East Africa is keen to build a stable base at the coastal region with the recent opening of its new shop in Mombasa. Located at the Palm Breeze building along Links road, near the Nyali Centre, the shop is LG's first outlet outside Nairobi. It is the sixth of 10 planned shops in East and Central Africa by the electronics giant. LG Electronics East Africa public relations and marketing manager Maureen Kemunto said this is part of their retail expansion program, which was announced two years ago. Kemunto said Mombasa provides a market whose full potential is yet to be exploited. “There is a great opportunity that exists in Mombasa. We are responding to the needs of our clientele who had been calling for the establishment of a brand shop in this county,” Kemunto said. The county government said: “We have to diversify our economy. That is what the Governor is trying to achieve not only for Mombasa but also for the whole Coast region.” The LG brand shop is the fourth LG Electronics outlet in Kenya. The other three are in Nairobi.Two years ago, LG Electronics announced that it seeks to open 10 shops in East Africa. Since then, they have opened three shops in South Sudan, one on Djibouti, and one in Uganda as the company seeks to cement its position and presence in the East African market. The newest store in Mombasa is an indication of the country's attractiveness and its position as a regioinal commercial hub.The opening of the shop came two weeks after South Africa's retail chain Shoprite opened its first store in Mombasa. The retailer took over the space formerly occupied by struggling Nakumatt at the City Mall, in Nyali's affluent neighbourhood.Kemunto said all types of home appliances will be available at the LG brand shop including the latest LG 8K series TV and the NanoCell TV in the home entertainment segment. The manager said the demand for the shop was high prompting the management to tap into the prime Nyali area to locate the shop. “We are very optimistic as a brand that this is actually going to bring about turnaround not only to our customers but also to the county,” said Kemunto.