Police coach Patrick Mugambi has said his injury hit squad and inconsistency will not be an excuse as they play defending champions Butali in the Kenya Hockey Union men’s Premier League match tomorrow at the City Park Stadium. The law enforcers will be without the injured defensive pair of Robert Masibo and Kennedy Kibweche while Willis Okeyo and Striker Titus Kimutai will play with knocks. The sugar men prevailed 2-1 in the first leg as Barnabas Odhiambo and Amos Barkibir’s goals proved decisive. Mugambi said he expects his side to beat seasoned rivals as long as they mark former strikers Calvins Kanu and Amos Barkibir. He said: “They robbed us three points last time and they should not expect a repeat. We can’t cry because of injuries. We are going to play for pride and put our best foot forward. Results have not been good but that should not be a cause for concern. Stopping Kanu and Barkibir will be key because they are the best strikers in the league and they know our style of play as well.” His counterpart Denis Owoka expects a tough battle. He believes Police will attack from the onset but remained bullish of keeping their good run. He said: “Police are struggling. I can’t remember them dropping so many points at the midway mark. We expect them to come full force and try to regain their foothold but  we have prepared and ready for them. We won the first leg and beat them in the Nakuru tourney as well. A third win is highly possible.” Elsewhere, second-placed Wazalendo face struggling former champions Strathmore Gladiators. Fidelis Kimanzi’s men are flying high and can easily put Meshack Senge’s troops to the sword. They won 1-0 during the first leg and the students will put a fight in the hope of salvaging their poor season. Sikh Union will hope to put their disappointing 3-0 loss against Wazalendo last weekend behind them when they take on United States International University (USIU). The students have been out of action for a month and could be fresh to get all the points.