President Uhuru Kenyatta has sent his condolences to the families of seven pupils who lost their lives after a classroom wall collapsed at Precious Talent Academy in Dagoretti, Nairobi County. The President said that state agencies are taking urgent actions to contain the situation. "My heartfelt condolences and deepest sympathies to families of the children affected by the tragedy at Precious Talent Academy in Dagoretti. Our agencies are taking urgent actions to contain the situation and alleviate further suffering." Uhuru said. ODM party leader Raila Odinga said it was heartbreaking to lose young Kenyans in such a tragedy, adding that the country has to explain how the incident happened. "My deep and heartfelt condolences to the parents and guardians of pupils who have unfortunately perished at Precious Talent Academy in Dagoretti. May God grant them strength as they struggle with this tragedy. I wish all those injured a quick recovery," Raila said. Deputy President William Ruto said the country must ensure that the learning environment for students is safe. "Condolences to the families that have lost their loved ones in the unfortunate incident at Precious Talent School, Nairobi County. Quick recovery to the injured. Concerned agencies have been mobilised to address the situation. We must create safe spaces for our children to learn," Ruto said. Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko through a statement passed his message of condolences to the affected parents, guardians, teachers, pupils and the entire school community. "Our thoughts and prayers are with all the injured as they receive treatment, and all the pupils as they come to terms with the traumatic incident that they witnessed this morning," Sonko said. The governor said that he is committed to working closely with the Ministry of Education and national government departments to ensure that incidences of the same kind will not happen again. "As your Governor, I wish to assure you all as residents of Nairobi that I will not leave any stone unturned until we reverse the effects of the impunity that was spearheaded by the Planning Department," Sonko said. Nairobi Woman Representative Esther Passaris who also visited the scene said students have to learn in a conducive environment. "Saddened by the tragic loss of young lives at Precious Talent School this morning. My deepest sympathies to the families affected by this disaster. The school environment should be safe for ALL students at ALL times. This is utterly unacceptable," Passaris said. "My heart goes out to the parents and guardians who have lost their kids in the Precious Talent Academy in Dagoreti incident; you are in my thoughts and prayers. I’m sorry for your loss and pray that God gives you the courage to sail through these rough waters," Siaya Senator James Orengo tweeted. Bungoma Senator Moses Wetangula said those behind the shoddy construction must be held accountable. " Its a terrible tragedy losing school children at Precious Talent School, Ngong Road. My condolences to the bereaved. We must ensure the highest safety standards in all buildings in the country. Those doing shoddy work must be held to account. Quick recovery to the injured," he tweeted. Ainabkoi MP William Chepkut said," Someone receiving salary every month to do their work slept on their job and should be held responsible for the unfortunate deaths of the innocent kids at Precious Talent School." Other Kenyans on Twitter also sent their condolences to the families of the affected by the early Monday morning tragedy. Carol Radul said," So devastating what happened at Precious Talent School. May the souls of the departed rest in peace and may the injured be healed in Jesus name. I hope too that there is a full investigation of how this could happen." "The owners of Precious Talent School Moses and Fresia should have been arrested by now to record a statement. Lives have been lost. Owners were building substandard building under the watch of NCA, County Government and Ministry of education," Lord Abraham Mutai said. Janoh tweeted," My heartfelt condolences to the parents and family of the children who lost lives at precious Talent school," Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha earlier visited the school and said it will remain closed until Monday next week to allow more investigations. "The school will be closed until Monday during which the building will have been inspected. We will then give an informed decision after that," he said. Magoha also said that his ministry will construct a public primary school in Ngando ward in the next three months. The Secretary of the National Building Inspectorate Moses Nyakiongora termed the construction of a wall that collapsed in a school in Dagoretti as a deathtrap. Seven pupils from Precious Talent Academy perished while 57 others were injured in the Monday morning incident. Nyakiongora said the fatal incident is a criminal offence.