There was drama at AIPCA Nanyuki yesterday when Laikipia Woman Representative Catherine Waruguru’s supporters stormed the church as Jubilee nominated MP Maina Kamanda addressed the congregation. Presiding Bishop Ndirangu Ngunjiri was forced to order Waruguru out as she had not been invited. Kamanda addressed the congregation on BBI and Punguza Mizigo initiative. “I had received intelligence reports that Waruguru would storm the church and that is why I informed Kamanda to leave using another door once she gets in. She had not been invited to the church and she meant to cause chaos” Ngunjiri said. Ngunjiri said Waruguru arrived accompanied by over 200 drunken supporters and that is why she was not given a chance to address the congregation. Laikipia East DCIO Jacob Murithi accompanied by a contingent of police officers were in the church. Shortly after Waruguru was chased out, she addressed her supporters at Thingithu grounds where she castigated Kamanda. The former nominated MCA in the Laikipia County Assembly said she is behind the candidature of Deputy President William Ruto in 2022. “We want to tell Bishop Ndirangu that he was the one who was cooking breakfast in the Deputy President’s Karen home recently when the members of the clergy visited him. He should be very clear on which political divide he is subscribed to” Waruguru said. She also accused Laikipia Deputy Governor John Mwaniki of sponsoring the people who opposed her presence in the church. Waruguru said she might consider vying for Laikipia governor in 2022. “I will vie for that seat while breastfeeding and I know people will vote for me. But first, let us examine their scorecard and we might consider them for a second term,” said Waruguru. Bishop Ngunjiri said he chased Waruguru away because he was the one who had invited Kamanda, his personal friend, and that church is not a political battleground. “Actually Kamanda will be here also on October 13 in preparation for the visit of the head of state President Uhuru Kenyatta. Waruguru should seek forgiveness from God for attempting to disrupt the church service. But thank God she did not manage” the Bishop said.