Officers from the Directorate of Criminal Investigation on Thursday arrested Moses Wainaina, the proprietor of the condemned Precious Talent Academy that collapsed on Monday. The arrest puts to rest public calls to have someone accountable for the deaths of eight learners and injury of more than 60. Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji and Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti visited the school and questioned Wainaina. He was later arrested by DCI officers at noon and is expected to be arraigned today. By press time Thursday, Wainaina's family had not known where he was held. The Education ministry yesterday revoked the institution’s operating license for violating requirements. Education CS George Magoha said the closure follows recommendations of a task force that was set up to look into the safety of the pupils after the tragedy. The investigations led by the ministry's quality assurance department reveal gross misconduct as the institution broke regulations. The report released yesterday by Magoha shows the school was under the leadership of Ferishia Wainaina as the principal, although she was not registered as a trained teacher. Ferishia who co-owns the school with her husband could also be in trouble as the ministry requires registration of all teachers by the Teachers Service Commission. Records indicate the school was registered in 2013, despite being in operation since 2009. "The school was duly registered on 10th July 2013 vide Reg. Cert Number PE/10217/13. The approved enrollment was 340 learners. However, the assessment report that was used for registration had recommended a provisional registration," the report reads. The same year, the school had its first candidates for the Kenya Certificate of Primary Education examination. At the time of the Monday accident, the school population was 923, nearly triple the institution's capacity. "The high enrolment and lack of safe physical facilities, with non-compliance of qualified teaching staff, sanitation facilities thus render the registration facility null and void... This condition did not warrant existence of the school and is thus recommended for revocation of certificate and closure," Magoha said yesterday. The Minister has closed three schools since Monday. St Catherine Christian Educational Centre in Kibra was shut down on Wednesday and Palm Academy in Kangemi on Thursday. "We have closed down Palm Academy. Its structure is exactly the same as the one that collapsed in Dagoretti. If you look on the inside it, the timbers supporting the storey have began rotting," Magoha said. Depending on the scope of DCI investigations, government officers who approved the institution and its buildings could also be charged.