The management professor, Henry Mintzberg, said, “…managers have to lead and leaders have to manage. Management without leadership is sterile; leadership without management is disconnected and encourages hubris…” Managing daily is as important as the leader’s strategic vision; management is as important as leadership. None is more important than the other. Management is the support system for leadership. Every successful visionary had to put proper management systems in place to attain success. Every vision needs practical day-to-day support and that is the essence of management. Truth is management powers your vision in many ways. I’ll explain three. Management Structures the Vision: Visionaries tend to flow with fresh ideas; they’re always thinking up something new. However, pouring out ideas is one thing and executing ideas is yet another. Ideas can flow through your mind all day long, but if the right elements are not in place, your ideas may not happen. Now, good management is the system that aligns the right elements to ensure that ideas happen; this alignment process gives structure to the vision. If you wish to flourish in leadership, then good management is not negotiable. A vision without good management will frustrate all involved. But, with proper management, the vision can grow from level to level. Management Paces the Vision: It is typical for visionaries to want to do all their ideas all at once; they have an impatience that makes them believe that every aspect of their vision should happen now. But things don’t always work that way. A vision unfolds over time and adheres to timing. Every aspect of a vision has its time and the process must be respected. This is where management comes in. Good management is a vision pacer. The concept of pacing has to do with timing and it has a domino effect on a vision – this means that one thing leads to another. Good management ensures that steps are not skipped in the realisation of a vision. Management programs a series of actions that should occur to make a vision happen. It ensures that things flow step by step. Management Grows the Vision: Wherever there is good management, the vision grows. Normally, healthy growth is the result of proper management. It’s always a mistake to try to grow a vision without management; it’s a hectic endeavor. Every successful leader understands that vision was not designed to grow without management. As a leader, remember that management is important for the growth of your vision. Email: smpamugo@gmail.com