Marriane Kitany's mother, Rhoda, has narrated how Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi got down on one knee in 2014 and asked for her daughter's hand in marriage on behalf of Senator Mithika Linturi during a church fundraiser. "Oscar Sudi even knelt down at the same function and asked for Kitany's hand in marriage on behalf of Linturi. It was the biggest function. Almost six choppers came for the fundraiser," she said. Rhoda, a pastor at Africa Gospel church, on Tuesday narrated how she invited Linturi for a church fundraiser in which he contributed Sh1 million out of the Sh4.2 million raised. "I thank my son-in-law for coming for a fundraiser before the ceremony in my church," she said. Among those present at the fundraiser were Sudi, Elgeyo Marakwet Senaotr Kipchumba Murkomen, Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu, Deputy Preident William Ruto's aide, Farouk Kibet, Energy CS Charles Keter and Nandi Governor Stephen Sang. Rhoda said Kitany informed her in 2014 that she, Linturi and their children were going to Australia to get to know each other. In 2016, Kitany told her mother that she and Linturi wanted to visit her home for an introduction and she prepared for the function. Rhoda said she invited all her friends and family for the occasion. She said before the wedding, the fundraiser was the first time Linturi went to visit. During the introduction, Rhoda said Linturi visited accompanied by 19 people and had a pick-up full of food. Throughout the cross-examination, Rhoda referred to Linturi as 'mheshimiwa', saying her culture does not allow her to say the name of her son-in-law. She said at the traditional wedding, Linturi was asked if he loved her daughter and he told them he did. Rhoda said Linturi was asked if he was married and he said he was divorced. Rhoda said Linturi bought her a car, keys to which she showcased in court and went on to thank Linturi. She said the car has helped her spread the gospel. Rhoda said the car was outside the court and attendees were free to go see it. She, however, said the car is still under the name of Atticon, which pays the insurance. Rhoda said during the introduction, in the evening, Kitany left with the Meru group because she was married according to tradition. Rhoda said the couple's children, including Linturi's, used to visit her during the holidays. She said she has visited Meru on several occasions and interacted with the late Senior Linturi. Rhoda said some of the title deeds Linturi used to take out loans were her because they were with her daughter. She said to date, she has not seen her title deeds from Linturi. Rhoda has reported the matter to the DCI and it's still under investigation. She confessed testifying against her son-in-law was taboo.