Water CS Simon Chelugui is set to roll out reforms to end interboundary conflicts between counties over water. Chelugui said access to clean and safe water should not be hampered by territorial boundaries. “The current models of isolated community groups managing systems don’t work. I have therefore asked the Water Services Regulatory Board (WASREB) to come up with proper management models, standards and monitoring indicators in consultation with county governments,” the CS said in Stockholm. He made a presentation at the ongoing Water Week in Sweden. “The human right to water does not end at the boundaries of the water service provider service area. Therefore we need to establish appropriate management models and monitoring systems of water services in rural areas,” he said. There have been wrangles among counties which are a source of water that is piped to other counties. Last September, Murang’a county government threatened to bill Nairobi and Kiambu counties for water generated from the Sh6.8 billion Northern Collector Tunnel. The county was demanding 25 per cent of the total revenues Kiambu and Nairobi would make. The county had also demanded a share of the revenues from the Ndakai-ini dam which currently supplies about 84 per cent of water consumed in Nairobi. Last December, Bomet Water and Sewerage Company was forced to cut water supply to Buret subcounty in Kericho after Tililbei Water and Sanitation Company which is owned by the Kericho county government failed to pay a pending bill of Sh21 million. Chelugui said his ministry has crafted a master plan which will see all the regional water bodies work as a team for the benefit of Kenyans. “The work plan is to ensure that all Kenyans get clean and safe drinking water. We do not want them to be subjected to technical issues in the various water bodies,” he said. Chelugui said the government is committed to increasing water and sewerage coverage by targeting about 200,000 new water connections and 350,000 new sewer connections for about 3.2 million people annually in urban areas. “In Kenya, my ministry has established the Water Sector Trust Fund with the expanded mandate of provision of conditional and unconditional grants to the counties to assist in financing the development of and management of water services in the marginalised and undeserved areas,” he said.