Special groups have been encouraged to take advantage of the 30 per cent government tenders as provided for in the Constitution. Gender and Youth Affairs Chief Administrative Secretary Rachel Shebesh appealed to the Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry president Richard Ngatia to "whip" special groups to take part in the tenders. Shebesh said the KNCCI will help the groups access more than Sh300 billion meant for youths, women, and people living with disabilities under the Access to Government Procurement Opportunities programme. She spoke on Wednesday in Machakos during the issuance of Sh30 million to Universal Traders Sacco for lending to women, youth, among other special interest groups. Shebesh said the money is meant to promote small and medium enterprises. “In line with today’s theme, ‘Savings as a Basis of Economic Growth and Women Empowerment’, I want to reiterate the government’s commitment to supporting the special groups to do business,” Shebesh said. She said that it is a government policy that 30 percent of all government tenders must be awarded to special groups. “I want to appeal to the KNCCI leadership to partner with us to encourage more people under this category to engage in business,” Shebesh said. Ngatia applauded the role the national government has played to provide a special kitty for traders particularly the youths, women, and people with disability who form the largest segment of the Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) in the country. “I must commend the government under the leadership of President Uhuru Kenyatta for the role the national government has played to support the business community particularly the special groups. As the CAS has pointed out, Kncci will take the lead to whip our members to seize the existing opportunities to trade and establish start-up businesses,l” Ngatia said. The Kncci boss promised to set up a special chamber fund to finance businesses by offering affordable interest rates guided by strict lending regulations. 