Romelu Lukaku has become the latest footballing star to receive vile racist abuse from opposing fans - with Serie A side Cagliari the guilty party once again following their despicable act towards Everton new boy Moise Kean during his time as a Juventus player just a few months ago. Playing for Inter Milan after leaving Manchester United this summer, Lukaku scored the winning penalty in a 2-1 victory at Cagliari on Sunday. As he stepped up to take the spot-kick, some Cagliari fans could be heard making monkey noises at him from behind the goal. CAGLIARI FANS’ HISTORY OF RACISM October 2010: Samuel Eto’o April 2017: Sulley Muntari January 2018: Blaise Matuidi April 2019: Moise Kean September 2019: Romelu Lukaku After converting the penalty, Lukaku simply stared at those who had been making the noises, as his team-mates rushed to congratulate him. Everton’s new signing Kean suffered similar abuse playing for Juventus against Cagliari at the same stadium in April. After scoring he held out his arms to the fans who had abused him. The teenager stood at the post, his arms aloft in response to the chants in the stands. Juventus players, led by captain Giorgio Chiellini, protested to referee Piero Giacomelli, who was also in conversation with both managers. Cagliari skipper Luca Ceppitelli went over to the fans behind the goal, appealing for the chants to stop, while France midfielder Blaise Matuidi appeared to gesture to manager Massimiliano Allegri he should take his players off. Cagliari did not receive any punishment from Serie A, which suggested that the chants had an ‘objectively limited relevance’. Serie A also took six weeks to announce their decision. After Sunday’s incident involving Lukaku, Inter boss Antonio Conte addressed the issues in a press conference. “I really didn’t hear anything from the bench. However, it is true that in general in Italy more education is needed. I think that in Italy we must improve a lot and be more educated and respectful towards those doing their job.” “In other countries you support the team, you don’t insult the opposition like this. There must be the maximum respect.” Following the match, Lukaku wasn’t asked by Inter Milan’s in-house TV channel about the incident — despite the very audible and sad scenes. However, his team-mate Milan Skriniar — who was seen putting his fingers to his lips to the Cagliari fans —  did air his disappointment. ‘There are things that must not be in football, but unfortunately there are almost always still,’ he said. Sadly, several high profile racism incidents involving Cagliari fans have been recorded going back as far as 2010. Samuel Eto’o, Sulley Muntari, and Blaise Matuidi were all also abused when playing against the Sardinian club. Lukaku’s second-half penalty saw Conte make it two wins from two at the start of the season as they now sit top of Serie A on six points after two rounds along with Torino and champions Juventus. Lautaro Martinez opened the scoring in the 27th minute before the hosts levelled through Joao Pedro five minutes after the break. Lukaku netted his second goal in two games when he converted a penalty after Stefano Sensi was tripped with 20 minutes remaining. Conte’s side welcome Udinese to San Siro in their next league fixture after the international break.