President Uhuru Kenyatta has remained silent even as sharp divisions continue to emerge over Jubilee’s participation in the November 7 Kibra by-election. This comes even as some Jubilee leaders have declared their opposition to the party candidate, McDonald Mariga, whose candidature was widely viewed as having been pushed by Deputy President William Ruto. Ruto at the weekend fired at Youth and Gender Affairs CAS Rachel Shebesh who endorsed rival ODM's candidate Imran Okoth. The Deputy President went as far as saying Shebesh was rejected by the electorate in the last polls and thus "should not speak on behalf of the party". "All Jubilee party supporters should ignore and treat with utter contempt rebels and those rejected by the electorate who now deceptively purport to speak for the party leadership. Let's give Mariga moral, material and prayerful support. Victory is surely beckoning," he tweeted. Apart from State House photos the head of state took with the former football star, no commitment has been expressed by the ruling party boss. A day after the State House photo session, Nominated MP Maina Kamanda held meetings with opposition chief Raila Odinga and addressed a press conference expressing his support for Imran. Shebesh, another key Uhuru ally–has not only supported the opposition candidate but has also rubbished the photo session disclosing that Ruto bulldozed his way to have Uhuru pose for a photo with the Jubilee candidate. On Sunday, Jubilee party, while campaigning for Mariga, denied claims the race is a popularity test between Ruto and Raila. Addressing a mammoth rally at Kibra's DC grounds, the Jubilee team said dragging Raila's and Ruto's names in the contest is misplaced and only meant to divert attention from pressing issues affecting the slum constituency. Dagoretti North MP John Kiarie urged voters to evaluate candidates on their pledges and shun leaders using Ruto's and Raila's name to stir emotions. "The race for Kibra is not a Ruto versus Raila fight," Kiarie said. The leaders also dismissed claims Uhuru is not keen on Mariga's candidacy saying the Jubilee boss is firmly behind the football star. "Jubilee has one candidate who was endorsed by President Uhuru Kenyatta himself," Kiarie added. James Gakuya (Embakasi North), Nixon Korir ( Lang'ata) and Millicent Omanga, (Nominated senator) accompanied Mariga. ANC’s Eliud Owalo was also in Kibra at Bukhungu grounds to popularise his candidature. Accompanying him were Lugari MP Ayub Savula, Vihiga Woman Representative Beatrice Adagala and party chairman Kelvin Lunani. Owalo dispelled rumours doing rounds that he was considering dropping his candidature to support Mariga. “Me, step down for Mariga? What kind of nonsense is that? I have followed Raila, I am now with Mudavadi but I will never be with the other guy,” he said. Owalo assured his supporters that he will go all the way to the ballot because "it is his dream to represent the people of Kibra in Parliament". “I don’t want money from them or anybody for that matter. If it is about money, then I also have cash." Ford Kenya's Khamisi Butichi was in Mashimoni, Darajani and Laini Saba areas. Accompanying him were party leader Moses Wetang’ula, Bungoma Woman Representative Catherine Wambilianga, Kwanza MP Ferdinand Wanyonyi and Ford Kenya Nominated MP Nasri Sahel. Wetang’ula told residents that he met Wiper Party leader Kalonzo Musyoka on Friday and would be getting his support. “Next time, we are coming to Kibra with Wiper party leader here,” he said. Butichi asked residents to come out in large numbers and vote for him "since he is development conscious". ODM’s Imran Okoth conducted a door-to-door campaign in Mayani area of the constituency. His team first attended a service at Pentecostal Church of God in Mashimoni. Edited by R.Wamochie