Faithful were testifying about the Lord's goodness at Enlightened Christian Gathering Church when two men stormed it, screaming. The head of security at the Kileleshwa-based congregation was overseeing the session and acted to stem the chaos that erupted. He immediately ordered his security team to rein in the duo and solve the matter amicably. “They entered the church in shades and caps. This is a taboo as the place of worship is considered holy,” Joel Masiga told Kibera senior resident magistrate Boaz Ombewa yesterday. Masiga was testifying in a case in which two men are charged with invading the Enlightened  Christian Gathering Church and accusing the worshipers of practising prostitution. Douglas Onkware and Erick Mogire both denied the charges and were released on bond. Masiga said an old woman had been dropped off a moving vehicle and one of the accused persons escorted her into the church. She was allowed to testify about what God had done for her. “She entered the church and since I was the one holding a microphone on behalf of those who were testifying, I gave her an opportunity to give her testimonies,” he told the court. He said that one of the accused persons headbutted him. “By the time I dropped the microphone to try and advice the brothers to remove their caps and maintain order in the church, one of them headbutted me and dragged me on the ground,” he added. He said that the two brothers told him that they were men on a mission and accused the church of spreading prostitution. Masiga said that the men told him their mission was to flush out all the prostitutes that were hiding in the church. The church official said that when the situation escalated, members fled the venue and he was the only one who was left to feel the heat. “People disappeared and one of the accused persons slammed me on the ground and assaulted me,” he added. Masiga said that the strangers pushed a lady employed as an usher to the ground, causing tension in the whole church. “Even the testimony giving sessions stopped. I decided to drop the microphone since I was the head of the security team and the head of instruments,” he added. The magistrate directed the matter to be heard again on November 10 