Rowdy youth attempted to disrupt Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru's event on Thursday as they demanded that Mutira MCA Kinyua Wangui be given a chance to address them. There was a fracas as the youth accused the governor of blocking Wangui from speaking during the opening of a new modern market in Kagumo market. Armed police cordoned off the dais where Waiguru was standing. Trouble started when Waiguru officially opened the market and said she would not allow the Mutira  MCA to continue insulting her in public and following her when commissioning development projects in his ward. She insisted that she had respect for all leaders, but the MCA was constantly mudslinging her despite her being patient. "Respect is two way traffic and I also deserve to be treated fairly as a leader," Waiguru said. She asked whether the residents want their MCA to continue undermining and showing disrespect to her. At that time, the youths rose up in protest booing, as they demanded that Wangui address the meeting. Efforts by security officers and the governor to cool temperatures were unsuccessful. When the situation got worse, Waiguru handed over the microphone to Wangui to greet the people, restoring calm. Wangui said he supported Waiguru's development agenda and denied that he was undermining and hurling insults to the county boss. He accused his political enemies of peddling falsehoods to drive a wedge between him and the governor. "My political enemies are antagonising me and the governor. I'm supporting development projects of the devolved government and my foes should stop misleading the governor," Wangui said. After the meeting, the youth carried Wangui shoulder high while chanting victory slogans. Later, Waiguru dismissed the intruders as hired goons who plotted to disrupt the function. "Those were not residents. They were goons given money to try and cause chaos but I will not give up my mission to initiate development projects which are meant to benefit the residents," she said. Waiguru said she does not advocate violence and urged residents not to agree to be used by politicians to frustrate her from delivering her mandate.