The city Treasury on Monday could not satisfactorily explain to the Public Accounts Committee why Sh10 million was moved from a development account to an operations account. The transaction happened on August 16, 2018, at the Cooperative Bank. The PAC has been looking into audit queries arising from the Auditor General's report of the 2017-2018 financial year. Chief Whip Peter Imwatok demanded that Finance executive Charles Kerich explain why the money was moved irregularly. Imwatok said the Public Finance Management Ac was not followed. The county assembly, as per the Act, must approve such transfers, he added. Cashier John Kioo acknowledged receipt of the money. He said he had been instructed by the treasury that the funds be transferred between April May and August from the development account to the operations account. Imwatok noted that the transaction was sanctioned by the head of treasury and the then Finance CEC. Kerich asked to be given time to refer to the PFM Act. "I would have to refer to the PFM Act ... maybe the money was borrowed (from the development account).  I'm not saying that is what happened. I will need to check the Act if it is legal." Imwatok insisted,"...for money to be moved from one account to another it has to come through a supplementary budget and through the assembly. I think the CEC for Finance and the chief officer during that tenure should appear to shed light." The committee, chaired by Wilfred Odalo, was told that the cashier's office was no longer functional although the officer in charge was still being paid. Nominated MCA Silvia Museiya had sought to know the legal position of the cashier's office. "Kioo, the cashier, has no idea what is budgeted for and what is not.  He has no idea if he is spending development money or not," she said and questioned the necessity of the cashier's office. Kerich and head of the treasury Johnson Akongo said that the office of the cashier was abolished during the year under review. "Members, we all know that the office of the cashier in this era is no longer important. When payments are made there is no cash in hand. Money is transferred directly to accounts. That is the practice we are following," Kerich explained He said money is sent to people's account to weed out those who had been earning multiple salaries. However, cashier Kioo said he was not aware that his office no longer exists. "I have been receiving my salary as usual." The committee resolved to summon the previous Finance executive and chief officer for more clarity.