Kiharu MP Ndini Nyoro, at the centre of turmoil in a Murang'a church, was freed by the court on Tuesday for lack of a prosecution file. The MP was present in court after his dramatic arrest on Monday night at another Murang'a church, but the magistrate freed him, saying the case could not proceed without a file. Deputy DPP Sebastian Mutinda on Tuesday told a Murang’a court that his office is yet to receive any charges against the MP. Mutinda asked resident magistrate Sheila Nyaga not to grant the MP bail as that would preempt a case yet to be tabled in the court. The legislator was represented by Kandara MP Alice Wahome, Murang’a Senator Irungu Kang’ata and lawyer Gichimu Githinji. “Our client is law-abiding and had to appear in court in accordance with the directive by the police,” the lawyers said. Wahome told the court that they were yet to receive documents on the charges to be preferred against the MP. The MP was arrested in Murang’a town at 9 pm after attending a show hosted by a local media station. He was later taken to Kamukunji police station before being released and directed to appear in court in the morning. After the court session, the three MPs led a procession through Murang’a town accompanied by their supporters. While addressing residents, the three lawmakers castigated attempts by some individuals to intimidate Nyoro over his affiliation with Deputy President William Ruto and the Tanga Tanga group. Nyoro on his part said his persecutors had failed. He said there were reports that he was to be taken to Kamukunji police cells after his arrest and that some thugs had been set up to rough him up. Nyoro said on the way, they declined to say where they were taking him but that they received a phone call at Kenol and were told to turn back as Jubilee MPs had already arrived at the station. He said he was taken back to Murang’a police station and released late at night. The MP said he had previously received phone calls from nominated MP Maina Kamanda informing him that Kieleweke MPs were to attend a church function in his area and they planned to finish him politically. “I thank the people of Kiharu for shielding and supporting me. Am asking the Interior Principal Secretary Karanja Kibicho - who I know has been calling the local police over my arrest, if he is tired with his work, he should vie for a political seat in Kirinyaga, his home county,” the MP said. Kang’ata said the MP was like a brother to him and vowed to represent him until he finds justice. Wahome said they will not accept a dictatorial government that is bent on harassing and arresting people without any reason. “It is embarrassing that over 150 GSU officers were dispatched to arrest him at night because residents had earlier shielded him from arrest," she said. “We have come from court, there were no files and no charges. Why was he arrested? It seems there is something they want him to do and he will only do what the Kiharu people want.” Nominated MP Isaac Mwaura wondered why so many police officers were sent after Ndindi instead of securing Kenyans. He said Kenya is not a nation of rich people and vowed to stand with Ndindi to the end.