KCB coach Zedekiah 'Zico' Otieno rued tough luck in their 2-1 loss to defending champions Gor Mahia yesterday at Kenyatta Stadium Machakos. Despite putting a spirited fight in the second half, the bankers fell to early first-half strikes by Ghanaian import Francis Afriyie and Lawrence Juma which rendered Enoch Agwanda's goal a mere consolation. Zico, who was facing his former employers hailed his players for containing Gor and was optimistic of bouncing back to their winning ways in the subsequent matches. Prior to the match, KCB had not conceded after beating Sony Sugar 3-0 in the opener and had played Kisumu All-Stars to a one-all draw in their last match. "We played well but we were unlucky to score goals especially in the second half. We had a slow start where we conceded cheap goals but we gathered steam and managed to dominate. If we carry the spirit we had today to our next matches, we will regain our winning touch," said Zico. Elsewhere, Bandari collected their second win of the season following a hard-fought 1-0 win over Sony Sugar at the Awendo Green Stadium. Despite missing the services of their wing wizard Abdallah Hassan for the second game running, the dockers had Darius Msagha to thank as his first-half goal is all they needed for the match. 2009 league champions Sofapaka humiliated Chemelil Sugar 4-0 at the Narok Stadium to quench their thirst for the first win of the season. Former Mt Kenya United forward Brian Nyakan netted a brace while Timonah Wanyonyi and Elly Asieche scored a goal each. At the same time, Western Stima ended their wait for their first win of the season with a 1-0 win over Posta Rangers at Machakos. Villa Oromchan's first half goal proved the difference between the two sides. Similarly,eleven-time champions Tusker recovered from a goal down to clinch their first win of the season. The brewers saw off Zoo FC 2-1 at the Kericho Green Stadium with goals from Timothy Otieno and Like Namanda rendering Rodgers Aloro's own goal a mere consolation. Kariobangi Sharks were on the receiving end of Kakamega Homeboyz's wrath at the Bukhungu stadium where they lost 3-0. Sharks missed the services of four players who are with the national U-20 Rising Stars in the Cecafa tournament. Homeboyz now top the league with seven points, alongside Bandari, who has an inferior goal difference.