Rising Stars head coach Stanley Okumbi has hinted on ringing changes to his squad when the team take on Ethiopia today in the final Cecafa group stage match at the Fufa Technical Area Jinja, Uganda. Stars sailed to the quarterfinals after collecting four points from their opening two matches. The top three teams from Group 'A' and 'B' are expected to join the top two from Group 'C' in the quarterfinals. Kenya beat Zanzibar 5-0 in the first match before surrendering their lead twice to settle for a two-all draw with Tanzania who have also gathered four points. Despite coming up against the win-less Ethiopia, Okumbi lifted the lid on the changes he intends to make in order to finish at the peak. Ethiopia lost 4-0 to Tanzania in their first match and were on the receiving end of Zanzibar's wrath as they fell 2-1 on Tuesday. In a telephone interview, the former Harambee Stars coach said: “The team knows that we will be aiming to finish top and we have to be at our best. I will make some changes to the team which played Tanzania in a bid to seal the loopholes. I am glad we do not have injuries thus I will have the advantage of fielding the best. We have to finish top by all means to avoid stronger teams in the knockout stage.” Okumbi, who admitted to having watched Ethiopia during their last match,  said they gave Zanzibar a run for their money and cautioned his boys against underrating them. He rallied behind the team to put opponents to the sword in the knockout stages. “They are win-less and we know they are out to spoil our plan of finishing the group stages unbeaten. I watched them play Zanzibar and realised they are a strong side hence we can not afford to underrate them. Sailing to the final eight is an accomplished mission and I believe the players will step up for the remaining bit of the tournament which is relatively tough.” Meanwhile, bragging rights will be at stake when Tanzania comes up against Zanzibar in the other Group B match planned for the same venue. Zanzibar have three points and will be pursuing a point to secure a place in the next round.          