Wajir Governor Mohamed Abdi on Thursday urged the new members of the County Public Service Board to be impartial and honest in their work. He said residents expect high levels of integrity and their work must be aboveboard. The county chief spoke when he presided over the swearing-in of the board members in the county assembly chambers. Jelle Ibrahim will chair the board. Until his appointment, Ibrahim, a career civil servant, was the county director for agriculture. Other members are Adow Osman (secretary) and Rukia Ali, Deka Noor, Mohamud Abdi, Ahmed Hassan and Rashid Sheikh. Governor Abdi said the board has its work cut out and must be responsive to the needs of the county so it has supportive human capital. "As you all know, our human resource, by extension the public service sector, is the single most important resource we have as a county. As you take up this role, you will be expected to analyse the human resource gaps in each of our departments, map out areas of strength and weaknesses in our current establishment and work towards achieving an optimally productive human resource," he said. The governor said the board has to tackle questions regarding skill gaps, schemes of services, organisational structures, roles and responsibilities, correct job descriptions, which have been a longstanding issue. "The County Government Act, 2012, places the responsibility on our public service, headed by the county secretary, to provide for institutions, systems and mechanisms for human resource utilisation and development in a manner that best enhances service delivery. You will be held accountable to ensure this responsibility is achieved in our public service so we can be a model county on matters HR," he said. He urged the board to work closely with the County Human Resource Advisory Committee and departmental heads to ensure "we not only hire but preserve the quality of our staff for successful implementation of our county transformational agenda". Chairperson Ibrahim thanked Abdi for bestowing his trust in them and promised to ensure they give their best. "On behalf of my colleagues, I thank the governor and assembly members for giving us the opportunity to spearhead this very important board. We're alive to the fact that the task ahead of us is huge but one which we believe we are up to," he said. "It's your duty to ensure the expectations of our people are met through the establishment of prudent human resource management, including a measured performance of employees and enhanced training and development." Ibrahim went on, "As we all know, Human Resource is more than just recruitment. It calls for sustained policies on skill development, proper staff welfare and safety, objective grievance handling mechanisms, regular performance appraisals and well-thought-out rewards and sanctions. We'll try to achieve all this." (Edited by F'Orieny)