World Hope coach George Namake is not worried about the looming relegation saying he saw many positives in their 58-41 loss to Premier League leaders Thunder. “Today’s game shows we are there. Our confidence is getting better and this is encouraging,” the veteran coach observed. “We outscored Thunder 23-19 in the last half and we did this without our big man, Vincent Majimbo. We have found our footing.” Thunder who are top of the log,  led 39-18 at the break in this tie played at Nyayo National Stadium gymnasium and were on the driving seat. Kevin Chogo scored 12 points and Faheem Juma registered another 10 for Thunder. Evans Orenge had 13 and Charles Otieno 12 for Hope, second from bottom. Equity Bank had to fight tooth and nail before pinning down Umoja 71-59 in a fiercely contested encounter that was decided late. Stylish Titus Musembi tossed in 21 points while Dan Omondi notched 16 for the bankers. Umoja’s Nick Ogol grabbed 20 and Gilbert Obiero sunk 18. Bankers coach Carey Oketch said: “We have not played for many days. It was a tough fight but my big men rose to the occasion today and gave us a lot more in terms of scoring.” His counterpart, Kevin Sunguti, noted: “We have no relegation worries but we want to make the play off cut and will work had to reach that goal.” National women champions Equity Bank were up 36-22 at half time and went on to blank University of Nairobi Dynamites 60-40 in a ladies show. Cynthia Maweo was the key that unlocked the campus girls with 17 points to her name while national team star Betty Kananu notched 14. “It has been more than a month since we last played. So our chemistry was not that good. Rebounding was good, we need to reduce turnovers and increase our scoring percentage,” said coach David Maina. UoN tactician Juma Kent applauded his young girls efforts deapite the 20 point loss saying they played well but failed to execute. In another women’s tie, Strathmore University Swords clobbered Tangit Sparks 60-48 after taking a 34-25 half time scoreline. Edna Kola  posted 14 points, Emma Awuor made 13 and Eunice Silong added 11. Sparks had 20 from Celia Okumu and 12 from Pamela Ikonga. “Five of my experienced players are carrying injuries and did not even dress for this game as a result I managed to play only eight. It was not easy,” losing coach, Justus Akhwesa, noted. In the lower division matches, Strathmore University nipped Lions 66-62 as Safari Dheno managed 21 points and Elisha Ocholla grabbed 16. Footprints had 16 points from Fulfa Mghdi as they beat Everton University 41-36. The visiting Njoro side had 12 from  Claudia Akoth. At the Police Canteen in Kakamega, home boys Nebulus led Renegades 50-45 with two minutes to play before rains halted this match up.