MCAs from Mandera will seek public views on the Punguza Mizigo Bill before deciding whether or not to approve it. Rhamu MCA Kullow Alio said on Sunday that residents' views will be well represented when the assembly votes. He spoke to the press in Mandera town, two days after welcoming  Thirdway Alliance leader ERkuru Aukot to the assembly to explain the Punguza Mizigo Bill on slashing the public wage bill. It would cut the number of elected representatives in Parliament from 416 to 147 and increase counties’ revenue share to 35 per cent. “On behalf of my fellow MCAs, I give an assurance that the bill will be discussed objectively without emotions. At the end of it all the majority will have their way while the minority will have their say,” Alio said. When Aukot took the bill to Mandera, he was welcomed by politicians and addressed the assembly without any interruption. However, a section of residents urged the MCAs to shoot down the bill, saying it would erode the gains made under the current constitution. Resident Alphon Dahir said they cannot support the reduction in constituencies, saying that that was one of the proposals of the bill. Resident Mohamed Maalim said people now enjoy what they lacked in more than 50 years of independence and if the Bill is passed, they risk marginalisation again. He said reducing the number of constituencies will be a recipe for tribal clashes among pastoralist communities. Aukot’s visit to Mandera follows the rejection of his bill by the Homa Bay and Muranga county assemblies. Critics say the Bill would reduce the gains made by the 2010 Constitution, such as the nomination of MCAs in relation to gender and marginalised communities. Other counties that have rejected the bill include Siaya and Kirinyaga. Only Uasin Gishu has passed it. Aukot has accused some forces within the government of bribing MCAs to reject his bill. He did not elaborate. The Bill needs the backing of at least 24 counties before Parliament can consider it,  possibly paving the way to a referendum. (Edited by V. Graham) 