Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa has continued her forays in support of Jubilee much to the chagrin of the party on whose ticket she stood to run for legislator - ODM. On Friday, Jumwa urged women leaders to rally behind Jubilee candidate in the upcoming Kibra by-election - MacDonald Mariga. ODM is fronting Imran Okoth, the brother to the late and former Kibra MP Ken Okoth, who succumbed to cancer in July. Jumwa called for support of Mariga during a rally for Inua Mama, a group allied to Deputy President William Ruto. Jumwa's support for Ruto is what led her to being expelled from ODM in January. However, she appealed the decision at the Political Parties Tribunal and the expulsion was suspended. Since then, she has continued to accompany the DP during his tours of the Coast. Ruto has returned the favour, criticising ODM party leader Raila Odinga for allowing Jumwa's expulsion. In a tweet, the DP accused Raila of double speak and hypocrisy in the manner the party handled Jumwa's matter. "You who've masqueraded as a champion of women, now in your true colours expel a woman elected in her own right after defeating men and blackmail her to kneel and worship you as an "apology." Crime? associating with elected DP of the GoK you have "handshake" with. Tragically deceitful," the tweet read. During the Inua Mama rally on Friday, Jumwa criticised Jubilee nominated MP Maina Kamanda for supporting to ODM candidate in Kibra, Imran Okoth. "I am here in my personal capacity. The handshake brought us harmony and peace in the country. As Jubilee, we have a candidate but as a person, I will be with the ODM candidate. I am here to stand with the candidate nominated by ODM Imran Okoth,” Kamanda had said. Kamanda said after meeting Raila that the handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and the ODM party leader had changed people's perceptions. Jumwa also criticised Embakasi East MP Babu Owino for perpetrating what she described as divisive politics. “We want to warn those campaigning in Kibra constituency to stop abusing the Deputy President. You have all heard Babu Owino abusing the DP but we are wondering that no action has been taken against him,” she said.