Neymar was so desperate to leave Paris Saint-Germain for Barcelona that he offered to pay £17.7m (Sh2.2bn) to help finance sensational return, according to reports. The Brazil international was searching for a route out of Paris this summer after struggling both on and off the pitch since his world-record £198m (Sh24.7bn) move to from Barcelona in 2017. And according to Sky Sports, the 27-year-old was so eager to re-join Barcelona that he offered to contribute big money towards any deal. Barcelona and their arch rivals Real Madrid were both looking to acquire his services this summer but they fell short of PSG’s asking price. The Ligue 1 giants played hardball and refused to lower their demands despite the forward wanting to leave. But despite failing to secure a dream move back to La Liga, Neymar is reportedly committed to PSG for the season ahead. He is expected to play for Brazil in a friendly against Colombia on Saturday despite his lack of first-team action this season. Tite’s side face Peru in another exhibition match on Wednesday August 11, with Neymar planning to get his club career back on track after the international break. Meanwhile, Jan Vertonghen broke his silence on his Tottenham omission after finally making his return to Mauricio Pochettino’s side on Sunday. Defender Vertonghen played in Spurs’ 2-2 north London derby draw with Arsenal after being left out of the squad for their opener against Aston Villa and then on the bench for their following two games. Pochettino explained Vertonghen’s absence against Villa was a ‘tactical decision’ though it later emerged there were concerns about his fitness. Vertonghen said: “He (Pochettino) said before the first game against Villa that it was a tactical decision and I respect that decision.” Asked about the suggestions that his fitness was an issue, Vertonghen said: “No, no, no. I came back fit. I played in every pre-season game and I didn’t miss a session. Like the manager explained, it was a tactical decision and we players have to accept his decisions.” Vertonghen’s current contract runs out next summer and he confirmed there has been no progress on a new deal but admitted being out of the side reminded him how much he loves playing for Spurs. The Belgian centre-back said: “No [news on his contract situation]. I just want to focus on football now. When you don’t play, you realise how important it is and it’s extremely important for me. I’ve been so long with the guys, I love the club and I just want to play as much as I can. I feel great and I just want to help the club to win trophies.” Spurs were pegged back by Arsenal on the Emirates after racing into a 2-0 first half lead.