Residents of Ngeya village in Mai Mahiu in Naivasha are up in arms over an increase in cases of fatal road accidents involving schoolgoing children. On Thursday morning,  a four-year-old girl from Ngeya Nursery School was hit and killed by a speeding motorist along the Naivasha-Mai Mahiu road while on her way to school. The incident sparked a protest from area residents who called for speed bumps to be erected along the road to address the surge of accidents along the busy road. One of the area elders Monica Wanjiru said that five minors had been hit and killed along the road in the last two years. “We have on various occasions called on the state to put up bumps on this section but our pleas have been ignored,” she said. The motorist reported the matter and recorded a statement at the Naivasha police station. Meanwhile, police in Naivasha are investigating an incident where a body was found dumped near the Golf Club. It’s suspected that the man, whose body was found with head injuries,  was murdered elsewhere and ferried to the scene before the public spotted it and informed the police. The recovery of the body came a fortnight after two bodies were found dumped along the Naivasha-Mai Mahiu road in a suspected case of extra-judicial killings. According to a witness Peter Kirwa, the body had been dumped in a bushy section of the road and there were tyre marks on the scene. Kirwa said that the victim did not hail from the area adding that the bag he was carrying had personal effects including a sweater belonging to a private security company. “From the look of things it’s evident that the man was murdered elsewhere and the body dumped on this scene at night,” he said. Naivasha OCPD Samuel Waweru confirmed both incidents adding that the bodies had been collected and taken to area mortuary. “We have opened inquest files into the two incidents. It's evident that the dumped body was ferried to the scene and the victim does not have documents,” he said. (edited by O. Owino)