Deputy President William Ruto has told off ODM leader Raila Odinga, saying he is not fit to lead the country because he is not development-conscious. Ruto told Kinango residents on Saturday they should be careful who they elect as their leaders so as not to regret their choices. The DP said his development track record is better that Raila’s and therefore he is fitter to lead the country than the opposition chief. “Let me ask you people of Mwavumbo. Someone does not know how to construct roads, connect households to electricity, has never been to any fundraising for women's groups, church or mosque, and he wants leadership. Who will he lead?” Ruto said. The DP, who has been at the Coast since Thursday touring different counties and initiating different projects, said the region should have been more developed than most other regions but for poor leadership by "those who lied to its residents." Ruto complained that Coast residents look for him whenever they want development projects, making his work hard, but then vote for leaders who are not development-conscious. “Even you people sometimes make me work a lot. If it is a dam, come and construct, for roads look for Ruto, for women's groups like this, get Ruto, in electricity, where is the DP? But when it comes to voting, you do your own things,” said Ruto at Mwavumbo ward in Kinango, Kwale. He was there to fund-raise for women's and youth groups. Ruto said the time time had come for Kinango people to stick to the person they go to when they want development. He was accompanied by MPs Benjamin Tayari (Kinango), Badi Twalib (Jomvu), Mohammed Ali (Nyali), Khatib Mwashetani (Lunga Lunga), Aisha Jumwa (Malindi), Charity Kathambi (Njoro), Ali Wario (Garsen), Athman Shariff (Lamu East) and Woman Rep Rehema Hassan (Tana River). Senators Anwar Loitiptip (Lamu) and Christine Zawadi (nominated) were present. The DP said he will work with like-minded leaders at the Coast who are yearning for the development their people deserve. “Is there any problem if I work with Hon Tayari? We have decided we will work with all elected leaders regardless of the party politics,” he said. He dismissed critics who said his tour of the region was political, insisting he was discharging his duties as the DP. Ruto said Kenya will only develop with action-oriented leaders and accused Raila of being full or rhetoric. “Or how do you think Kenya will change? Do you think Kenya will change with stories? Someone comes with proverbs and soccer commentary and Abunuwasi stories, will that change Kinango? Don’t joke,” Ruto said. He said places like Kinanmgo will only develop once leaders put in place progressive policies. “And that is what we are doing to ensure that we move forward so that we get to the Kenya we all yearn for,” Ruto said.