Mvita MP Abdhulswamad Nassir has told students to focus on education instead of romance. Speaking at Sharif Nassir Girls' Secondary School in Mombasa, the MP termed early romantic relationships outdated. He spoke on Monday when he opened two classes and a hall at the school where he advised the girls to turn down love relationship offers. “I want all of you to love yourselves and you can only love yourselves if you know that you have set yourself a proper foundation for your life, which you can only do through proper education. So, when someone comes to you, tell them to wait,” Nassir said. He promised to sponsor 25 students from less fortunate families through the NGCDF. “The students will have a substantial amount of their fees paid courtesy of the Mvita CDF. The headteacher will give us the names of the 25 students in need,” the MP said. ATthe same event, Mombasa Education director Moses Makori cited lack of space to add classes as the main challenge facing the sector in most Mombasa schools. “We have cases where you have one school on the first floor and another on the ground floor,” Makori said. He told the students to take full advantage of the opportunity to be sponsored. “There are very many out there who want to be in school but do not have the opportunity. Make sure you use this opportunity now and not later,” he said. I Choose Life Africa project officer Mariam Musa said it is important to follow up on students' progress. She sad this is made possible through a project initiated by I Choose Life Africa called Girls Education Challenge. It aims to improve the life chances of 10,123 marginalised girls and 6,890 boys. It was started in 2017 and runs till 2022. The project, which is in phase two, uses a holistic approach to ensure a complete cycle of education and targets 5,362 students in Mombasa. “We make sure we know where those students are; if they have finished secondary school or are married. And we are continuing to monitor them,” Musa said. Edited by R.Wamochie