Twelve MPs have been lined up for state awards to be dished out by President Uhuru Kenyatta during this year’s Mashujaa Day. The lawmakers and three other parliamentary staffers, if found fit, will be feted with Chief of the Order of the Burning Spear (CBS) awards. They are MPs Kanini Kega (Kieni), Kareke Mbiuki (Maara), Rachael Nyamai (Kitui South), Joseph Limo (Kipkelion East), Sofia Noor (Ijara), and Junet Mohammed (Suna East). Others are Christopher Omulele (Luanda), Millie Odhiambo (Suba North) and Senators Susan Kihika (Nakuru), Aaron Cheruiyot (Kericho), Stewart Madzayo (Kilifi), and Mutula Kilonzo (Makueni). National Assembly clerk Michael Sialai is also tipped for the CBS award. Deputy Senate clerk  Mohamed Ali Mohamed and Parliament's deputy clerk Jeremiah Ndombi have been nominated for the Elder of the Order of the Burning Spear (EBS) award. The national honours nominees were decided upon by the Parliamentary Honours Advisory Committee jointly chaired by Speaker Justin Muturi and his Senate counterpart Kenneth Lusaka. Kega is the chairman of the Trade Committee while Mbiuki chairs the committee on Environment as well as being members of the Liaison committee. Limo of Kipkelion East chairs the Finance committee whereas Noor sits on the NG-CDF committee while Junet is the Minority Whip. Whereas Millie is a member of the Budget committee, Omulele sits in the Finance, Sports as well as the Procedure and House Rules committees. Kihika, on the other hand, is member of the Senate Business, National Security, Justice and Legal Affairs, and Energy committees. Kericho’s Cheruiyot is a member of the Parliamentary Service Commission (PSC) and sits on the Energy, Finance, and ICT committees of the Senate. Madzayo for his part is a member of the Senate’s Agriculture and Labour committees while Mutula Jr is the Minority Whip and member of Justice, Business, and Finance committees. Members of the public have been invited to give their views and reservations, if any, about the nominees to the Honours Advisory Committee by Wednesday this week. The parliamentary team will forward the list to the committee chaired by Deputy President William Ruto. Last year’s awards went to MPs Kimani Ichungwah (Kikuyu), Soipan Tuya (Narok), Shakeel Shabbir (Kisumu East), Chris Wamalwa (Kiminini), Maoka Maore (Igembe North), and Jesca Mbalu (Kibwezi East) Senators Gideon Moi (Baringo), Agnes Zani (Nominated) and Nairobi’s Johnson Sakaja were also feted. State awards are extended to a person who has otherwise brought honour, glory or pride to Kenya. Nominees need to have exhibited or exhibit exemplary qualities, actions or achievements of heroism, sacrifice, bravery, patriotism or leadership for the defence, benefit or betterment of the country. A person who has made an exemplary contribution to the country in the economic, social, scientific, academic, public administration, governance, sports, journalism, business, security or other fields also qualifies for the awards. Also considered are state officers who have made an exemplary contribution to the betterment of the national or county governments, the executive, the judiciary, the legislature, an independent commission or an independent office.