Residents of Ithamare in Kianjai ward, Tigania West, have protested the closure of Mbaarua Primary School by a Meru court. The school was closed last week following an order by Kirindine principal magistrate Sogomo Gathogo for not meeting the requisite standards. Resident Chokera Mwega accused MP John Mutunga and MCA Bundi Ng’ala of failing in their promises. “We have tried to appeal to Ng’ala and Mutunga but our efforts have been unfruitful,” Mwega said on Monday. He said the school was started in 2000 and currently has about 300 pupils. “Mbaarua Primary is uninhabitable and a threat to pupils and it is ordered that the school is closed until the public health department clears the institution as safe,” the court order read. Mwega said this year’s candidates are stranded on where to sit their Kenya Certificate of Primary Education exams. He said Mutunga didn’t fund the renovation and construction of toilets and classrooms. The residents also demanded tarmacking of their main link road, Miathene-Ithamare-Kimanchia, which they use to take their farm produce to the market. “The issue of the road has been a thorn in our flesh. A transformer burst into flames last week and on Friday, Kenya Power officials came but due to potholes, they returned for lack of access to Ithamare. We are in total blackout," the resident told the Star. He added, "We have tried to reach out to MP Mutunga since July unsuccessfully. It is evident the contractor misused funds and dumped stones on our road. We still demand answers. Why should we keep on being threatened and intimidated when we demand our rights." Mwega said the school's classes were almost collapsing. He also said the stalled Ithamare tank, which was constructed during former Governor Peter Munya’s regime, has no water. Efforts to contact the MP were unfruitful but Tigania West deputy county commissioner Stanslaus Apwokha said the national government is looking into ways of intervention. He said they have already sent architects to the school as ordered by the court "but they are yet to bring their report". "We are deliberating how to intervene in terms of rehabilitation so that CDF can take up the project. The road is under the MCA but the county has agreed to sort out the issue," Apwokha said. Edited by R.Wamochie