"Nimeua. Sasa kujeni muniue" — I have killed, now come and kill me." Those were the chilling words a caller used to taunt police. New revelations indicate that the daughter could have killed her 73-year-old mother, Judy Wanjiku Mwai, at South B Estate in Nairobi. They lived alone with their ailing husband-father, who was in the hospital at the time. Police said someone called and informed them that he or she had committed murder at the same estate on early Monday morning. A highly placed police source told the Star that Catherine Nyaguthii, 47, could have murdered her own blood mother for as yet undisclosed reasons. And then she ended her own life. Possibly by poison, it is speculated , since there were no marks on the daughter's body. “Police have made great progress on the South B murder incident. We are following very good leads,” the source said. “What could you make of it if one of the deceased women is the one who called the police and said that she had committed murder?” he asked. He declined to elaborate. Police indicated earlier that the killer of the mother, a retired Treasury employee, and her daughter called the police and taunted them. Someone used the elderly woman’s mobile phone to call the police on the toll-free line 112 on September 21. Police now believe that caller was a woman. Detectives said the call was made hours before the bodies were discovered by a relative inside their two separate rooms in the four-bedroom house on Monday. An audio recording of the conversation between the caller and the police officer on duty has been handed to DCI detectives. With the new development, police are dropping their earlier theory that the women’s killers could well have been the occupants of a black Toyota Prado who dropped them at home at about 2a on the night of the killings. Detectives went through CCTV footage to trace the ownership of the car and identify its occupants. Several people had been questioned including the estate’s guards, neighbours and the deceased persons’ relatives. Police also sought help from communications providers to retrieve mobile phone data of the phones belonging to the two women. The police report said Nyaguthi’s body was found lying on the floor of her bedroom, face down. Her mother's body was on the bed in her bedroom. She had been hanged, a  sisal rope was around her neck. The mattress was bloody. (Edited by V. Graham) 