Manchester City crashed to their first Premier League defeat since January after calamitous defending saw the champions beaten 3-2 by a patched-up Norwich team. Daniel Farke was without 11 players but his makeshift side — assembled at a cost of £6million, almost £400m less than City’s starting 11 — was more than a match for off-colour City. City, unbeaten in 18 matches including 17 wins since their last league defeat at Newcastle, were well below par although Guardiola refused to blame his error-prone defenders. “In football, you can’t always avoid mistakes,’ said the City boss. ‘It is what it is. But they are a really good team.” The shock loss came four days before City head to Ukraine to play Shakhtar in the Champions League and Guardiola added defiantly: “I know how good my team is. We will go to Europe now and we will recover.” Liverpool are now five points clear — the biggest advantage any side has ever had after the first five games of a Premier League season — after earlier beating Newcastle 3-1 at Anfield, with two goals from Sadio Mane. But even though Jurgen Klopp’s men find themselves firmly in the box seat in the race for a title they have not won in 30 years, the German insists he won’t prioritise the Premier League over Europe. Liverpool became European champions for the sixth time in May but Klopp dismisses any notion they will downgrade the importance of this season’s competition because of that. “We don’t approach them differently. We never did,” said Klopp, whose side begin the defence of their crown at Napoli tomorrow. Manchester City will have to pick themselves up after doubts over their defence were magnified at Norwich in the long-term injury absence of Aymeric Laporte. City fans will surely be quaking at the prospect of having to rely on the Otamendi-John Stones central defensive again. Meanwhile, Norwich boss Farke declared: “I’m absolutely delighted. It’s a great day for us. Carrow Road is buzzing and I can’t praise enough the mentality of the boys. We have played the reigning European champions, the reigning Europa League champions and the Premier League champions and we’ve got six points from five games. It’s unbelievable.’