Deputy President William Ruto has said he will continue 'kutangatanga, adding it is his work. Ruto on Friday said that as the deputy to the President, he will go around the country and Nairobi to ensure that all projects move according to schedule. "This is my work to ensure that all projects of the government are in place, ” he said. The DP spoke at Tom Mboya Primary School in Dandora. He said the government will use approximately Sh18 billion for water projects and improvement of the sewerage system in Nairobi county as part of the country’s infrastructural development. He said when more people get access to water, it will spur the country’s economic growth and transform peoples lives. Ruto inspected the construction work on the Eastern Transmission (Kiambu-Embakasi) Pipeline. The Deputy President said efforts were being made to ensure equitable water supply to the city residents. He said provision of water remains key to the promotion of sustainable socio-economic development and contributes to poverty reduction. “We are committed to ensuring equitable water supply in all parts of Nairobi as part of our infrastructural development in the country,” said Ruto. The project, which will cost Sh2.1 billion, will upon completion benefit an estimated one million people. The Deputy President, at the same time, said the Government has invested heavily in technical education to attain the country’s technological needs in ‘this 21st century’. Ruto urged the youth to take advantage of the bursaries being offered by the government and get a chance to have access to education. He said Nairobi county has more than 10 technical training institute well equipped and fully operation, urging parents to take advantage of such facilities to enrol their children. “We are making technical education affordable for all Kenyans. The government is giving Sh30,000 as bursary for each student enrolLing in technical institute and another Sh 40,000 as loans, making it affordable for all Kenyans,” said Ruto. The Deputy President further said that in December, he and Uhuru will give the remaining title deeds to Eastlands residents. He said after the National Land Commission Board is in place, the title deeds will be given out to the owners. "Development in Nairobi is a must and the Big Four agenda will oversee the transformation in the city, ” Ruto said.