The Treasury has proposed stringent measures in its bid to ground in law, the expenditure of funds meant for poor orphans, elderly persons, and people living with disability. This arose from concerns the fund was subject to the restrictions of the budget-making process, thus causing delays in payouts. In the proposed reforms to streamline the cash transfer programmes, the funds will be administered by an oversight board through the Social Assistance Fund. The board, if the Public Finance Management (Social Assistance Fund) Regulations, 2019, are approved, shall comprise of key government officials. Principal secretaries for Treasury, Labour and Social Protection, Health, Basic Education, ASAL; three nominees by Labour CS being representatives of a faith-based organisation, children rights campaigns, and champions of elderly persons’ interests will be members. The team, according to the regulations, will be tasked with the identification of beneficiaries of the Sh24 billion allocated in this year’s specialised funds budget. Some Sh16.6 billion was set aside for cash for elderly persons, Sh7.9 billion for Orphans and Vulnerable Children (OVCs), and Sh1.1 billion for persons with severe disability. In addition, Sh2.3 billion was set aside for the Kenya Hunger Safety Net Programme, Sh100 million to support those with Albinism and Sh200 million for the National Council for Persons with Disabilities Fund. The regulations indicate that persons in need shall include poor orphans and vulnerable children; poor elderly; the poor with a disability; and persons in extreme poverty. Treasury further seeks to set aside Sh2 billion this financial year as initial capital for the Fund, which acting Treasury and Labour CS Ukur Yatani says sets a legal framework for expending the monies. Following a notice published Tuesday, Yatani told the Star the development is with a view to ensuring continuous disbursement of the monies without the restrictions created by the parliamentary budget process. “The understanding of a fund is to give an opportunity for the government and other agencies to contribute to the kitty,” Yatani told the Star on the phone. “We can now administer the cash transfers to the elderly without any restrictions posed by the closure of a financial year.” The assistance, should the regulations be adopted, will also be extended to any other person as may be recommended to the Cabinet Secretary in charge of social protection. The proposed board comprises of a chairperson appointed by the President from outside the public service as recommended by the Labour CS. The new set of laws proposes that a child qualifies for social assistance if the said is an orphan who is not under the care of a guardian who provides the basic needs of the child. Also to be considered will be children under the care of a person who suffers a serious long-term ailment or disability which renders the person unable to take care of them. A child abandoned by the parent or parents and is not under the care of a guardian who provides the basic needs of the child will be factored. Those under the care of parents or guardians who are unable to provide basic needs will also be taken care of; the case of elderly persons being those who are 65 years and above. Elderly persons eligible for funding are those who are neglected, abandoned or weak without any ascertainable means of support; or live or beg on the street for a living. A person with disability shall be eligible for social assistance if the person’s disability renders him or her incapable of catering for the basic needs and without any ascertainable means of support. A person in extreme poverty shall be eligible if they suffer from severe deprivation of basic human needs - including access to food, safe drinking water, sanitation facilities, health, shelter, education, and access to information. “The Board shall develop administrative guidelines for ranking the intended beneficiaries and the ranking score shall be used to identify the actual beneficiaries,” the regulations read in part. Kenyans seeking support will be required to apply to the board which would later asses and recommend their eligibility for assistance. According to the ministry, the central idea is to help an individual, family, and community become self-sufficient and to lessen people’s dependence on public financial assistance. In what may weed out ghost beneficiaries in the current arrangement, the board has powers to terminate the assistance on grounds of misrepresentation, deceit, fraud, or non-disclosure of material information.