A ruthless Nairobi Stima showed no mercy as they walloped Northern Wanderers 8-0 at Camp Toyoyo, Jericho as the National Super League kicked off yesterday. A hat trick from substitute Caleb Olilo and two goals each from Dennis Mukaisi and Fred Ajwang plus a further effort from Moses Odhiambo sent a clear warning to their rivals about their hunger for promotion. “It was important that we laid down a marker very early and I am glad we did it in style and convincingly so. We have set ourselves standards that we will work hard to maintain as we pursue our objective this season,” remarked Stima coach Leonard Odipo. Having failed in yet another promotion quest following their defeat in the playoffs, Stima were determined to send a strong message on the opening day of the campaign. They, however, found no pushovers in Wanderers, formerly Eldoret Youth. The largely inexperienced outfit were up against serial top-flight campaigners like Joseph Shikokoti, Mukaisi, Odhiambo and Ajwang but you could not tell in the opening quarter of the clash at Camp Toyoyo. Khadir Faram had the first opportunity for Wanderers, heading wide off Stima’s post with Mohammad Kasule beaten. Victor Omune responded for Stima fizzling a free-kick just wide. It was end-to-end stuff as Faram proved a thorn in the flesh of Shikokoti and Mandela Shega, giving them a run around they did not expect. 15 minutes before the break, Stima’s knowhow came to the fore as Mukaisi was left unmarked in the box to fire an overhead kick past Hassan Sharama. That goal knocked the stuffing out of Wanderers and five minutes later Mukaisi bundled home Douglas Mokaya’s cross to kill the game off as a contest. Wanderers looked visibly tired and out of their depth at the start of the second half and promptly introduced fresh legs with right back Abdinoor Aden leaving the party. That did not stop Stima from creating more chances with Mukaisi just failing to complete his hat trick as his effort rattled the crossbar and minutes later, another Omune free-kick sailed inches over the bar. The pressure finally told with an hour played as Mogeni was taken out with a desperate challenge from Lodan Lomantile. Up stepped Ajwang to curl a free-kick above the human wall and beyond the flailing dive of Sharama. The third goal gave Stima an opportunity to give some players a breather with Mokaya and Alvin Mogeni making way for Ahmed Elias and Olilo. The eye-catching move of the game came in the 65th minute. Odhiambo left two Wanderers players feeling dizzy and then nutmegged skipper Reinhardt Otieno but his toe-poked finish did not hit the target. The floodgates opened further with Odhiambo’s corner headed in by Ajwang with Odhiambo capping a man-of-the-match display with a nonchalant finish in the 75th minute. There was still time for substitute Olilo to fire in the sixth as Wanderers were left wondering what had hit them.