Embu deputy police commander on Monday shot a matatu driver in the leg for allegedly quarrelling with and fleeing from Tharakanithi county enforcement officers. Marin Mbundi, 38, whose matatu plies the Meru-Nairobi route, suffered gunshots wounds in his right thigh. Deputy OCS Abraham Cheresoi was reportedly waiting for the matatu along the Meru -Chuka-Embu highway at Kangaru Primary School at around 4.30pm. Embu county police commander Daniel Rukunga told the Star on the phone that the enforcement officers had tried to arrest the driver for picking up passengers in the wrong spot. But they were unable to and thus arrested the conductor. The conductor also resisted the arrest by the enforcement officers who reported the matter at the Chuka Police Station. Rukunga said one woman enforcement officer called the Embu police Station saying the driver and the conductor had a gun and had threatened them. Police officers then waited for the matatu to find out whether the driver and the conductor indeed had a gun. It was upon their arrival at Kangaru Primary School area that the driver was shot. The county police boss said when the conductor was interrogated he claimed a woman stopped them wanting to be taken to Blue post in Thika when plainclothed county officers pounced. But they resisted because they thought the officers were robbers because they did not have uniforms. Rukunga said they have not yet established under what circumstances the deputy OCS shot at the driver and injured him. Police have summoned the enforcement officers and the conductor to record statements. They will also interview the driver when he stabilises to find the truth so as to take necessary measures against the officer if found culpable. Rukunga said they will hand over the file to the Directorate of Criminal Investigation to advise on the next course of action. Witnesses told the press that when the matatu arrived at the scene, the deputy OCS pointed at the driver and shot at the front right door. The bullet tore through and injured the driver, forcing him to stop the vehicle before passengers fled in fear. The deputy OCS and other officers accompanying him removed the driver from the matatu and took him to hospital in their van. When the press arrived at the hospital, the driver had been given emergency treatment and was scheduled to be scanned to establish where the bullet stuck in his thigh was. Scores of curious residents’ milled around the scene to find out what was happening. (edited by O. Owino)