Panic by their top and middle-order saw Kongoni’s batting collapse against Sir Ali in their Nairobi Invitational Cricket 50 overs match. After being bowled out for 43, Obado said his team simply ‘panicked’ and “miscalculated” everything in the match that lasted only 16.4 overs. Kongonis were in deep trouble from the onset on 2 for 2 after nine balls and were three wickets down in the fourth over when Obado was run out with the board on nine “I am really speechless. I can’t really explain what really happened in the middle. Nobody seems to know what was happening. We were done as soon as we were two wickets down and from there on, we were just going through the motions,” Obado said after the match. “I think we miscalculated everything when we got in the middle. We just panicked in between. We got three wickets in succession—Ali Haynes, Chris Childs and myself—and from there, we lost it. Our batsmen did not take initiative to steady the inning and the match in general,” the skipper said. It was the third loss for Kongonis thus missed a place in the semifinal. For Sir Ali, the win propelled them to the last four of the event, where they face Kanbis. Obado said his team needs to learn from their mistakes. “I couldn’t figure out what happened today. It happened in the previous match as well. Initially, we tended to do well and were looking forward to a good total but suddenly we have crumbled... These are key factors we have to work on,” he said. “Looking at the quality we have, I think we shouldn’t be losing matches the way we have been doing in this event. After being bowled out in just 9.3 overs, Sir Ali needed only seven overs to cement a place in the last four where they will play favourites Kanbis. After destroying Kongonis with 6 for 21 in five overs, Gangandeep Singh said he had added more variety to his bowling recently. “I am feeling very good,” he said. “A lot of hard work goes into my delivery. I used to bowl the in-swinger earlier, but the more matches I’ve played, I’ve gotten more confidence to bowl the out-swinger.”