The destination process of Savei canal in Mboghoni, Taveta subcounty, has been completed, giving more hope for farmers in the area. The water will be used by hundreds of fruits and vegetable farmers who live along the over 9km canal. Taita Taveta  Water and Sanitation executive Gasper Kabaka said the desilting works will be extended to other canals in the area to allow residents to continue with their farming activities. Taveta has been for years the food basket of the Coast region. Kabaka said the rehabilitation was also necessary to avert floods that have been hitting the farmers every rainy season. "Farmers are already tilling their lands which were subdued by flooding water. We want to supply them with enough water for irrigation so that we can sustain of glory as leading fruits and vegetable producers, "Kabaka said. Peter Ngotendei, a resident of Lambo village, said it's a relief to them since the canal had stayed for years without being desilted, subjecting the farmers to floods. "Since 1975, this canal has never been desilted. We have had challenges whenever it rains but now we can go back to our farms and work. We have for years been feeding the whole region with fruits," Ngotendei said. Ngotendei added that silt deposits had diverted water to their farms thus destroying their crops and livelihoods. Farmer Salome Mariatabu noted that the desilting of the Savei canal will change their economy and livelihoods since they entirely depend on farming  to feed their families. Other canals include Kitobo and Njoro Kubwa, which has been supplying irrigation water to over 5,000 acres in the area. Farmers are expected to expand their banana farming ahead of the completion of the multi-million banana processing and value addition plant in Taveta. Farmers in the subcounty produce at least 60 tonnes per acre annually on the 2,080 acres under banana plantation. Taita Taveta Banana Farmers’ Co-operative Society chairman Constantine Malai said they expect o increase banana production from the current 125,000 tonnes to 246,000 annually to sustain the banana factory. He said the industry is expected to grow the economy by Sh7 billion.