A Pakistani investor plans to put up a Sh1 billion animal feeds and semen plan in naivasha. Nakuru county government and Pakistani’s Maxim Agri Company signed the agreement on Saturday for the plant that is expected to lead to better feed prices and genetic modification of breeds. The factory which will be constructed in  Oserian’s Two Lakes Industrial Park is expected to be ready by January 2021. The signing of the agreement comes to a couple of months after the Nakuru International Investment Conference (NIICO) which was meant to woo investors. Nakuru governor Lee Kinyanjui said that for years the country’s livestock production had stagnated due to low quality of semen and insemination methods. “The investor has set aside USD10m for this factory and we expect the lives of hundreds of livestock farmers in the country will be changed,” he said during the signing. He said that with the new venture, dairy products in the country would find a market in the Gulf region adding that the company was expected to create 160 direct jobs. Kinyanjui said the county is keen on attracting more investment partners. “We shall form a one-stop-desk where the issue of licensing, tax and other requirements for any investor will be carried out as we seek more investors in this county,” he said. Kinyanjui termed Naivasha as very crucial following the setting up of 1,200 acres for the industrial park and the SGR. Maxim General Manager Muhammad Salman said the firm has been exploring various investment option in East Africa and Naivasha had emerged as the most suitable. "Oserian Two Lakes has provided us with a great location, reliable and affordable energy and simple solutions that have removed the headache of entering into new territory,” he said. Oserian Two Lakes Industrial Park sits on 750 acres of land but the Company renowned for flower farming has indicated it has about 3,000 acres of land that can be used for development. The firm's Finance Director Tim Ndikwe said the new company, which will be operational in 16 months, will be a cutting edge facility that will benefit many farmers. He said they were in the final stages of negotiations with other investors who will soon be setting up their facilities at the Park.