There has been a contentious debate on whether the infrastructure venture the country is undertaking has had any multiplier expenditure benefit, which is fine. But when you look at what drives economic growth in the short term, it is investments. When you are building railways, expanding airports, and rehabilitating roads, naturally that investment boosts the growth of GDP, at least on paper. The more important and pertinent debate is whether the said infrastructure is going to create jobs, increase exports and enhance productivity. So, long term growth through these avenues is what is more contentious in my view. This is about complete projects and not those that are different stages of development. Well, if you announce that you are going to boost capital expenditure by a given figure, the prudent way to manage your public finances is to have at least a borrowing plan or at least a plan to use local resources say Treasury Bills, or bonds or even taxes to start a project, nobody should expect you to finish such projects within a financial year as it doesn’t happen all the time. But remember there is also an issue of under-absorption or low execution rates of capital-intensive projects. It is not an issue that is unique to Kenya but is across the region. The other more important thing is that if you get the money, how much are you paying for it? It is a question of return on investment as well. You should always think of the multiplier effect of the expenditure versus what you will pay for the project. You can’t pay for projects if the return on investment in question is going to take longer to transpire, if at all. In terms of saying there is a project which has stalled; the Public Finance Management Act should take care of that. State agencies should have a borrowing plan for the ventures they are undertaking or funding from their balance sheets. If you got a project, and you don’t have a borrowing plan, then, of course, there would be under absorption of the capital development expenditure budget. The Stanbic Bank East Africa Regional Economist spoke to the Star