Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions has refuted claims that evidence in the Sh213 million graft case facing former Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero and nine others was obtained illegally. Assistant DPP Riungu Gitonga told trial Magistrate Douglas Ogoti that there was no witch-hunt on their part and that everything was done in accordance with the law. On Thursday, Kidero and his co-accused claimed that part of the evidence was obtained illegally and that the bank statements being used by the prosecution as evidence was tainted and rendered the trial unfair. As a result, the accused persons sought to have the entire testimony and witness statement of one Charity William expunged. Charity, the 11th prosecution witness, used to work at the Co-operative Bank of Kenya until January 24 last year when she was dismissed. Charity’s testimony was in regard to the transactions that occurred in the bank in relation to the case. The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission had requested the bank to supply them with statements of Ngurumani Traders (an accused entity in the case). But the defence team opposed the evidence on grounds it was obtained without a court order. Kidero, through lawyer Tom Ojienda, told the court the law provides that a court order be obtained before bank statements can be given. But Gitonga yesterday said they do not require a court order to access public documents. “It’s wrong for defence to say this case is malicious or evidence was obtained illegally. Here we are talking about a public entity. We urge this court to disregard the submissions made by the defence and allow the testimony of Charity,’ said Gitonga. Court will make a decision on the same on September 30. In the case, Kidero has denied charges of corruption and economic crime, including conspiracy to commit an offence of corruption, abuse of office, fraudulent acquisition of public property, dealing with suspect property, and unlawful failure to pay tax to a public body. He was charged alongside former county secretary Lilian Ndegwa, former chief finance officer Jimmy Kiamba, former Finance and Planning executive Gregory Mwakanongo, former acting chief finance officer Luke Mugo and former acting head of Treasury Maurice Ochieng Okere. The charges state that they conspired to commit fraud, which led to the loss of Sh213,327,300 at the county government between January 16, 2014, and January 25, 2016.