Parliament has backtracked on its push to independently review members’ salaries and allowances without the input of the Salaries and Remuneration Commission (SRC). Members had sought to empower the Parliamentary Service Commission (PSC) to give it sweeping powers to determine their perks. But President Uhuru Kenyatta rejected the proposals saying any pay review can only be occasioned after approval by the SRC. In this regard, MPs agreed to the President's reservations and have proposed to delete clauses 20 and 43 of the Parliamentary Service Bill, which would have given them the authority to determine their pay. The Justice and Legal Affairs Committee chaired by William Cheptumo, however, held that the deletion does not take away the responsibilities of the PSC as spelt in Article 127 (6) of the Constitution. The provision gives the PSC powers to "perform other functions necessary for the wellbeing of the members and staff of Parliament”. For Clause 43, Parliament had sought to review the allowances every three years or a shorter period as they may have desired, but the President maintained that the same must be done with the input of the SRC. JLAC, in its report tabled in Parliament on Wednesday, held that the clause is deleted, saying the mandate of the SRC is clearly spelt out in the Constitution. “The committee resolved to recommend that the House expunges the entire offending clause from the Bill,” Cheptumo’s report reads. MPs sought to give themselves powers to authorise payment of allowances to members and staff for activities outside the precincts of Parliament. They also bid to determine how much they should earn in domestic and foreign travel allowances among many others — terms they further sought to review as they deemed necessary. But the SRC, in a November 2017 Gazette notice, provided that MPs be paid a maximum gross salary of Sh621,000, Sh8,000 in sitting allowances for chairs of committees, and Sh5,000 in sitting allowances for members. Other benefits are medical cover, retirement benefit, life insurance of three times their annual basic pay, accident cover, Sh7 million car loan, and Sh20 million mortgage. MPs have been bidding for a Sh250,000 monthly house allowance, an issue that escalated tension between PSC and SRC, hence the amendments to the Service Bill. (Edited by F'Orieny)