A Kiambu widow got relief after her land allegedly grabbed by the county was returned by Ombudsman Florence Kajuju. Cecilia Mbugua on Thursday got back title deeds to her two prime plots located at the heart of Thika Municipality in Kiambu county. The Commission on Administration of Justice said the land had already been transferred to other parties. The two pieces of land three others in the same area have been the subject of battle with the county since 2013 when Mbugua applied for a permit to develop the property. She was initially allowed, but later the permit got cancelled with the county saying the land belonged to Jua Kali Association. Mbugua would seek the redress of the court which in 2016 ruled in her favour, declaring that her ownership of the five pieces of land was legal. The court also directed the county administration to approve the request for development. The battle did not end; the county government took it to the National Land Commission even after the window for appealing the court ruling expired, only to recall it later claiming it did not have any issue with the properties. Last year, the conflict worsened when a top county official got directly involved in the tussle. In December 2017, Mbugua received a phone call from the county government summoning her to the office over planned development on the properties. In a complaint to the Ombudsman in March this year, Mbugua claimed that during her meeting with the county officials, she was assured her development would be approved, but on condition she surrenders two of the five properties. "She did this under duress, considering it had taken a long time to get the approvals," a statement by Kajuju to reporters on Thursday read. The Ombudsman on Thursday told reporters that her commission's probe revealed that a top county official facilitated the transfer of two parcels of land to another woman. The senior official also personally made payments on behalf of the new owner. Upon investigations, Kajuju said, it emerged that the two plots (0.135 hectares) were then transferred to a third woman last year on January 2 after a sale. No sale agreements nor bank slips in the transaction were availed, she said. Kajuju's investigation further revealed that the details of the third woman including ID, KRA and PIN numbers as well as her passport photographs were availed to the land transfer officials by the same senior county official. The official was to later confirm knowledge of the new owner of the land and also admitted facilitating its transfer. The official also admitted requesting the original owner of the land to surrender the two plots for her construction in the remaining parcels to be approved. When the commission confronted the official with the said irregularities, the official opted to surrender back the two plots to Mbugua, Kajuju said. Edited by R.Wamochie