 At least six people were arrested after demonstrators engaged police in running battles at Kamulu along Kangundo Road in Machakos county on Thursday. The residents were protesting against an order to vacate land on which they live. They blocked the road, causing a huge snarl-up on the busy Nairobi artery. The members of the Komarock Housing Society took to the streets only two days after Machakos county commissioner Esther Maina ordered those who have invaded public land to vacate. The residents live on a parcel said to belong to Kenya Broadcasting Corporation. they also claim ownership of the land. The protesters pulled down signposts of public warnings against land grabbers and cartels that were allegedly erected by KBC on the land. Anti-riot officers arrived and ugly scenes ensued as police sought to calm the rioters who engaged them in running battles. Matungulu subcounty police commander Joel Kirui condemned the demonstrations. Kirui told reporters that those arrested will be charged with various offences including malicious damage to property and disrupting public order. The two parties have been entangled in a long-standing court battle over the 1,200 acre-land with the matter still pending before the High Court in Machakos. Government spokesman Cyrus Oguna had earlier warned the public against buying portions of the land, saying it belongs to the state. He accused Komarock Housing Society of acquiring the property through fraud. “On diverse dates between 2012 and 2017, a group camouflaging itself as Komarock Ranching and Farmers Cooperative Society invaded the land and sub-divided it into 612 plots. The plots were then offered for sale to unsuspecting Kenyans,” Oguna said in a statement. He said some senior officers from the Department of Coordination of National Government and those from the Ministry of Lands had benefited from the scheme. But Komarock Housing Society dismissed Oguna’s position, terming it ‘diversionary and misleading.’ “KBC have no powers or right to declare the land theirs. That is the preserve of the court. We have submitted evidence before the court in the ongoing case to prove our position,” the society’s chairman, Bernard Membe said. 