Stig Blomqvist, the 1984 world rally champion, is among the star drivers earmarked for the 9th edition of the East African Safari Classic Rally set for November 27 to December 6. The world rally star of the 1980s celebrated his 73rd birthday in July and is back to the historic rally in a Team Tido Race4Health Porsche 911. Blomqvist, who also won the British Rally Championship in 1983, is yet to name his navigator for the 2019 event which will traverse picturesque stages around Kenya and Tanzania. Belgian Stephane Prevot in car no 3 guided Blomqvist to victory in the 2015 edition of Safari Classic. But Prevot will reunite with Oman’s Joey behind the wheel of a Nissan 240RS. The coveted title is jointly held by Richard Jackson of Britain and Carl “Flash” Tundo of Kenya. Kabras Sugar Racing, Tuthill Porsche and Team Tido are, by and large, the front-runners for the title jointly held by Carl “Flash” Tundo of Kenya and Richard Jackson of Britain. The Kabras line up for 2019 Safari Classic is, as usual, a three-car Porsche 911 team comprising of Baldev Chager and the Rai siblings Tejveer and Onkar. Tuthill Porsche has the likes of Italian Gilberto  Sandretto and US duo of Renée Brinkerhoff and Joe Hayes. Sandretto will be navigated by lady co-driver Fabria Pons who is returning to Kenya for the umpteenth time; having already tackled the event with various drivers. Pons is best known for her partnership with the legendary Michèle Mouton (now a safety delegate with FIA). This year’s event has attracted 26 drivers. Among them, Kenya’s Minesh Rathod who will pilot his backyard built Colt Lancer. The EA Safari Classic was first run in 2003. The event is a nine-day rally covering up to 5,000km through Kenya and Tanzania. Safari Classic rekindles the spirit of the original Safari Rally, which put East Africa on the motorsport map and earned an unassailable reputation as the world’s toughest rally. Safari Classic replicates the incredible challenge of the original Safari and weaves a new adventure through the magical East African landscape, passing through world-famous game parks and over-night at many of the finest lodges in the cradle of Africa. Every day on the marathon event brings once-in-a-lifetime experience, building to a truly unforgettable and life-changing experience. why this event is the most unique historic motorsport event anywhere on the planet.   