Controversial singer Willy Paul has accused WCB's Rayvanny of stealing ideas from his song 'Chuchuma', Kiswahili for ‘squat’. Pozze got fans talking hours before he dropped the song last week by posting words on his social media platforms, in which he seemed to attack Rayvanny, who had released a song with a similar beat (alongside Nora Fatehi) titled 'Pepeta', two days before. The real highlight of the song is the gem he drops into the mix, right at the end of the second verse. "Usiwe mjinga ka kijana mnono mfupi na mwizi mround." Word Is reached out to the singer to get more about the song and who the song was directed at. Despite the above-mentioned verse, Willy refused to reveal the name of the artiste but instead gave the backstory of the song and the resulting controversy. He said, "I have worked with him before and he is someone I respected a lot." Willy went on to explain that the previous song he had done with that artiste had been a huge hit, and so it made sense to work with the artiste. Willy and Rayvanny had worked on the chart-topper 'Mmmh!' which was released in February this year. Willy Pozze said he played two songs for Rayvanny when he came to his Saldido studio, but that an elated Ray couldn’t record his verses while still in Kenya. Willy then sent the song with his verses to Rayvanny, who was now in Tanzania. Rayvanny took two days to record and sent the song back with his verses added in. Willy says he then finished editing the song and sent it back to Rayvanny. He says that Vannyboy then suggested that they should not only shoot a video but also change some of the verses in the song. The 'Hallelujah' singer said that he wasn’t happy with that suggestion as he felt that the song was great. Thus ensued an exchange of differing versions of the song between the two artistes. "He changed everything in the song! I refused. Then I thought to myself that this was a small issue that we shouldn’t have. We are brothers, our friendship should be more important. Let’s continue being friends but I will do my song alone because I love my song as is," Willy Paul said. Willy added that after he told Rayvanny this, the Tanzanian forbade him from using the recordings he had sent, to which Pozze agreed. After that, Pozze said Vannyboy blocked him. "I was shocked! It has now become personal," Willy explained. A few days later, he was shocked to see the same song that he had sent to Rayvanny being promoted on the Tanzanian’s Instagram page. "His verse was done with ideas he got from the recordings I sent him. It’s not good what he did," Pozze said. This is not the first time Willy has had a bad experience with a Bongo star. Last year, he released a song with Harmonize and a day later, Harmonize released his, which he promoted more than the collabo he did with Pozze.