Suba North Member of Parliament Millie Odhiambo has opened up on her inability to have her own children and the pain she has undergone throughout her early life. Speaking on Wednesday during an emotional interview on JKL, Millie said her natural situation has never made her feel lesser woman at any point. “God made me in a very wonderful way. I feel complete with or without a child,” Millie said. She, however, said that she is planning to have a child through assisted production in December. “I have given myself up to the dateline of December to decide whether or not to go through assisted production. If December comes and I am yet to decide, I feel I will let it go,” Millie said. The MP said that she has been touched by stories shared to her by women who have infertility, which led her to table an Assisted Reproduction Technology Bill in Parliament. Millie added that she had a rough time whenever she underwent menstruation. “I was always admitted due to severe menses and blood loss which was very painful for me. Every time I went to the hospital, I was told that I have aborted," she said. “Your periods are part of you and they came from heaven as a package, be proud of it.” She added that at one point the doctor wrote to her that she had a Sexual Transmitted Disease, which she opposed arguing that she was not even sexually active at that stage. The MP said women go through hard times whenever they present themselves to doctors for reproduction health, where it is presumed they have gone through abortion or have STIs. The Suba North MP slammed those who make fun of girls going through their menses and make them feel uncomfortable about it. She referred to an incident in Bomet where a 14-year-old girl hanged herself after being ashamed by a female teacher. The MP had recently shared through her Facebook page that she had decided to have her own children at the age of 53. " Some women got in touch with me on being childless ( because am one, they thought I would be empathetic). Up until then, I was not going to bring a law on Assisted Reproduction. I was touched by how women are very affected. My childlessness does not affect me that much," read part of her Facebook post. "God gave me a special ability to love children who are not mine. So I brought the law courtesy of their intervention.  I am however toying with the idea of having a child when am 53 or 55. Sara did it at 100 anyway." The outspoken legislator said that she has stood strong because of what she went through including negative perceptions that people have towards her.