There was drama at a church in Kiharu constituency on Sunday after area MP Ndindi Nyoro,  a Tangatanga member, clashed with the Kieleweke team. The drama started after nominated MP Maina Kamanda, who was the chief guest, invited Ndindi to address the church. After outlining his development projects, Ndindi declined to hand over the microphone back to Kamanda, insisting that as the area MP, it was his role to invite the leaders who had attended the church. Ndindi said he respected Kamanda as his elder in politics, but noted that it would be wrong for him to invite leaders to the podium in his presence. "I respect you Kamanda as my colleague in parliament but you cannot come to Kiharu and proceed to invite guests in my presence. I don't like fighting but give me the list and I will invite them," he said as Kamanda stood beside him. "I am saying this humbly as an MP. It is good for my constituents to also know they have an MP. I suggest we start with the fundraising and conclude with talks but I'm not leaving the stage as long as people will be invited to talk," he added. The MP said he did not receive any help while seeking development for his constituents and should not be assisted in roles such as inviting guests. Tension however gripped the church after the county commander of police attempted to throw the MP out of the church, causing congregants to stand up. The MP confronted the police boss and a scuffle ensued as his supporters and the other guests confronted each other. The choir started singing as the two groups continued with their confrontation that lasted for minutes. Kamanda had been accompanied by a large group of MPs and supporters. After some consultations with the church elders, the two leaders then called for the faithful to settle down as it was decided that no more speeches would be given in the church and that MPs would address the media outside the premises. The clergyman in charge then proceeded to conduct a prayer for peace among all guests. Church leaders condemned the incident asking political leaders to keep politics off churches. But after the fundraising, more drama ensued after the police attempted to arrest him after he addressed the media outside the church. Hundreds of his supporters however overpowered the police and shielded him as he went into his vehicle where he proceeded to give more speeches. The police gave in and allowed his vehicle, which was still surrounded by supporters, to leave. Ndindi said Kamanda was a disrespectful leader who has over time undermined him. He accused the MP of forming the habit of storming other constituencies without inviting their MPs. The MP also accused county commissioner Mohamed Barre of siding with the Kieleweke team. He said the commissioner has been calling him asking for his whereabouts every time they hold a function in the county. "Kamanda has told me many times that I will never see Parliament again because I joined Tanga Tanga," he said. He said while inviting him to talk, that Kamanda told him that he was in charge of all Kieleweke meetings held in Murang'a. Ndindi said the church had invited him for the fundraising meant to complete a church building. But Kamanda, who took over the fundraising, said he had been invited by the church as the chief guest. Kamanda said Ndindi intended to disrupt the fundraising and dismissed the MP's claims that he is in charge of Kieleweke in Murang'a. Kamanda asked the police to take action and stop politicians from taking 'hooliganism' to churches. He said the disruption had been pre-planned and that Tangatanga members had resorted to disrupting Kieleweke meetings after realising that they were losing dominance in Central region. "The church is the last place that such a shameful thing should occur. They should let others sell their agenda peacefully because we live in a free country," he said. The county commissioner said the police refrained from arresting the MP to avoid escalating the fracas. "We had enough teargas and police officers to arrest him," he said.