Scoring away to North African clubs has in the past proved tough for Gor Mahia strikers but Nicholas Kipkirui is keen to strike the difference this weekend. Gor are scheduled to face USM Alger of Algeria on Sunday in a Caf Champions League match in Algiers and Kipkirui is seeking to capitalise on the situation and score to announce his arrival on the continental stage. The diminutive striker who set a target of netting seven goals in this year’s edition after netting a brace against Aigle Noir of Burundi during last month’s preliminary match at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani opened up on his plot to score away. Last season, K’Ogalo travelled to the North thrice and only managed to score once. However, Kipkirui who is the sole goal poacher in the squad released on Wednesday said he will bring the dismal performance in front of the goal in away matches to an end. The former Zoo FC forward said he has sharpened his claws throughout the week and will strive to upset the Algerian side who denied Gor the ticket to the quarter-finals during last year’s Caf Confederations Cup. Alger, who reaped a barren draw in Nairobi in the first leg of the group stages, saw off the Kenyan champions 2-1in the second and final match of the pool to advance to the last eight alongside Rayon Sport of Rwanda. “Throughout the week, I have trained to score and I have the self-belief that I will achieve it. As a player, I can only get better if I score in big matches and I will try my best to net in Algeria. We have had bad outings against North Africans but we are prepared this time around. I am still on course to achieve my continental target.” Meanwhile, the club’s head coach Steven Polack has warned his players against falling for the intimidation schemes by their opponents who have been used as a scapegoat in the past meetings. The former Asante Kotoko coach is banking on his experience with Ghanaian clubs to break Gor’s win-less jinx at North. Despite having 16 players for the match, the Briton is positive of thumping the cash-strapped opponents. “I have faced the best African clubs before and there should be no cause of alarm. I have no time to listen to what fans are saying when I am at the technical area as all my attention is on the pitch—something I want the players to learn. We will miss a number of players who are injured while others are yet to be cleared but we are raring to go.” Gor who were forced to call for a fund-raiser to meet the travelling costs are expected to fly out today.