Kenyan representatives in the Caf Confederations Cup, Bandari have been handed a timely boost after Abdallah Hassan was given a clean bill of health for the first leg return match. Bandari, who were set to jet out yesterday, are expected to face Tunisia's US Ben Guerdane this weekend at the Stade du 7 Mars located  South-East of the North African country. Hassan, the reigning Sports Journalist Association of Kenya (SJAK) second-best midfielder of the year, was an injury doubt after missing their past two Kenyan Premier League matches. The Kenyan international sat out when the dockers came from two goals down to edge Zoo FC and was unavailable in their last weekend's 1-0 win over Sony Sugar. However, the former Posta Rangers player was cleared to fly out with the rest to Tunisia, where they will be seeking to protect their 2-0 advantage reaped at home in the first leg. Hassan and Congolese import Yema Mwama were on target during the first leg played at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani on September 14. The club held their final training session at Jamhuri High School grounds yesterday morning. “Hassan has been out for a week with a knock but the doctor has cleared him to travel with the rest. He is fit and ready for selection although the decision to play him lies with the head coach. We were cautious not to rush him but the doctor has given us the green light to play him,” said the club's team manager Wilson Oburu. With Shield Cup holders savouring the luxury of an injury-free squad and a first-leg lead, Oburu ruled out a defensive style of play. He said the playing unit would not be cowed by the intimidating environment expected at the 10, 000 seater stadium. Modern football demands that you play attacking football regardless of the opponent and venue. We are prepared for the return leg and we are aware of their theatrics but we will concentrate on achieving our target for the match.” Bandari are expected to look up to former Kakamega Homeboyz shot-stopper Michael Wanyika again to start in between the sticks as Burundian international Justin Ndikumana is yet to be cleared for Caf matches. Ndikumana was summoned in the last two league matches while Wanyika was on duty in their last continental ties.