Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho on Thursday hit back at his critic Mohammed Ali saying the Nyali MP is a malicious sadist. Ali on Monday accused Joho and his family of using the Coast people as a springboard to get lucrative deals with the government. “When they were seeking votes, they told you the Mombasa port was being transferred to Naivasha. Now they have been given the Nairobi and Naivasha business where their cargo will pass, they are quiet,” Ali said. Joho was making noise that the Mombasa port was being transferred to Naivasha, but it was now clear that he is the one who has sold us to Nairobi and Naivasha, the MP said. However, on Thursday at the 2019 ASK Mombasa International Show, Joho said some leaders only want bad things to happen to others. “Look at yourself. If you are one of them stop it,” Joho said. He said Coast leaders should be supportive of one another noting that when one gets, others will also benefit. In parables, Joho alluded to Ali, saying he is the one who always feels jealous when other people benefit. “We must stop this habit,” the governor said. Ali and the Joho families have been at loggerheads ever since the former journalist plunged into politics. The MP says the Joho family uses the masses as a stepping stone to wealth and cares little about their well-being. On Monday, he called on the DPP and the DCI to investigate the Joho family company that sealed a deal with the Kenya Railways Corporation for exclusive use and control of the Nairobi Freight Terminal near Syokimau. The deal will lock out any competitor to Autoport Freight Terminal Ltd, which sealed the lucrative deal. On Thursday, Joho said it is only prudent that whenever one feels a leader has gone wrong, they approach the leader and explain things out in an amicable way. Joho said he has sacrificed his freedom to fight for the people of the Coast. He said the time has come that leaders now do not fight each other but dialogue to find solutions. “So that the country moves forward,” Joho said. Earlier, he had called on the government agencies regulating businesses in the country including the Kenya Revenue Authority, Kenya Ports Authority, Kenya Bureau of Standards, among others to make it easier for investors to do business in the country. He said state agencies sometimes make it hard for investors to import consolidated cargo because of the many taxes and red tape. “Don’t make it a nightmare to do business in the country,” he said.