Former World Marathon Record holder Patrick Makau will grace the inaugural Kitui-Avena Half Marathon set for tomorrow in Kitui. The veteran marathoner leads the 21km race, which has also attracted Wesley Kangongo who was placed seventh in the Kirdam road race. The women 21km race has attracted the who is who on the local road racing scene. Last year’s Ndakaini Half Marathon winner Purity Kalekye leads the way and she will be up against Eldoret City Marathon winner Calary Chemos, Kabarak Half marathon winner Lydia Njeri and Vivian Chepkurui, who placed sixth the Baringo Kirdam Half Marathon. Event co-ordinator, Paul Mutwii, said as at yesterday over 300 athletes had registered for the event. He said they expected about  1,000 runners to hit the roads of Kitui by close of the deadline today. “Most of those who have registered are from Kitui and it’s neighbouring counties but we are witnessing groups of athletes arriving in the town’s registration centres. We can hit our 1,000 target,” noted Mutwii. The event will include the 21km for elite athletes, 8km and 6km for junior men and women respectively and the 2km fun run. The 21km route will begin at Mutomo town and end in Ikutha. Mutwii noted that the event’s main aim is to tap and nurture the talent. Prize money for the half marathon remains at Sh100,000 for winners in both men and women, while runners up will be awarded Sh75,000 and the third athletes will take home Sh50,000. Winners of 8km will take home Sh10,000, Sh9,000 and Sh8,000 for the top three. Also, the first 10 finishers will be awarded cash prizes. Speaker of the Senate, Ken Lusaka, will flag off the half marathon in which the area senator and patron of the event Enock Wambua will be competing. Mutwii said there will be several coaches from various camps and schools who will be looking out potential good athletes. The realisation that the sports sector is a key economic driver in the 21st century was one of the key reason the Kiio Wambua Foundation came up with the idea of supporting the half marathon in Kitui in a bid to tap and nurture the great talent in the region. “We are so excited to launch our inaugural event this week when senators have been doing their session here,” said Wambua, the patron of Kiio Wambua Foundation.  The event is also being sponsored by Communication Authority and Sports Kenya.