 Former Transport and Licensing Board chairman Hassan ole Kamwaro will be buried today in his Eor-Enkitok home in Narok North at a function likely to be dominated by politics. Among top dignitaries to grace the occasion will be former Prime Minister Raila Odinga and former Vice-President Kalonzo Musyoka. Kamwaro, 78, died of throat cancer at Mercy Hospital in Oklahoma, US, on August 28. He was being treated at the American hospital. Former Nairobi speaker Alex ole Magelo said they expect many leaders and mourners as Kamwaro was a man of the people. The body will leave Lee funeral home this morning for burial later in the day. His brother,  Martin Kamwaro, said that Maasai elders slaughtered a special bull yesterday in honour of Kamwaro. “The elders of Oseuri age set in which Kamwaro is part of it will perform the ceremony befitting their peer in his home. Only people of his calibre have had such a special bull slaughtered in their memory,” said Kamwaro. The Mau politics is expected to dominate the event as the one month is still remaining before the commencement second phase of Mau eviction. Kamwaro one of the leaders who have been championing the restoration of the Mau forest and other critical water towers. The Maasai community have been supporting the government’s move to flush illegal settlers from the forest. On Thursday, the memorial service for Kamwaro was conducted at AIC Milimani in Nairobi and the sermon was delivered by Bishop Silas Yego. In attendance were Environment Cabinet Secretary Keriako Tobiko, Narok Governor Samuel Tunai, Devolution PS Charles Sunkuli, Narok South MP Korei ole Lemein, GDC MD Eng Johnson ole Nchoe among others leaders. Keriako read President Uhuru Kenyatta message to the family describing him as a man of humility, courage and integrity. He fought for good education in the Maa land and he was one of the brains behind the establishment of Narok university college now Maasai Mara University. Uhuru said that his legacy will stand having served in different capacities in government and brought changes in the road safety when he was at the helm of TLB. His daughter Diana Kamwaro, said her father was hero, friend, a true Maa son, a patriotic citizen. “You mingled with the high and the lowly without difficulty, an epitome of humility that transcends class, social and other societal boundaries,” said Diana. He said his upbringing up in a godly way, is exceptional that he taught them in a world full of turmoil, hate and vitriol but most importantly the way of the cross. “You were a great man, a fighter, even as you gallantly fought Cancer your strong belief that Jesus is the great physician kept us going. You have left a void in my life that only God can fill and your legacy lives on in us and by extension in the community and country Kenya that you served unreservedly,” she said. 