Sun Africa Group of Hotels is now targeting business and leisure travelers to Nairobi with a US$10 million (about Sh1.04 billion) new apartments development in the capital. This is in the wake of growing demand for high-end accommodation by tourists, multi-nationals, corporations and business persons visiting Nairobi, which has cemented its position as a leading Meetings, Incentives, Conferences and Exhibitions (MICE) destination. Nairobi is also the major stop-over town for tourists heading to the World-famous Maasai Mara, Kenya’s wildlife jewel and one of the finest tourism destinations (safari) in the world. According to Sun Africa Group Managing Director- Middle East and Africa- Rahul Sood, the facility located in Nairobi’s up market neighborhood of  Hurlingham , near Yaya centre, will comprise  20 apartments , both studios and one bedrooms. “The facility will be ready by Q3 (third quarter) of 2020. Construction is currently underway. Nairobi is East Africa’s business and commercial hub and we don’t want to miss out on the opportunities it provides,” Sood said in a communiqué. “Sun Africa Luxury Apartments are primarily for discerning travelers for extended stay with luxuries of defined brand. The perfect place to sleep, work and relax concept. The facility will host dining options and state of the art gymnasium,” he added. This now adds to a list of high-end properties the Group owns in Kenya where it has invested heavily in hotels, camps and tourism industry at large. Its key properties include Keekorok Lodge(Masai Mara), Nyali Sun Africa Beach Hotel and Spa(Mombasa) Sovereign Suites(Nairobi), Kibiko Luxury Camp(Naivasha) and Lake Naivasha Country Club among others. The hotel chain dates back to 1927 and was one of the first establishments in Africa offering bush and safari holidays. It is currently renovating its Nyali beach facility as it positions itself to tap into the booming tourism business at the Coast. “We remain committed in investing in Kenya, a key tourism, business and holiday destination,” Rahul said. Tourism Research Institute(TRI) data shows of the 921,090 visitors to the country in between January to June, 18 per cent or about 165,796 were here on business purpose which include meetings and conferences mainly in Nairobi. During this year's World Travel Award (in June), Kenya was named Africa’s leading business travel destination.