Deputy President William Ruto will tour Western Kenya, Nairobi and Ukambani counties over the next three days. On Friday, the DP will be in Matia, Kitui County at 11 am for a thanksgiving ceremony before going to Zombe to inspect the construction of the Zombe-Nuu Road and Last Mile Connectivity. At noon, he will proceed to Zombe Market to inspect construction works at the Kitui East Technical Training Institute. He will then travel to Nairobi to attend the wedding of Edna Ngare and  Lucas Ng'eno at New Life Church at 3 pm. On Saturday, the DP will be Western making with the first stop in Funyula, Busia County for a church fundraiser. He will then travel to West Pokot County where he will be laying the foundation stone for the construction of Kodich Technical Training Institute. The DP will later open Lodich primary dormitory before proceeding to Sasak in Kacheliba for an AIC church fundraiser. Later in the afternoon, Ruto will be at Sigor Chepkondol centre in Pokot Central for a fundraiser at the Ngoyomwo Catholic Church. On Sunday, the DP travels to Vihiga Stadium where he will be attending an interdenominational church service and fundraiser. Noon is scheduled to be at Ivona Primary School ground in Sabatia sub-county for an interdenominational church Service and fundraiser. Monday will see Ruto visit Bungoma County starting off at Matili Primary School in Kimilili sub-county where he will be laying the foundation stone for an eight classroom storey building. He will then go to Namakhele Primary next to Moi Kamusinag Girls School for the opening of an eight classroom Complex. His last event will be at Nasianda SA primary school where he will also be opening classrooms. Ruto has been under intense criticism over his around the country tours with most people accusing him of using them to campaign for 2022. But in response, the DP last Friday while in Nairobi said that he will continue to 'tangatanga' saying that this was his main job. Ruto said that as the deputy to the President, he will go around the country and Nairobi to ensure that all projects move according to schedule. "This is my work to ensure that all projects of the government are in place, ” he said. The DP spoke at Tom Mboya Primary School in Dandora.