Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro has asked for forgiveness from the Catholic church for the scuffle that erupted during a church service last Sunday. The MP has said he has lacked peace since the incident occurred at Gitui Catholic church during a fundraising ceremony attended by Kieleweke MPs led by nominated MP Maina Kamanda. Nyoro said the scuffle was regrettable and meaningless which demeaned the House of God. He said he did not want to be caught up in a blame game over who was responsible for the chaos and sought forgiveness for himself and on behalf of all leaders who were in attendance. "On my own behalf and that of all politicians who attended the church service, in humility, I ask for forgiveness from the Catholic church and the entire church," he said, adding that it is his prayer that such chaos will never again occur in a church. "I don't want to say I was not wrong or who was, that is for God to seek our hearts and forgive us individually," the MP said during a church service at Gitui ACK church. Nyoro said if he were to choose between being an MP and pleasing God he would choose the latter and that he would not want to do anything that may attract God's wrath. "I acknowledge that the far I have come, it is God who has made it possible but I know God is forgiving to those who seek repentance," he added. He said it is time for political leaders to stop taking politics to churches and that they should make political remarks outside church premises, and pledged to lead by example. The MP, however, lauded his constituents for standing with him during the various attempts by the police to arrest him and when he was eventually arrested. He said he has never had a security aide but that his supporters shielded the police from arresting him outside the catholic church. Scores of people further sent him comforting messages when he was arrested, informing him that they were praying for him. "Even though you voted for me, I did not know that your love for me was that overwhelming," he said. Nyoro was arrested last Monday at Murang'a town after being accused of causing chaos at the church. Conflict started when the MP was invited to address the church by Kamanda but declined to give back the microphone saying the event was under his area and protocol demanded that he should have been the one inviting guests. The MP had a brief exchange of words with Kamanda before the police attempted to arrest him, causing a standoff between his supporters and those of the Kieleweke team. Kamanda had been accompanied by more than 10 MPs. Nyoro who is a staunch Tanga Tanga member later accused Kamanda of intimidating and disrespecting him saying he had called him earlier to tell him that the team would be camping in his constituency to destroy him politically. After his dramatic arrest, the MP was not charged in court on Tuesday after the Director of Public Prosecutions said his file had not been forwarded by the police.Ends