The Central Organization of Trade Unions has opposed the appointment of former labor CS Kazungu Kambi as  a commissioner in the National Lands Commission. Secretary General Francis Atwoli on Saturday said Kazungu has been mentioned in various scandals and thus he cannot be bestowed to be in-charge of such a sensitive position. Atwoli in a statement said the purported clearance by the Parliamentary Lands Committee for his appointment is itself suspect and portrays ineptitude in some of our institutions. Kazungu is among nine individuals who were nominated by President Uhuru Kenyatta as the commissioners in the NLC. Uhuru nominated Gershom Otachi Omanwa as the new  chairperson.to take  over from Muhammad Swazuri whose term came to an end in February after a six-year term. But Atwoli said,the integrity of Kazungu is questionable and information available in public sphere clearly indicates that he does not meet the minimum requirements of chapter 6 of the constitution. Atwoli said in 2014/2015 when he was appointed as a Cabinet Secretary in the then Ministry of Labour and Social Protection, he demonstrated his true values as a ‘horrible’ Minister to ever be appointed in the Labour docket since formation of COTU (K) . “Anybody who may have appointed him to NLC might have been either fought through the gun or blind folded,” he said. He added, “Kazungu Kambi remains one of the most corrupt Cabinet Secretary to have ever been appointed and one whose even education cannot be traced. He is totally unfit for any national appointment or any seat at all”. Atwoli said there are so many respectable Kenyans including from the coast region who would have been considered for an appointment other than Kazungu Kambi if by any chance his selection was based on the need for regional balance and representation of the Coast region. “COTU (K) demands for an explanation from The Government particularly National Intelligence Service, NIS to have recommended Kambi for vetting when we as the umbrella body for workers in Kenya presented a full dozier on Kambi’s behavior while he was at the helm of The Ministry of Labour,” he said. According to Atwoli, azungu Kambi is a man that has openly declared that he learnt corruption and it works for him and has publicly admitted, and no doubt he is extremely corrupt. He said the short stay Kazungu Kambi was in charge of the Ministry of Labour is when National Social security Fund, NSSF lost billions and billions of money through projects such as construction of Hazina Towers and other 6 projects  whose tenders were irregularly awarded to one contractor. “At the same time Kazungu Kambi initiated a non-existing NSSF project at Tassia, where the fund could have lost Kshs.5.03 billion. Kindly save us from Kazungu Kambi’s huge appetite for public funds and save thousands of Kenyans,” he said.