MPs allied to Deputy President William Ruto and a lobby group have called for an end to “political arrests”. They cite the arrest of Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro as an attempt to muzzle alternative political positions in Central Kenya. National Civil Society Congress president Morris Odhiambo said, “The era of political arrests and detentions is long gone...we take note that other politicians who have been involved in similar activities in the region have not faced arrest, which suggests a discriminatory application of the law.” Odhiambo, in a statement to the media, asked the government to apply the law equally. He claimed Nyeri MP Wambugu Ngunjiri was not arrested although he had disrupted a meeting attended by Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri in June. In Parliament, Interior PS Karanja Kibicho was accused of using state machinery to frustrate the DP’s camp. The more than 50 lawmakers claimed Kibicho had taken over the functions of the Inspector General of Police and was deploying police officers to intimidate and silence politicians allied to Ruto. The Tangatanga MPs and senators, through Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichung’wah, said they will not be cowed or renege on their support for Ruto’s 2022 presidential bid. They blamed Kibicho for Nyoro's arrest on Monday night in Murang’a. "Kibicho, you either relinquish your position and put on the uniform of IG and use police force to fight those holding contrary opinion or better still, resign and join politics," Ichungwa said. The leaders also demanded the resignation of the IG Hillary Mutyambai for allowing the use of the National Police Service to fight political wars. “We want to tell IG Hillary Mutyambai of our concerns on increased incidences of politicisation of the police service. If IG has surrendered organs of the National Police Service to functionaries at the OP then he can resign,” Kericho Senator Aaron Cheruiyot said. The Kericho senator said Mutyambai might be summoned to explain why he has left the control of crucial state organ to some government officials. Ichung’wah claimed that other state agencies like Kenya Revenue Authority are also being used to silence the Ruto camp. “I am rather embarrassed that a government we voted for is today being equated to Nyayo era because of s few individuals,” he said. Nyoro was arrested in connection with a confrontation with nominated MP Maina Kamanda during a funds raiser for Gaitu Catholic Church on Sunday. Naivasha MP Jayne Kihara said they will not play the opposition role in a government they formed because "some people had a handshake". Kimilili MP Didmus Barasa said, "We fought for this government and we cannot allow a few leaders to mess us. There is a saying that if hyena wants to eat its young ones, it accuses them of smelling like a sheep."