Elders in Kiambu county have installed a retired chief as king of the Kikuyu community in a ceremony avoided by disgraced Governor Ferdinand Waititu. The Saturday crowning in Gitironi, Lari, featured important Kikuyu political leaders including Nyandarua Governor Francis Kimemia, Kiambu Deputy Governor James Nyoro, MPs Jonah Mburu (Lari), Peter Mwathi (Limuru), Kiambu Woman Rep Gathoni Wamuchomba and Lari Kirenga MCA Joseph Karichu. Former MPs at the event included Dennis Waweru (Dagoretti), Mburu Kahangara (Lari) and Kilemi Mwilia (Embu). Lari deputy county commissioner Aaron Koros, chiefs and their assistants attended the event. The new king, retired chief Joseph Thiong'o Gitau, was mandated to offer advice to the community, coordinate cultural activities and offer political guidance to the community. Traditionally, the Kikuyu people do not have kings. The highest level of political decision making is the council of elders or kiama in each locality. Lari residents witnessed the rare occasion held at Nyamweru Secondary  School field. Everyone was invited, unlike in other ceremonies of elderhood where girls, women, children and uninitiated men are excluded. Kikuyu elders normally hold their sacred activities under a Mugumo trees which is a sacred to the community. Gitau was described as an honest, hardworking, faithful and God fearing leader. Governor Kimemia who grew up in Githirioni said the new king was his mentor who counseled a lot as a young man. "I grew up in this village. This chief used to counsel me to work hard and never look back. I did not know that I would be his boss, when I rose to become the head of civil service," he said "In fact I attended his retirement ceremony to tell the community the respect I had for him, where I learnt he was approachable and liked by many." Lari MP Mburu urged residents to learn how to live with other people as Gitau displayed. "Our retired chief is an example we should all cherish and learn from. All these people have come because he was honest and faithful. If he was corrupt, people would not have come and, in fact, they would said bad things about him" he said. Gitau has joins other kings Njathi Mbatia, Kariuki Kabui and Boro Ng'eera, who is the Kikuyu national chairman. Ng'eera said the ceremony, traditionally known, as matathi, is for a person who  has been probed by the community, elders and even the government and found fit. "If someone has a bad history of being corrupt, a lier or any other ills, he cannot be promoted to such a post since they lead in cleansing of the community, the country and are looked upon to give directions and advise," Ng'eera said. Gitau's son Samuel Muchuga said his father is everyone's role model in their extended family as well as in the community. "We do not know what we can say since he is a role model to us and the whole village. We thank God who has brought us this far," he said.