Jubilee rebel MPs who have been harsh critics of DP William Ruto in the Rift Valley are under pressure to join his camp or risk facing a political backlash in 2022. MPs Joshua Kuttuny (Cherangany), Alfred Keter (Nandi Hills) and Sila Tiren (Moiben) have been leading a political onslaught against the DP in the region. But Keter and Tiren have gone silent in the recent past amid pressure from Ruto allies. Elders from the region have been quietly reaching out to the rebels to stop undermining the DP. “As elders, we are for unity and we think the leaders should work as a team be it in politics or other matters touching on residents,” said Mursin Kibet. Kuttuny has vowed not to change his stand on key issues touching on residents of the region like the maize crisis and the Mau forest saga. But the DP and his allies have termed him as a lost sheep being used by outsiders to undermine Ruto ahead of the 2022 polls. “I always focus on dealing with issues which they know touch on our people and will play a role in 2022 politics,” Kuttuny said. Two weeks ago, the DP along with his allies like Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi were in Cherangany where they harshly criticised Kuttuny over his stand on politics in the region. “Were it not for DP Ruto, Kuttuny would be a nobody today but its unfortunate that he has turned against the DP and is being used to undermine us,” Sudi said. Kuttuny skipped the event. Earlier, he had attended another event in Soy constituency with area MP Caleb Kositany where he (Kuttuny) stole the show as he was cheered by residents when he explained why he had been critical of the DP. Allies of the DP who were present asked residents not cheer “betrayers” like Kuttuny who were undermining the Kalenjin community at a time when DP Ruto was preparing to vie for the presidency in 2022. Ruto allies schemed to woo former minister Kipruto Kirwa to Tangatanga and to take on Kuttuny in 2022. Kuttuny has however intensified his activities in Cherangany with almost weekly meetings. In Nandi Hills, Keter has also been under pressure from DP Ruto's allies who are still pushing to have Ruto’s communication aide Emmanuel Tallam make another stab at the parliamentary seat in 2022. Keter has been missing from political action in the recent past amid reports that he is being pushed to join the DP’s camp. “With DP Ruto running or presidency in 2022 it will be politically suicidal for the so-called rebels to think that they will vie on their own and win against the expected political euphoria in the region,” said political analyst Joseph Chumba. Sources within the Tangatanga told the Star the DP was keen to win back the rebel MPs and other critics as he schemes to consolidate his Rift Valley ahead of 2022. Tiren and Tiaty MP William kamket are among the critics who have already aligned themselves with Baringo Senator Gideon Moi who is believed to be eyeing the top seat in 20222. Kamket has asked those opposed to Gideon to ensure they are in good books with him before he becomes president in 2022. “It will be very difficult for you to get him after that,” he said.