 A 95-year-old grandmother will seek justice in court if the government does not assist her to stop the grabbing of one of her two prime properties in Murera, Ruiru. Ruth Njeri Mutema has appealed for assistance from the Lands ministry headed by Cabinet Secretary Farida Karoney. Unknown to Njeri, her problem started in 2008 when a gazette notice dated December 5 indicated that she was dead. The grandmother from Ngorongo village in Gatundu North told reporters on Monday that a well-connected businessman had faked her death and caused Thika district land registrar to publish her demise in the Kenya Gazette. She learnt of her purported death in 2014, six years later, and brought the matter to the attention of the police in Ruiru under OB No 011/31/10/2014. Five years later and counting, the police have done nothing about her fake death. Njeri was a member of the Nyakinyua welfare group which owned huge tracts of land in Kiambu and which later subdivided the properties to members. The gazette notice No 11465 placed by Thika land registrar N. N. Mutiso reads in part, “Upon such registration, the land title deeds issued earlier to the said Ruth Njeri Mutema (deceased) shall be deemed to be cancelled and of no effect…” Njeri said she met the businessman (name withheld) at the police station on the day she reported that somebody had faked her death to grab her two parcels of land. “He managed to lie to the government that I was dead thinking that I would die soon because of old age, but I am alive and kicking,” she said. Her daughter, Monica Wanjiku, said the businessman is not keen to abandon the land since it is in a prime area where an acre piece is selling for Sh7 million. “We are privy to information that he intends to construct flats on the land. He, however, hasn’t started because he’s probably waiting for my mother to die. It’s still a mystery how he forged my mum’s ID and got a death certificate under her name,” Wanjiku said. She said that the man claims to have bought the land from her mother "yet has no documents including a sale agreement to prove that he was sold the land by my mother". She accused him of using his deep pockets to influence the police and land officers in his favour. Njeri recalled how in the early 1970s she and her husband, the late Peter Mutema, used to contribute as little as Sh10 for many years towards the acquisition of their two plots –  Ruiru/Ruiru East Block 2/3780 and 3791. She has the original title deed for parcel No 3780 issued to her on August 26, 1988. “My husband passed on without reaping the benefit of the land. Now some people want me dead to illegally benefit from the land I toiled and moiled so hard for,” she said. “It’s only God and the government who will help me defeat the grabber,” Njeri added. The elderly have been the targets of notorious land grabbers in the region who defraud them of land through fake ownership documents. A lands clinic organised by the Lands ministry in Ruiru has been addressing such disputes with the aim of helping legitimate owners retain their land parcels. 