A foundation seeking to Sh2.5 billion for land to settle Mau Mau fighters and their families has appealed to well-wishers and the government for assistance. The foundation has identified a 12,000 acre land in Rumuruti in Laikipia county in which it is planning to settle 3,425 people with each family getting 3.5 acres. Mau Mau freedom fighter Field Marshal Dedan Kimathi’s daughter, Wanjugu Kimathi, said the foundation named in her father's honour has raised Sh70 million. “That is very little amount bearing in mind what we are required to pay,” she said. She said there is a need for descendants of Mau Mau fighters and their children to be appreciated by being given land so they can lead decent lives. Kimathi, Wanjugu said, should also be given a befitting burial. She spoke at Ruring’u stadium in Nyeri town on Saturday during a meeting for Dedan Kimathi Foundation members. Wanjugu said the foundation has written to President Uhuru Kenyatta, his deputy William Ruto, governors, the United Kingdom, the American and Russian governments seeking for help. The UK government responded saying it will drill boreholes and supply water to homes of the fighters and their families once they are settled, but will not offer the cash. DP Ruto convened a meeting with the foundation members at his official residence in Karen, Nairobi, where they discussed the settlement plan. He pledged to inform the president of their visit and request. “We have formed a committee of 15 people and we are in the process of identifying the real Mau Mau fighters and all those who were held in harsh conditions such as detention camps or prison among others during the struggle so they can be honoured and appreciated,” Wanjugu said. For those who have died, she said, the foundation is working with members of their families so that they are brought on board. “As we speak, there are talks going on between the Dedan Kimathi Foundation and the government of Kenya to find the way forward,” she said. She said there is a 54,000-acre government land between Nanyuki and Rumuruti in Laikipia county whose lease has ended and the government is planning to give them allotment letters so that members can be settled there, she said. The foundation has about 12,000 members from all over the country. (edited by O. Owino)