Kenya Ports Authority employees have defended Managing Director Daniel Manduku against corruption allegations, saying cartels are out to get him. Manduku recently cancelled various inflated tenders. The Port Workers Welfare and Performance Group has termed the claims laughable and fabricated. Addressing the press on Monday in Mombasa, group officials said Manduku has made enemies at the port because he has refused to 'dance to their tune'. “A cartel is being used to manipulate holders of the seat. This they hit a brick wall and now they are reacting as they know best — by framing an innocent man,” group chairman Waweru Kamau said. Secretary Ali Khamis and organising secretary Peter Ouma said one has to be tough to face the cartel operating at the port. “Manduku has thick skin and is bold enough to say 'no'. That's why some frustrated syndicate heads are busy hatching plot after plot to ensure Manduku leaves so their trade can thrive,” Ouma said. The three officials said productivity increased tremendously since Manduku took over. This is no coincidence, they said. The MD is has been accused of allowing a possible Sh6 billion loss. Manduku has rejected accusations saying business interests and high-political power plays are behind his problems. “These are just business interests. I had foreseen this, but the truth will eventually come out,” he told the Star in a phone interview last Tuesday. Kamau, Khamis and Ouma said for the short time he has been at the helm of KPA, Manduku has been resisted for his achievements in ensuring growth. “He is being fought. We are aware of what is happening.” They said the graft allegations will not distract port employees from discharging their duties diligently, efficiently and effectively. They asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to form a secret team to probe problems at the port and to report to him directly for the truth to come out. the three said a wider scheme to remove Manduku from KPA is ongoing. "The cartels include some unscrupulous suppliers who are out to edge Manduku out of KPA before his three-year contract lapses," Kamau said. The PWWP officials said cartels started plotting after Manduku cancelled all inflated tenders worth more than Sh19 billion. The cancelled tenders included the relocation of KPA headquarters for Sh7 billion, a Sh1 billion terminal operations system and Sh1 billion to buy land for expansion of the  Inland Container Depot in Nairobi. "The inflated tenders were done in 2015 before he was appointed to the port's helm and, therefore, port employees should dismiss baseless rumours," the chairman said. The officials urgedthe government to protect Manduku against the cartels as he continues the war against graft at the port. Kamau said Manduku's war against graft will enable his port master plan 2018-47 to succeed. While flagging off the first batch of 200,000 barrels of crude oil from the Mombasa Port on August 26, President Uhuru Kenyatta warned that he should not be blamed when graft culprits at the port are sent home. He said the DCI would come down hard on those perpetrating graft. Edited by R.Wamochie