Counties will know tomorrow the amount of money they will each get from the Sh316 billion that Parliament last week allocated to them this financial year. The County Allocation Revenue Bill, 2019 that shares the cash in the Division of Revenue Act is set to introduced in the Senate. Finance and Budget Committee chairman and Mandera Senator Mohamed Mohamud will introduce the bill in the House tomorrow afternoon. Mohamud will table the bill for First Reading in the Kitui county assembly chambers where the Senate has pitched tent this week. The whole House is in Kitui for the second 'Senate Mashinani' and will be transacting all its business from there. This is the second time the House is transacting business, including plenary session, out of Nairobi. Last year, the Senate held inaugural sittings outside the country's capital in Governor Jackson Mandago’s Uasin Gishu county The passage of CARA will unlock the billions that have been stuck at the Treasury since July. The devolved unites have not received funds from the Treasury since the beginning of the year following a stalemate in Parliament between the National Assembly and the Senate. The two Houses clashed over the amount should be allocated to the counties in the Division of Revenue Bill, 2019. The crucial bill splits the money collected by the Kenya Revenue Authority between the national government and the counties. The Senate had insisted that the counties should get Sh335 billion while the National Assembly had maintained that they should be allocated Sh316 billion. The stand-off lasted more than three months, plunging the regional government into a serious cash crisis. However, the Senate beat a hasty retreat two weeks ago and accepted the Sh316 billion proposed by the National Assembly. Since the inception of devolution in 2013, Nairobi has been receiving the highest allocation of funds from the National Treasury. The formula developed by the Commission on Revenue Allocation has continued to favour the city. The allocation is mostly based on the population and geographical size of the counties. Last year, Nairobi received Sh15.7 billion from the Sh314 billion that the 47 counties were allocated. It was followed by Kilifi, Turkana and Nakuur counties. Lamu, Tharaka Nithi and Elgeyo Marakwet counties are at the bottom of the log.