Poland-based forward Joshua Chisanga has been recalled to the Kenya Simbas squad for the Victoria Cup clash against Zimbabwe at the Nakuru Athletic club tomorrow. Chisanga, who plies his trade for RC Orkan Sorchaczew, will make his first appearance for the side since the Rugby World Cup qualifiers last year in France. Chisanga has not featured in tests matches against Uganda, Zimbabwe and Zambia due to club commitments but was glad to be back to don colours for the national team. "It's good to be back in the squad and I hope the rest of the team can play their roles well and win the match against Zimbabwe. Other changes in the squad see Ian Njenga start at tighthead prop with Emmanuel Mavala coming in at second row alongside Malcolm Onsando. KCB utility back Vincent Onyala starts at the centre with Timothy Okwemba getting the nod on the wing. On the bench, Elisha Koronya, Frank Mutuku, Ian Masheti, Brian Juma and Samuel Were will be handed debuts. Samson Onsomu will skipper the side and will be assisted by Impala teammate Elkeans Musonye. Announcing the squad yesterday, team manager Jimmi Mnene said some players were dropped from the team owing to indiscipline issues. "Following our Zambia game last month, some of the players broke team protocol regulations and a number of familiar faces were dropped,” added Mnene. Kenya lost the first game to the Sables 30-29 last month and Onsomu is keen to bounce back from the defeat and finish the international season on a high. "We started slowly in the game in Bulawayo and had to play catch up but this return leg gives us an opportunity to correct the errors we saw in the away fixture and win,” added Onsomu. This will be the second time that a test match is being played away from its traditional base in Nairobi with Kenya having hosted Uganda at the Mamboleo Showground in Kisumu in June. Onsomu asked fans to turn up in big numbers for the clash. “ We are asking our supporters to come and cheer us to victory,” added Onsomu. Team:Antony Odhiambo (Impala), 14. Geoffrey Okwach(KCB), 13.Vincent Onyala (KCB), 12. John Okoth (Nakuru) 11.Timothy Okwemba( Oilers) 10.Charles Kuka( Pirates) 9.Samson Onsomu(Impala), 11. Ian Njenga (Nondies), 2.Toby Francombe (Nondies), 3.Melvin Thairu (Quins), 4. Emmanuel Mavala (RC Okan), 5. Malcolm Onsando (Quins), 6. Joshua Chisanga (RC Okan), 7. Monate Akuei (Nakuru) and  8. Elkeans Musonye( Impala). Substitutes: 16. Frank Mutuku (Nondies),  17. Elisa Koronya (Quins), 18. Ian Masheti (Impala), 19. Brian Juma (Kabras), 20. Samuel Were (Oilers), 21. Barry Robinson (Kabras), 22. Tony Omondi (Mwamba) and 23. Michael Kimwele (KCB).