The government has asked Kenyans who might have obtained work permits from suspicious sources to visit the Immigration offices for verification. This comes after two people were arrested in connection to the issuance of fake work permits to a number of firms across the country. The Interior Ministry said the arrests were made following a sting operation conducted jointly with officers from the Immigration docket. Other accomplices who are on the run are being sought. "Those who may have obtained work permits from suspicious sources should quickly visit the Immigration Offices to confirm whether they have genuine documents. This applies to all who did not personally pick their permits," a statement from the ministry. According to the Interior docket, Kenya remains keen on ensuring the integrity of its work permits is not compromised. The statement said anyone who attempts to engage in such unscrupulous practices will be apprehended and will face the full force of law. "The government would like to advise investors, expatriates and persons seeking residence status to engage the Department of Immigration Services directly through the established systems and procedures," the statement read. The government further asked its stakeholders to avoid short-cuts that are always promoted by unauthorised elements as this will land them in trouble. "The process of issuance of work permits is elaborate and involves online interaction with the Immigration Department. If you are caught holding fake or fraudulently obtained work/residence permit you will be prosecuted," it said. Last week police released a report indicating that a total of 2,173 aliens and undocumented were immigrants arrested all over the country. According to the annual report on crime statistics, these immigrants are said to have made their way to the country to seek better opportunities. In the report, the highest number of those arrested were Tanzanians and Ethiopians who accounted for more than 40 per cent. The aliens included Tanzanians 455 (21%), Ethiopians 452 (21%), Somali 281 (13%), Nigeria 146 (7%) South Sudanese 137 (6%) and Ugandans 106 (5%). Other nationalities included Sudanese, Burundians, Chinese, Congolese, Rwandese, Britons, Indians, Germans, Italians, South African, Canadian, Egyptian, Guineans and unknown nationalities who accounted for less than 100 people.