Parents of a church-owned school in Kiambu want the institution closed owing to mismanagement. The parents of Ngarariga Bethel Academy in Limuru constituency, allege that the school does not pay teachers. They say the teachers resign every term of frustration. Parent Salome Muthoni said they are unhappy because there is no pupil in Standard 7 since their parents have transferred them to other schools. "This is has been a problem that has dogged this school for so long. Parents have started moving their children out owing to the unsolved problem. There are no Standard 7 pupils in the school,” she said. She spoke at the church on Monday, when the school board called a crisis meeting. Bethel Church bishop Joseph Moilo begged for patience. The cleric, who is also the patron of the school, said the problem they are facing emanated from parents who never paid school fees for three years and their arrears stands at more than Sh1 million. However, Moilo said the church had obtained a bank loan of Sh100,000 to pay teachers so that they do not run away. Some parents walked out of the meeting in protest. "Let me go and look for a school for my children. I'm disappointed" a parent said while walking away. Some asked management to return the school fees they had paid for third term so that they can transfer their children to other neighbouring schools. Another parent who did not say his name asked the education ministry to investigate books of accounts of the school. A teacher who sought for anonymity in fear of intimidation said they suffer paying house rents, feeding their families and meeting other life expenditures. The school head teacher Lucy Waithera urged parents not to go with the idea of closing the school over an issue that can be solved once and for all. "The people who started this school had a vision. Do not kill it. Let us join hands to support the management in making our school stable" she urged. However, sub county education director James Murage said he was not aware of the issue adding that his office had embarked on investigation. Another parent Sarah Kaluu said she felt the issue were addressed and learning will continue normally. "Am happy the issues have been addressed correctly, and I hope all will be well. The board has borrowed money to pay teachers arrears, while we commit ourselves in paying fees and the issue will be a thing of the past. Am opposed to its closure" Kaluu said.