Two of  Samburu Governor Moses Lenolkulal's accounts held at Kenya Commercial Bank have been frozen. The High Court on September 10 issued orders denying him access to the accounts until a case filed by the EACC is heard. Lenolkulal, who has been charged with several counts related to corruption, will also not be able to develop or sell four pieces of prime land in Karen. Justice Charles Kariuki ruled that the anti-graft agency had proved that the governor would tamper with the properties if the court did not bar him from accessing them until their case was heard and determined. “Pending inter-parties hearing and determination of this application, an injunction is hereby issued restraining the governor from selling, charging, leasing or developing four pieces of land, all located in Karen, Nairobi,” the court ordered. The EACC told the court that they filed the case for recovery or confiscation of millions of shillings as proceeds of corruption and for forfeiture of the parcels of land referred to and acquired with the proceeds of corrupt conduct. The EACC had earlier received orders preserving four properties owned by Lenolkulal in Karen, for a period of six months. Those orders elapsed on September 5. The EACC claims that in the course of their investigations, which are now complete, they established that in the financial years 2013-14 to 2018-19 the governor entered into contracts with the county government of Samburu to supply fuel through Oryx Service Station, which is a business registered in his name. He allegedly received Sh80,763,715 during the period being payments arising out of said contracts for the supply of fuel through an account at Kenya Commercial Bank held in Oryx Ltd's name. “That in so doing, he engaged in a conflict of interest explicitly prohibited as an offence under Section 42(3) of the Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Act 2003,” the application reads in part. It is alleged that Lenolkulal using the proceeds of corruption or related to corruption invested the same by purchasing four plots of land in Karen at Sh15 million each, amounting to Sh60 million. The case will be mentioned on October 2 for further directions.