MPs are trying to determine whether South Korean envoy nominee Mwende Mwinzi has renounced her US citizenship, thus allowing her to take the posting. Speaker Justin Muturi directed the Implementation committee to verify claims by a member that the nominee is contemplating taking the job without giving  up US citizenship. The matter arose following a statement by Endebess MP Robert Pukose who claimed he has information on the nominee’s intentions. The lawmaker, in a motion in the chambers on Tuesday, said he has information Mwende was seeking to move to Seoul before renouncing her citizenship. “Information available is that the nominee intends to take up the position without heeding the condition set by this House that she renounces her US citizenship,” Pukose said. “I  request you to order the chairpersons of the Committees on Foreign Relations as well as Implementation committee to confirm this fact and inform the House.” He also asked the speaker to issue guidance regarding approvals with such conditions. “Would it be best to reject the nominations without setting conditions?” Pukose asked. Members said it awkward that nominations are approved with conditions whose implementation is hard to track. This followed reports that a similar scenario is likely to play out among some nominees tipped for National Lands Commission jobs. Mwende’s nomination was approved on June 6 alongside those of envoys to the United Arab Emirates, Algeria, Ireland, Sweden and Zambia. The Constitution bars state officers from holding dual citizenship, a matter that heavily relies on the disclosure by the officer. A violation of this provision is criminal. Muturi asked Pukose to appear before the Lands committee to provide his information regarding the NLC nominees with such dual citizenship issues. Majority leader Aden Duale urged the Endebess lawmaker to present evidence of his claims. “As Pukose appears before the committee, he should present facts and figures. He should not claim that the government has acted in contravention of the law without these.” Duale added, “He has no photos of the lady presenting credentials to the President of South Korea…with your permission, the Defence chair should have asked the CS Foreign Affairs to appear before the committee to clarify the matter." Kisumu West MP Olago Aluoch said the issue was fundamental saying there has been no precedent set before. He asked the speaker to issue formal communication on the steps to be taken when such a matter arises. Edited by R.Wamochie