Two Kilifi police officers charged with murdering an unarmed 17-year-old Katana Kazungu on June 26, 2018, tried to conceal evidence after shooting him, the High Court in Malindi heard yesterday. Witnesses told the court that Kazungu's parents and a village elder began looking for him the following day after he had gone missing. Simeon Oyoo Ayodo and Amos Kiptoo Kipsang have been charged with murdering the Standard 7 pupil of Ndatani Primary School in Kaloleni constituency . Three witnesses, who were among those who pushed the stuck lorry, gave their testimony before Justice Reuben Nyakundi. They said the officers ambushed them and ordered them to lie down. They threatened to kill them. Witnesses Ndoro Joto Mbale, Sulubu Kahindi Kitsao and Said Kahindi Kitsao said at first they thought they had been attacked by  al Shabaab. Kazungu tried escape and he was shot. The witnesses said they heard two gunshots. Mbale, who was Kazungu's neighbour, said on that day a client had called  him requesting to buy slubs from their quarry in Tsangatsini,. He  picked him up at Mariakani and drove to the quarry at around 4.30 pm. The witness said he called his brothers to help in loading the slubs and they found Kazungu near the quarry with his bicycle. Mbale said his vehicle got stuck when they began their journey as it was raining. "At 3am, I saw torches. We did not know what it was. I heard someone saying, kill! kill! I was under the vehicle and couldn't run away. I hid behind a spare tyre,'' he said. Mbale said when he realised they were police officer, he joined the others and the driver who was handcuffed. In the morning, the witness said the OCS Mariakani removed the driver's handcuffs and allowed them to leave. However, the car got stuck again. ''On June 27, 2018, Katana's father Kazungu Fondo came home and asked where his son was. We returned to the scene togther with a village elder but he was missing,'' he said. They called the chief and the village elder was told to go to the police station from where they were referred to the Coast General Hospital mortuary. Kitsao gave a similar version. He said he ran for dear life. ''I started running towards home. I heard two gunshots as I fled,'' he said. Kahindi said he saw Kitsao running but did not see the late Katana. He said he could not escape, but saw a police car. Barbara Sombo from the Office of the Director Of Public Prosecutions led the witnesses in testifying while the accused were represented by lawyer Jared Magolo. Muslim for Human Rights is enjoined in the case as an interested party. The hearing continues.