 The Mombasa county government has sought an out of court settlement in a case where it has been sued contempt of court after it painted a commercial building against orders. The county's lawyer Paul Buti on Monday told the court his client was pursuing an out of court settlement. He said he needed more time to file a response in the case in which the county government was sued for painting Sleek Lady Cosmetics Limited premises. Most buildings in Mombasa CBD have been repainted following the county's directive in the beautification of the coastal city. But Best Lady, as the company is better known, challenged the directive in court saying their building could not be repainted because pink is its brand and trading colour. The cosmetics shop last year got interim orders barring the county government from implementing the notice requiring painting of all buildings in white and blue. However, three weeks ago, the county government repainted the premises along Digo Road, replacing the pink colour with white. Best Lady's lawyers, Marcelino Lesaigor and Samuel Kariuki, accused transport and infastructure executive Tawfiq Balala and chief officer Albert Keno of committing illegality. “To our utter shock, on September 2 and in total disregard of the court orders, the county government forcefully painted some of our client’s premises,” Lesaigor said. The company sued the county executive and the county government. During the last appearance in court in January, Justice Eric Ogola had directed parties to try an out of court settlement. Best Lady said Governor Hassan Joho had no powers to issue directives to repaint buildings, saying the order illegal. Best Lady has been in business for over 15 years with pink as its brand color. An affidavit filed by its director Peter Njoroge Karanja, the company said, “The implementation of the directive will deny us the right to use our long term trademarks and branding, which would inevitably lead to loss of customers and business earnings.” The cosmetics shop has branches in Karatina, Kitui, Machakos, Eldoret, Nyeri, Nakuru, Bungoma, Kitale, Meru, Maua and Mombasa. Best Lady wants the county officials to be confined to six months in jail. The case will be mentioned on October 17.  edited by peter obuya