Kenya Tea Development Agency plans to process 30 million kilos of green leaf to orthodox tea yearly in each of its 10 factories. It takes about five kilos of green leaf to make one kilo of tea. The diversification by the KTDA to orthodox tea production is meant to gain a foothold in the world market for specialty teas and increase income for farmers. Gitugi Tea Factory started processing the tea two months ago with plans to start selling the product next month. KTDA manager region 2 Peter Kinyua said they started piloting on orthodox tea in Kangaita Factory in Kirinyaga before moving to other factories. "This was after the venture turned out to be successful," he said. Kinyua spoke to the media at Gitugi Tea Factory in Othaya, Nyeri, on Friday. “From one factory of Kangaita we now have seven factories producing orthodox tea. The latest is Gitugi which started the production of orthodox tea two months ago and we have three more factories that are coming up,” he said. KTDA expects to have 10 factories producing orthodox tea by December. Currently, there is more than 200 million kilos of cut tear and curl (CTC) tea being overproduced yearly in the world and, therefore, the need to diversify to other products. Kinyua said the market is very depressed because of the overproduction. Market for CTC has dropped by Sh50 per kilo. “That means per every kilo of tea, we have lost 60 kilos in the market. If converted to green tea, then the farmer will have lost Sh15 per kilo of green leaf,” he said. This is being reflected in the bonus given to farmers as growers are paid based on how the tea is sold. Kinyua said KTDA intends to have more factories expand but cited the shortage of finances which is holding many of them back. "I believe the government is looking at how it can assist the factories to get cheaper loans so that we can have almost each one of them get a line of orthodox production for diversification,” he said. Kinyua said the market for CTC tea globally is depressed as the currency in Pakistan has been devalued by 50 per cent. He said this will affect the market as Pakistan buys about 40 per cent of Kenyan tea. Therefore, lack of buying power will depress prices. Kinyua said Iran is a good market for orthodox and CTC teas. But the country faces sanctions from America while Sudan has been facing issues of inflation and political instability. The countries are not able to buy as much tea as Kenya would wish them to buy. Another market, Yemen, is also facing political instability. Gitugi Tea Factory chairman Peter Muchiri said they were previously processing CTC teas but the board, management and farmers thought it wise to start Orthodox teas. Orthodox tea, he said, will earn more in the market compared to the CTC types saying in the market most of the teas are going 3.5 to 6 dollars per kilo depending on quality.