As preparations for the national athletics trials to the 2019 World Championships hit the home straight, seven of Kenya's top middle and distance runners can sit pretty knowing a ticket on the train is already secured. According to the IAAF entry rules, all outdoor champions, as well as Diamond Series winners, are entitled to wild cards, putting at least seven of those rare chances on the Kenyan contingent. Geoffrey Kirui (marathon), Faith Chapng'etich (1,500m), Conseslus Kipruto (3,000m steeplechase), Helle Obiri (5,000m) and Elijah Manang'oi (1,500m) are eligible to defend their titles. In addition, Timothy Cheruiyot (1,500m) and Beatrice Chepkoech (3,000m steeplechase)  also have their entries assured after winning their respective races during the just concluded IAAF Diamond League series. National athletics head coach Julius Kirwa observed that having such athletes already assured of their tickets is a good thing but observed that Cheruiyot/Manang'oi situation is a tricky one. "We can only have four athletes in any particular event but the situation in the men's 1,500m race is leading us to five... three as per our trials and the two wild cards," said Kirwa. "This means that these athletes must make the teams through the trials where we will take three across the line and the fourth as a wild cardholder." Kirwa, however, observed that this is a welcome headache because it will ensure high competition during the trials. "I think this is a good thing for us. Having such a number of potentials already aware of what is needed of them ensures that we already have some of the best runners within our ranks," added Kirwa. The trials set for this week will see a rich field of 25-lap race specialists battle to join Obiri in the 5,000m team. Obiri will skip the trials though, as she takes time to recover after a gruelling Diamond League series competition. "I will not run at the trials. I want to take a rest since I will be attempting the double in Doha," said Obiri, who qualified for the 10,000m during the national championships on August 21. Obiri, interestingly, said she is not worried about the hot and humid conditions expected in Doha as she seeks to slip into the shoes of Olympic 5,000m champions Vivian Cheruiyot. "That is not a big problem for me," she said. "I actually love running in hot conditions. If nothing changes between now and the competition, then I know I will be able to give a good account of myself." In her absence, world half marathon record holder Joyceline Jepkosgei, former world cross country champion Agnes Jebet and reigning world cross country junior champion, Beatrice Chebet, headline the start list. Others are Daegu 3,000m steeplechase bronze medallist Mercy Wanjiru, 2014 Commonwealth Games champion Mercy Cherono and 2019 All Africa Games 5,000m champion Lilian Kasait. Others are 2014 Commonwealth Games silver medalist Janet Kisa, Mercy Wanjiru, Norah Jeruto and Daisy Jepkemei.