Kenya might avoid one of the worst food shortage crises because the coming short rains are expected to be heavy in most places. The meteorological department assured Kenyans that all projections show the country will receive enhanced rains between October and December. The rains will be heaviest in November, said Stella Aura, head of the department. She said the rains will begin in the second week of October in most places and end in December. “The distribution of rainfall in time and space is expected to be generally good over most places especially during October and the peak month of November,” she told the media yesterday at the Met headquarters in Nairobi. She noted the good rains might forestall a food crisis that was already growing. Currently, about 2.6 million Kenyans are facing acute food shortage, an increase from the estimated 1.6 million in May, according to the National Drought Management Authority. NDMA had warned the current situation, caused by the poor March-May rains, would worsen if the October-December short rains failed. "With adequate preparations, the country can avoid some of the likely negative impacts while taking full advantage of the positive ones," Aura said yesterday. She said the ongoing rains in Western Kenya will continue until December. In most parts of the Rift Valley, enhanced rains will begin in the second or third week next month and end by the second week of December. Nairobi, central Kenya and the Eastern counties of Embu, Meru, Tharaka and parts of Isiolo will receive enhanced rains beginning the second or third week of October, until the second to third week of December. Southeastern Kenya - which comprises Ukambani - and Tana River and Taita Taveta, will receive delayed rains the first week of November, ceasing in the third to fourth week of December. The Coast will receive rains the second or third week next month, until the second week of December. Deputy director Samuel Mwangi urged farmers not to rush to plant, without consulting agricultural officers. "The proper rains will begin in October, what we are seeing now in many places are off-season rains and will not last," he said. Bernard Chanzu, the deputy director in charge of forecasting,  explained that enhanced rains means does not mean heavy, uniform downpour across the country. "It will be near or above average compared to the average rains for specific regions. This means some parts of Kenya will still not have adequate rains for crops," he said. In the forecast, Aura warned lightning strikes may occur especially in counties like Kisii, Kisumu, Kakamega and Bungoma (Mt. Elgon areas). The rains may also trigger communicable diseases while causing transportation chaos. "The expected rainfall may cause slippery roads in some parts of the country. This may result in conditions that may cause accidents," she said. Kenyans should also not expect electricity rationing because the major river catchment areas for the country’s hydroelectric power generating dams are forecast to receive near-average to above-average rainfall. "This means that surface water run-offs may register increased inflows into rivers Sondu Miriu, Tana and Athi," Aura said. 