Security heads in Murang’a county are looking to arrest Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro after he caused a fracas at a church on Sunday. County Criminal Investigations officer Julius Rutere on Monday said that the MP committed a range of criminal offences when he stormed Gitui Catholic church in his constituency on Sunday. Rutere asked the MP to surrender to the nearest police station, adding he will not be able to avoid the arrest. He further revealed that once arrested, the MP will be charged with several counts of offences including creating a disturbance, assaulting police officers and resisting arrest. He said a number of complainants, including police officers, have recorded statements with the police which will help in their investigations. “Anyone who sees him should tell him to surrender because he can run but he cannot hide,” he said. County commander of police Josphat Kinyua said the police are conducting investigations into the matter. Afterwards, all those who were involved in causing chaos during the church function will be arrested and charged in court. “We have also received statements from the church chairman to establish the source of the problem,” he said. Kinyua said the scuffle started after the MP defied orders from the father in charge to sit down and let the ceremony continue. He said his defiance caused the confrontations that lasted over 10 minutes. Kinyua said the father in charge and the police officers who were in attendance managed to restore calm. The MP had accused nominated MP Maina Kamanda of undermining him and constantly telling him that he will be politically destroyed should he not leave Tanga Tanga. The MP declined to hand over the microphone to Kamanda who was the guest, insisting that he should have been the one to invite guests as the area MP. But Kamanda insisted that the MPs in attendance were his guests and he was the guest. Their exchange escalated to confrontations between supporters of Kieleweke and Tanga Tanga groups. The police later tried to arrest the MP outside the church, but he was shielded by supporters. Meanwhile, Murang’a Catholic Bishop James Wainaina has banned politicians from church fundraisings in Murang’a and Kirinyaga counties until further notice. The Bishop termed the incident regrettable, saying the politicians actions were disrespectful to the church. “They set a bad precedent and treated the House of God as a place where political scores can be settled,” he said. The bishop said many politicians take gatherings of Christians as convenient platforms for self-proposition in elective posts. “I feel this incident is a strong confirmation of the reasons to limit time and pace offered to politicians,” he said. He said it also put the church on guard that a situation that looks innocent can become uncontrollably ugly and embarrassing if the wrong people are allowed to take control of Christian gatherings. The Bishop called for tolerance among politicians and decorum while expressing their political views. “The Catholic Diocese of Murang’a demands an apology from those involved,” he said.Ends