Fresh-faced doesn't even begin to describe Kibra parliamentary aspirant Dorn Anaclet. The 26-year-old student hails from Asumbi, HomaBay County. Dorn is one of the candidates for the Kibra by-election, under Former President Mwai Kibaki's Democratic Party. Dorn, or "Kijana-mdogo" (young -man) as his supporters like to call him, is not your typical candidate. He is young, has no political connections or clout unlike his more experienced and older competitors. Dorn, unlike the others, conducts his daily campaigns on foot under the scorching Kibra sun selling his manifesto to the locals. He loves reaching out to supporters on foot to better identify with the ordinary voter on the ground, but also it's all he can afford at the moment. "The sun, long distances do not hinder me from reaching out to residents for support. I am optimistic I will win the Kibra seat come November 7," he said. Breaking the hold Dorn's life has been riddled with a series of misfortunes. He lost his parents in 2005 when he was only 12 years. At 13, he left Homabay for Nairobi to try his luck in life. He settled in Kibra slums which he says had so many residents from his community - the Luos. During his stay in Kibra, God answered his prayers and a good samaritan helped him through his education. He embarked on the educational journey that saw him scoring exceptional marks in his examinations. "Bila mama au baba masomo ndo ngao yao (Education is the key to success especially if you are an orphan)," he said. His manifesto is concentrated around three pillars; education, water and sanitation. So how will a greenhorn beat the field? Education Background Dorn did his high school in Orero Boys High School scoring a mean grade of A- of 74 aggregate points. He got a full scholarship and joined Nairobi University where he did a double major in Bachelor of Arts Degree in Economics and Sociology. He graduated in 2016 with a Bachelor of Arts Degree in Economics and Sociology (Second Class Upper Division). Currently, he is pursuing a Masters Degree in International Development at the University of Nairobi. "I believe am best suited to be the next Kibra MP. My life has been riddled with so many misfortunes that relate with so many people in the slums. Some are orphans,widows others are draining in abject poverty. They need a leader like me who has passed through all that and emerged a victor," he said. He also said that his education attainment is very useful in Kibra politics. "Studying Economics and Sociology helps make sense of governmental policy-making, the conduct of businesses and the enormous economic transformations," he said. Political Background The former University of Nairobi student leader has been elected three times to serve in different dockets in SONU. In 2015 /16 he was the Deputy Speaker at SONU. "I was identified as a speaker at the May 2015 International Union of Socialist Youths (IUSY) World Congress-Yerevan in Armenia," he said. He is a certified gender equality and advocacy leader specialised in training, volunteerism and youth engagement. Dorn is a long-time consultant in Sexual Reproductive Health for Youth and Women, Project Management, Financial Management, Capacity Building, Monitoring and Evaluation and Organization Development having worked with the Social Democratic Youth of Denmark (DSU) for a long period of time. Hobbies He has spent most of the time playing basketball and mentoring youths in Kibra. He played for the University of Nairobi basketball team -UoN Terrorists- as the point guard between 2012 and 2016) in the top leagues.) He hopes to continue the social-economic revolution of Kibra as envisioned by the late fallen MP Okoth along the lines of social democratic and economic focus should he clinch the seat. He will battle it out with 22 other candidates during the by-election on November 7. Should Dorn become the next Kibra MP, he will join a list of young faces in Kenya’s political arena that includes MPs, governors and senators. They are MCAs Grace Sundukwa, 24 (Sitikho ward Bungoma), Simon Muturi, 24, (Muruguru-Gatitu Ward Nyeri County), MP John Paul, 23 (Igembe South), Nandi Governor Stephen Sang 32 and Kericho Senator Aaron Cheruiyot.