Cancer patients from Bomet will get services and drugs at a lower cost following the launch of a chemotherapy centre at Longisa County Referral Hospital. Governor Hillary Barchok said the unit, which is the first in the region, will greatly reduce the hassles of patients who seek treatment in Nairobi and Eldoret. The unit, which was opened on Monday by Health Cabinet Secretary Sicily Kariuki, was set up by the county in partnership with the national government. It is in line with Jubilee's Big Four agenda on health. It is now one of the 10 chemotherapy centres in the country. The unit, Kariuki said, will help ease congestion at Kenyatta National Hospital which is the only one offering radiotherapy. Cancer treatment is either through surgery, chemotherapy or radiotherapy. By December, the CS said, a radiotherapy unit will be installed at the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital to reduce the workload at KNH. On Friday, Barchok said 19 new cancer cases were reported in the county. He said in the joint venture, the national government renovated the existing structures at the facility and provided a chemotherapy preparation hood for mixing medicines. It also provided five chemotherapy seats. The state also provided chemotherapy drugs worth Sh2 million. Among the services to be offered at the facility are screening and chemotherapeutic and palliative care. Cancer drugs, which the official said are expensive, will now be sold at the facility but at subsidised costs. Staff set to operate at the unit have already been trained with consultants and oncologists from the MTRH set to visit the facility every month to attend to cancer patients as well as provide pathologic laboratory support services. An oncologist from MTRH will be visiting the unit weekly to assess the cancer patients being received and refer those for radiotherapy to KNH, Barchok said. The governor termed the opening of the unit a milestone in the county and entire South Rift at a time when cancer cases are on the rise. Edited by R.Wamochie