On September 22 the entertainment world will come to a standstill for the 2019 Emmy Awards, in a red carpet thriller from Microsoft Theater in Los Angeles. While the 71st annual awards will be thrilling viewers, book lovers will pick out the books that inspired these nine nominees to the prestigious awards from the bookshelves into the screen. 1. A Games of Thrones by George R. R. Martin inspired Game of Thrones (HBO)- 32 nominations If you think guys who have never watched Game of Thrones behaved like they have a masters degree in maturity during discussion, wait for a doctorate in maturity for a guy who has read A Games of Thrones by George R. R. Martin. The first of seven books in the series A Song of Ice and Fire by the author (two are yet to be written, dig that) covers the fictional world in Westeros which churned the series which has already won awards (both in books and screenplay) It involves a power struggle between seven kingdoms, having the best captivating series which ended this season in a grand finale and shattered earlier Emmy records, earning a staggering 32 nominations, marking this the fourth time it breaks the same records. 2. Voices From Chernobyl: The Oral History of a Nuclear Disaster by Svetlana Alexievich inspired Chernobyl (HBO)- 6 nominations In a five-part series, this nomination centres on the April 26, 1986, Chernobyl Nuclear Plant disaster in Ukraine. The series stars Jared Harris, Stellan Skarsgård and Emily Watson. The show’s creator and writer Craig Mazin said the book, which he termed as "Absolutely essential, and heartbreaking, reading," helped him in gleaning historical data, varied accounts and oral histories which made it possible to fly from the bookshelf to screen. First published in Russian in 1997 and translated into English in 2006, Alexievich was a journalist who interviewed over 500 affected by the disaster to present the first personal account to the world. 3. Fosse by Sam Wasson inspired Fosse/Verdon (FX)- 6 nominations Sam Wasson, a literary critic wrote the short biography on Bob Fosse a dancer and iconic artist who interesting also won an Emmy in 1973, the same year he also bagged a Tony and an Oscar. The book entails his major work, his battle with insecurity, being faithful to a single woman, cigarette smoking and complex relation with his staff. The screen title added Gwen Verdon, his former wife, fellow choreographer and also a gifted dancer who was with him when he collapsed and died in 1987. 4. Sharp Objects by Gillian Flynn has inspired Sharp Objects (HBO)- 3 nominations The second book I have partly read in the list Sharp Objects was first published in 2006 as a debut novel by author Gillian Flynn, and her uniqueness of having a female lead investigator in a thriller novel bagged it the shift to screen as directed by Jean-Marc Vallée. I had it in my phone three years ago as the story of Camille Preaker, a newspaper journalist who was once interred in a psychiatrist ward tries to uncover three brutal murders. The madness and psychological trauma of Preaker, her mother and half-sister (the first book I read tackling women madness) kept me from finishing the book, even the title Sharp Objects is derived from self-inflicted pains on verge of madness. 5. A Very English Scandal by John Preston has inspired A Very English Scandal (BBC/Amazon)- 4 nominations The book covers the life of British Liberal political party leader Jeremy Thorpe (played by Hugh Grant) who, with three other men, was tried and acquitted of the murder of his ex-lover Norman Scott (played by Ben Whishaw). Published in 2016, the book covers and well-liked public figure who was a secret homosexual in a sexual relationship with a young man Scott who demanded cash incentives as Thorpe’s star rose. As a leader Liberal party, with colleagues, Thorpe tried to buy off Scott’s silence, until he was found murdered. The book and the series makes a good comedy-drama. 6.The Handmaid’s Tale by Margaret Atwood inspired The Handmaid’s Tale (Hulu)- 3 nominations The series is adapted from Margaret Atwood's 1985 novel based in fictional Gilead republic where powerful men control the lives of women. The book and the series is told from Offred, a handmaid separated from her family to bear children for powerful families as starred by Elisabeth Moss, Ann Dowd, Samira Wiley, among others. The book has won several nominations and awards, with a sequel The Testaments expected later this year and an Emmy will be a boost for the book which places the place of women in a patriarchal society. 7. Orange is the New Black: My Year in a Women’s Prison by Piper Kerman has inspired Orange is the New Black (Netflix) Orange, the main colour of prison garb is the new black, to show a move away from black which is famous colour in design by highlighting the life of a white woman giving gender and colour in prison movie. It covers 15 months memoir by Piper Kerman who is charged with money laundering for a drug trafficking ring which covers politics and condition of in women prisons. As well educated white women from a wealthy family, the writer is known as Piper Chapman on Netflix's series which is overemphasized in the screen unlike in the memoir which ended at the seventh season. 8. House of Cards Michael Dobbs led to his story being adapted into a miniseries for BBC in 1990 The House of Cards by Michael Dobbs was published in 1989, a year later it was adapted into a miniseries for BBC set in United Kingdom about Francis Urquhart, a fictitious character out to do anything to be the prime minister. In 2013 Netflix revamped the series to centre on American politics on congressional majority whip, who aided with his wife, use ruthless manipulation and betrayal to gain power. 9. Codename Villanelle by Luke Jennings for Killing Eve (BBC)- 9 nominations The British author first published the four e-novellas between 2014-16 follows Villanelle a Russian orphan who revenge on her father’s death before being trained as an assassin. She meets Eve Polastri, a M15 agent, out to nab her Eve in a plot to kill the sly assassin and those who aid her moves across the world covering corrupt governments and criminal organisations.