A  burglar was on Saturday night caught breaking into a Seventh Day Church in Kisii in what appears to be a spate of attacks directed at the church. Guards at Millennium SDA Church in Jogoo Estate in Kisii town found the suspect cutting the padlocks to gain entry into the church building. He was armed with a panga. Church officials, however, set him free saying they did not want to press charges but want him to repent. Church elder Joseph Otwori said the suspect was allowed "free time to do soul searching and get saved or live with the consequences of his guilt". "He just told us he doesn't know what evil drove him here to the sanctuary steal, after the interrogation we decided to allow him to go to his house and do a reflection,"  Otwori told the Star. The church, which is said to be seated on land grabbed from the Child Welfare Society, has been attacked twice in the recent past. In the first incident, hired goons descended on the makeshift building and flattened it. They also vandalised other church equipment during the night raid. Otwori asked church members to pray for the church saying "the devil has directed his fangs on us". The attempted break-in comes a week after burglars broke into Ibara SDA in Nyamira county and stole wine and bread meant to celebrate Eucharist last Sabbath. The thieves also carted away chairs forcing the service to be held outside. A burglar also broke into the residence of Birongo SDA church pastor in Nyaribari Chache, Kisii, and stole his personal effects and some church equipment. No suspect has been taken into custody in both incidents. Police say the probe is still on. Separately, the body of a man was fished out of River Kuja at Nyabiosi in Boikanga, South Mugirango, by villagers. Jared Magero had disappeared a few days ago only to be found dead at the river bank. Villagers had been searching in sugar farms and mortuaries for him. Police are investigating if he was killed and his body dumped in the river or it was a case of drowning. The body was removed on Sunday morning to Kisii Teaching and Referral Hospital morgue. Edited by R.Wamochie