Deputy President William Ruto has defended the government’s move to close schools that are not registered. Ruto on Monday said the government is focused on making all schools in the country habitable for learners. He noted that the move to close unregistered schools and those whose infrastructure is in bad shape aims at ensuring that classrooms are conducive for learning. “Schools are powerful knowledge incubation centres. The skills acquired by learners are a bedrock for the transformation agenda of our country,” he said. Ruto was speaking in Kimilili, Bungoma county, where he laid the foundation stone for the construction of eight classrooms at Matili Friends Primary School and opened 16 new classrooms at Namakhele and Nasianda primary schools. This comes after the government last week issued orders for all uregistered schools to be closed. A circular signed by Principal Secretary Belio Kipsang said schools whose infrastructure has deteriorated would not be spared. Kipsang further said schools with teachers who are not registered by the Teacher Service Commission will also be closed. The came after it was established that Precious Talent Top School in Nairobi, where eight pupils died after section of classroom collapsed on them, had violated the rules. The school was licensed to enroll 340 learners but at the time of the tragedy, the school had enrolled 923 learners. Ruto in his remarks said the realisation of the Big Four and the Vision 2030 was a function of the skills gained in learning institutions. “Safety will boost enrollment and learners’ know-how besides promoting equity in our country,” he added. Ruto was accompanied by Speaker of the Senate Ken Lusaka, MPs Didmus Barasa (Kimilili), John Waluke (Sirisia), Dan Wanyama (Webuye West), Mwambu Mabonga (Bumula), Fred Kapondi (Mt Elgon) and former Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale. He said his tours around the country were meant to increase development, especially in marginalised areas. “We have transitioned our leadership fabric to one whose drive is development. We do not have space for past-date politics of tribalism and hate,” he told the people of Kimilili. Lusaka in his remarks lauded the new-found unity among leaders, observing that the move signals a new era in the country’s politics. “It is through our unity and togetherness that we can achieve our development plans as a country,” Lusaka said.