Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka is undecided on who to support for the Kibra by-election. The Wiper chief said they were consulting on who to support in the by-election because ANC and Ford Kenya have fielded strong candidates - the three parties are under NASA. ANC is fielding former PM's chief strategist Eliud Owalo as its candidate in Kibra. Ford Kenya will field Khamisi Butichi. The IEBC has scheduled the by-election for November 7. The Kibra constituency seat fell vacant after the death of MP Ken Okoth. "Consultations are still ongoing, and we have our supporters on the ground who will tell us the candidate we should support,” Kalonzo said. He spoke at the Wiper headquarters in Nairobi after meeting the National Executive Council. Kalonzo's remarks come after ANC and Ford Kenya supported Wiper's Julius Mawathe during the Embakasi South by-election held April this year. Mawathe won. The Embakasi South seat fell vacant after the Supreme Court nullified Mawathe's 2017 win. However, Mawathe garnered 21,628 votes against ODM Irshad Sumra's 7,988. This was after ANC and Ford Kenya failed to field candidates and endorsed Kalonzo's candidate Mawathe. Kalonzo on Tuesday introduced musician Jackson Makini, popularly known by his stage name Prezzo, saying he would vie in 2022. “NASA is a family, and we should have had consultations. We [Wiper] already have a candidate, but he will vie in 2022. Being a celebrity, we do not want his image tainted,” Kalonzo said. Sources at the party said that Prezzo wanted to contest in the by-elections on November 7 but Wiper had decided not to field a candidate because ANC and Ford Kenya supported them in the Embakasi South parliamentary seat. “Wiper party is now joined by a celebrity and its now called a celebrity party. However, we will not field our candidate now. We will ensure he has time to prepare for 2022,” Kalonzo said. Former Cabinet minister and Wiper NEC official Chirau Makwere said the party is well-prepared for 2022 polls, and they will field candidates in all seats. “I went to Kalonzo when I had heavy luggage, but he has helped me a lot and now I feel light. He is a good leader and mentor,” Prezzo said. Other candidates in the Kibra by-election are Elijah Abasa (Narc Kenya), Fridah Kerubo (independent) and Bernard Okoth (ODM).    