Rift Valley farmers want President Uhuru Kenyatta to make public the report by a task force formed last year to investigate the maize crisis in the country. The report, according to the farmers, is likely to provide solutions to price- and marketing-related problems as well as access to farm inputs and credit. The Uhuru-appointed task force was chaired by Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri. Members included Governors Patrick Khaemba of Trans Nzoia and Jackson Mandago of Uasin Gishu. Farmers were also represented. “We know the task force has important recommendations and we are also of the view that the President should make it public so that we can follow up on the recommendations,” a director of the Kenya Farmers Association, Kipkorir Menjo said. Mandago and Khaemba have also been pushing for the release of the report. Trans Nzoia Deputy Governor Stanley Tarus said the prices of maize and milk are depressed and called on the Ministry of Agriculture to follow up on the report so that the public knows its recommendations. “The report of the task force should be used to make changes in policies governing the agriculture sector because farmers have suffered immensely. It’s time to fix the sector as per the views given by farmers to the task force,” Tarus said. The task force report was handed to the government early this year. A Senate committee also probed the maize crisis and made its findings public. Tarus spoke at Elgon Down in Endebess during the annual Kenya Seed Company field day. He said the county government was committed to increasing the supply of subsidized farm inputs like fertilisers suitable for various soil types to boost production. He commended Kenya Seed for its research work to improve food production. Tarus decried the low and fluctuating prices of milk. He at the same time announced that the county government had installed 14 more milk coolers this financial year. Last week, Agriculture Chief Administrative Secretary Andrew Tuimur said the government would buy maize at a price to be decided soon. Currently, maize is selling at Sh2,800 per 90kg bag but farmers want the Cereals Board to buy their new harvest at not less than Sh3,500 per bag. Tuimur said maize production will be 32 million bags this year, a decrease of 11 million bags from last year's 43 million bags due to various challenges faced by farmers. Kenya seed managing director Azariah Soi said the company is investing more on seed research to produce more resilient crop varieties to cater to the changing weather patterns. He said the company will be releasing four new maize varieties next planting season. Agriculture administrative secretary Okello Warsama urged farmers to utilise modern technologies learned in exhibitions and field days to improve the quality and quantity of their produce. 