Foreign Affairs CS Monica Juma is set to chair an unusual meeting this morning. In an internal memo marked “very urgent” PS Macharia Kamau, who is reportedly not in good terms with Monica, announced the CS will meet all heads of political directorates. The CS made major changes to the directorates last week Foreign Affairs CS Monica Juma is set to chair an unusual meeting this morning. triggering disquiet over alleged favouritism. After meeting directors, Monica will head straight to a Kamkunji of all Foreign Affairs staff at KICC at 1pm. However, there are fears staff members could be intimidated. For months now, there have been complaints in the posting of career diplomats. Some are quickly sent on retirement, while many others, who have attained mandatory retirement age, are ageing disgracefully in missions abroad. Call it animal farm if you like. A top name at the centre of a corruption scandal involving billions of shillings has surprised his colleagues with his latest move. The man slightly out of the youthful bracket and married to more than one wife recently bought top-of-the-range fuel guzzlers, same make and colour to each of his wives' even at a time the case against him is gaining momentum by the day. The politician is said to have received millions in kickbacks and has even large swaths of land in his home county. Maybe it is time the EACC extended spotlight on the suspect’s close family members. The 2022 gubernatorial politics in a Western Kenya county seems to be taking a new dimension. A governor has reportedly fallen out with the leadership of his party over what insiders called "lack of respect" by the county chief. The party leadership is now reportedly working very closely with a fierce rival of the governor and is said to be eyeing the seat come the next poll. Corridors understand that the governor has been very uncomfortable with the developments fearing that the party leadership could be hatching a plot to ensure he is not reelected. A candidate in a looming by-election has made voters worried weeks to voting day with the manner he is conducting himself, especially his communication with the electorate. He is said to be one of the front-runners but has refused to give out his phone number and instead issues either his brother's or sister's. He insists all communication to him must be channelled through the two. In most instances, residents claim calls made to the numbers are answered rudely by his siblings. Voters are just wondering whether they will be able to access him if at all he emerges the winner.