Betway Kenya is excited to announce that another lucky customer has won big with the online sports betting brand. Mark Welanunu wagered just KSh 900 on a 30-leg Multi Bet and won a massive Sh.1,261,790.64/= Welanunu’s total potential return would have been Sh.9,562,299.92/=, however he decided to make use of Betway’s Cash Out feature and claim his winnings early. The Betway Cash Out feature allows you to take an early pay out on your bets before they have resulted. Essentially, customers can claim their winnings early or get a portion of their stake back depending on how their selection is doing at the time. The amount offered will reflect in the My Bets tab and will be based on the actual odds at the time of choosing to Cash Out. One of Welanunu’s selections was that more than 2.5 goals would be scored in the Benfica v Gil. Vicente match. Had he waited for the match to finish, Mark would have lost his entire bet as the match ended 2-0. “I am very excited after winning. I would never have imagined that this would have been my luck but I’m happy all the same. I will decide on how best to use this money but I’m keen on putting it into activities that will improve my life as well as that of my family,” said Welanunu upon receiving news of his win. Betway Kenya recently announced restoration of its services following clearance by the Kenya Revenue Authority and subsequent issuance of an operating license by the Betting Control and Licensing Board. Upon going live, Betway Kenya launched new and exciting features to continue its promise to provide customers with a unique gaming experience. Some of these features include Win Boost, which offers extra winnings on Multi Bets; Money Back Boost whereby punters still get something back if their Multi Bet betslip loses by one selection; Cash Out which gives customers more control of their bets; and 4 To Score, a FREE-to-play prediction game with great cash prizes. Betway is also constantly improving its offerings and will soon be launching new casino features and revamped Jackpots. Other features include betgames, Lucky Numbers, Virtual Sports and so much more. As one of the most popular sports betting brands in the country, Betway Kenya has rewarded many of its registered customers with great giveaways through its various promotions and casino products. “I would like to congratulate Mark on his win and encourage the rest of our players to continue betting with us. As a brand we endeavour to give our customers the best gaming experience through our various platforms as we encourage responsible betting,” said Betway country manager Leon Kiptum.