Although a building in which a woman and her daughter were murdered in Nairobi did not have CCTV, police will rely on cameras in the estate to get leads on their killers. A police source privy to the investigations yesterday told the Star that detectives probing the murders will rely on the cameras on buildings in the estate and along the road leading to the scene of crime. They are looking to trace a black Toyota Prado which reportedly dropped off the women at around 2am on Sunday before their lifeless bodies were discovered. “We believe that the cameras will help us get the car’s registration number, its owner and occupants when it dropped off the women,” he said. The source also told the Star that the police will also rely on data from the mobile phones belonging to the dead woman and her daughter to unravel their murders. Judith Wanjiku, a retired Treasury employee and her daughter Catherine Nyaguthie (47) were found murdered in their four-bedroom house at Golden Gate estate in South B on Monday. According to a police report, the two were found strangled in their separate bedrooms. “Judith was found lying on bed  facing down with a sisal rope around her neck with blood oozing from her mouth,” the report read. Catherine, a former Cooperative Bank employee, was found lying on the floor of her bedroom with injury marks around her neck. Police are trying to piece together information on the duo’s movements on the fateful night so as to get to those who killed them. Makadara subcounty DCIO Henry Kiambati said the granny’s husband has been sickling for the last 10years. It is suspected that the two might have come from a city hospital where the man is admitted. A source revealed to the Star that the police had written to communication service providers requesting for phone data of the two women so as to find out who they communicated with last before they were murdered. Kiambati said it was an isolated case in the subcounty. “We are trying to piece the information together so that we can get those who committed the incident,” Kiambati said. He addressed the press at the crime scene on Tuesday. Police spent a better part of the day dusting the entire house as they quizzed several people on the murders.  