The scene could be mistaken for a political rally. Young men carrying clubs and twigs, dancing to the infectious beat of the Isukuti and chanting. It may well be a traditional Luhya circumcision ceremony. Motorists and cyclists stop pull over to the side of the road to give way to the crowds escorting their beloved bulls to bouts. The fights usually take place on Saturday. Bullfighting is a popular sport and cultural practice among communities in Kakamega, specifically in Ikolomani, Shinyalu and Lurambi constituencies. Across the world, it is practised in Japan and Spain. Attempts to ban it in Spain have failed. In Kakamega, the bulls are named after political parties, prominent football players in the Premier League and other well-known names. “Like soccer competitions, we have champion bulls that participate in what is equivalent to the Champions League,” said Bonventre Munanga, the secretary of the Kakamega Muungano Bullfighting Self-help Group. NASA from Eregi in Ikolomani has been the reigning champion since 2016, when he dethroned Messi. Messi had taken over from Maspana, who had reigned for three years since 2013. Maspana and Kwayumba had earlier beat each other in alternate matches in two years. As with football, senior bulls feature in cross-cluster encounters while upcoming bulls fight in their clusters before gaining experience and fame to venture out. NASA has won 11 out of the 12 matches he has featured in. He beat Messi, Kwayumba, Maspana, Balotelli, Malinya, Nasokisi and upcoming Imbilikinzi among others in the past year. “I bought the bull for Sh270,000 last year due to his good record on the pitch and the following he enjoys in Ikolomani and Shinyalu, where he came from. His matches attract between 4,000 and 5,000 fans,” said owner Victor Alufwani. Upcoming bulls such as Shiribiti, Saa Mbaya, Costa, Imbirikinzi, Nyoka, Ng’ara and Nyumba Kumi are being prepared to take on NASA for the crown later in the year. “We are considering which bull between Shiribiti, Costa and Saa Mbaya should take on NASA,” said group chairman Hudson Amalemba. Shiribiti locked horns with Imbilikinzi last Saturday and the latter carried the day. The beasts weigh between 600 and 800kg. “We shall be booking a return match because the owner of Imbilikinzi declined to use the right field and chose rough ground where cane was uprooted recently,” said Dennis Muhanda, the owner of Shiribiti. Bulls that are past their fighting age are retired (sold to butchers). Terms such as slaughter or sold are not allowed here. Fixtures for the fights are made following requests from bull owners. Bulls from Khayega fight at Khayega grounds in what would be equated to super league fixtures while those in Ikolomani square it out at Malinya Stadium. Bulls in Shinyalu fight at Solyo grounds while those in Lurambi fight in the showgrounds. Usually, a bull owner writes to another bull owner to request for a bout. Amalemba says the one making the request pays for the encounter. The fee ranges between Sh8,000 and Sh12,000. “When you request and the other party is afraid of his beast facing yours they demand more money so that you give up,” he says. Muhanda says he requested for a fight between NASA and Shiribiti but the owner demanded Sh15,000. He had offered Sh10,000. Munanga says in the past there was no monetary element in bullfighting. “People used to prepare for the bouts and after that, they prepared food and ate together before parting ways. The bouts were a way of creating space for people from different parts to meet as they weren't many people around,” he says. PREPARATION WEEK A week before the fight preparations for the match begin. The bulls are exposed to noise by three or four fans to psyche them up. Women are not allowed near the bulls during this period. “They blow vuvuzelas, whistles and play Isukuti and sing war songs, and you will see the bull respond by groaning as though it has smelt blood,” Munanga says. Munanga says the bulls are fed herbs or ground lion skin to make them fierce. Their horns are also sharpened. And no, the bulls are not fed bhang before a fight, as is widely believed. “If you give a bull bhang it fears others. Sometimes they are fed on busaa dregs, known as Litseshe, as just food,” Amalemba says. The bull owner is not to have sex or even take a bath during the preparation week. “If you have sex or take a bath, your bull will flee from the opponent and you will be declared a loser,” he says. Women are not allowed in front of the bulls. If they have to accompany those escorting the bulls they must walk behind them. PRESTIGE AND RITUALS Those who breed fighting bulls do so for prestige. “You cannot say that bull rearing and fighting is a business because you cannot recoup what you invest in it through fighting,” Muhanda says. A bull's upkeep costs between Sh500 and Sh1,000 per day yet it may fight four or five times in a year and each bout brings the owner less than Sh20,000. Muhanda says once a bull has a following, it belongs to the society and the fans cannot allow you to sell it. “I was offered Sh250,000 for Shiribiti but fans did not allow me to sell it,” he says. Bull owner Jomo Machisu says they bear the cost of damages caused during the fights. “Even if your bull is killed or fractured you cannot claim compensation because you drove it from home knowing it was going to fight and in a war, you don’t demand compensation for your slain soldiers,” he says. The bulls are also used during rituals particularly in the event of the death of a prominent personality or those who fought in the world wars. The bulls normally fight at the graveside of a prominent person in a ceremony known as Sere Butswa, while a ceremony known as Siyo is performed at the graveside of a world war veteran. Amalemba says the bulls help to bring people together, and that breeding fighting bulls often tends to run in the family.  WE CAN MAKE SPORT PROFITABLE, JUST LIKE SPAIN – KHALWALE In 2005 the then Ikolomani MP Boni Khalwale (locally nicknamed bullfighter), and bull owners visited Madrid, Spain, to learn how to turn bullfighting into a money-making venture and fight poverty. They stayed in Spain for a week and visited farms. They even entered into a partnership with the bullfighters’ association of Madrid. “We were able to tour bull fighting farms and also went to the bullfighting rings and actually learnt how they have turned bullfighting into a money-minting machine," Khalwale said. "I want to owe all these to Kibaki, who quickly saw bullfighting as a player in Vision 2030, two years after taking office. “The objective was that we come back and replicate the same template in Kakamega and the first step was to put up a stadium." The Ministry of Culture and Sports, then headed by Najib Balala, provided Sh3.5 million for the construction of Malinya Stadium through the Tourist Trust Fund. Khalwale says that the Kenyan bull owners entered into a deal to breed bulls for the Madrid association and export them for a fee. “When they breed the young bulls in winter so many of them die. We had gone into an agreement with them to ship semen to us in Kenya so that we breed the bulls and export them when they turn into bullocks and sell to them at a profit,” he says. Under the agreement, the association would support the Kenyan bull owners with their feeding as the bulls mature fast. Khalwale says he bought land and started construction of Malinya Stadium solely for bullfighting using the money but the European Union, which supported the tourism trust fund, stopped the funding and the project stalled. “My effort to push for the project were frustrated when I became senator and lost control of CDF. We can do it. It works in Spain though in Spain it ends with the killing of the bull while we preserve ours and it is easier to perpetuate them,” he adds. Khalwale says he has a blueprint for turning around domestic tourism in Kakamega. Bull owners say the county government has not seen the logic in turning the sport into a viable income-generating venture and only invites them during events. Kakamega Youths, Sports and Culture executive Robert Makhanu says the county government is in the process of partnering with the national government to develop facilities to promote the sport. “We support farmers with bulls by ensuring that they are given cash when there are events where their bulls are taking part. We are in the process of improving the Khayega grounds, where bullfighting takes place, to required standards to improve the sport and it into a tourist attraction to bolster the Western tourism circuit.” Bullfighting will be strictly regulated if the draft Animal Welfare Bill becomes law. The Bill makes it mandatory for a bull owner to produce proof that the animal is trained before it is allowed to take part in a match. “Any person who promotes, or takes part in any public performance which includes; throwing or casting, with ropes or other appliances, of any untrained animal, riding, or wrestling, fighting any unbroken or untrained animal commits an offence,” Article 30 reads. A person convicted of this offence will pay Sh100,000 fine or a serve one year in jail in default or both. The Bill is yet to be presented to the Cabinet for approval. If adopted, this law will ensure that only bulls that have been trained and their health and physical state demonstrates they can withstand the pressure of fighting are allowed to take part in a bout.