Health workers in Kisumu on Friday ended their strike after reaching a deal with the county government. The more than 7,000 employees had stayed away from work for more than three weeks. They resumed duty after holding successful talks with county officials. Residents of Kisumu can now sigh with relief after much agony and pain owing to lack of medical services. In the agreement, the county government will settle all pending salaries for July, August and September by October 4. Members of the Kenya Medical, Pharmacists and Dentists Union, the Kenya National Union of Nurses, and the Kenya Union of Clinical Officers, among other unions, began their strike on September 10. They protested pay delay, unremitted loan and statutory deductions and stalled promotions. On Thursday evening, the county government said an agreement had been reached for health workers to be paid their salaries no later that 5th of the proceeding month. The agreement was signed by county secretary Godfrey Kigochi, chief officer health Dickens Onyango and union officials. “The employer shall also settle all pending statutory deductions by October 4 and the pending loans reemission to respective financial institutions.  At the same time, they will engage with the respective banks to reverse all penalties charged to staff due to delay in remittance of loan deduction,” read the agreement. On promotion, the county government said the County Public Service Board shall effectively from October 1 review individual files of names forwarded for promotion and issue letters in batches. However, it was agreed that the whole process will be concluded not later than December 31. Health workers agreed that the county will hold quarterly consultative meetings with union officials to revive implementation of the agendas to avoid future industrial disputes. Their were fears among stakeholders that if the strike continued, it could paralyse  an anti-malarial vaccination programme for children. Cervical cancer vaccines for girls aged 10 is expected to begin next month.