A radical court ruling that has dealt governors staggering blows could today claim the scalps of an MP and a speaker of a county assembly. Bobasi MP Innocent Obiri and Kisumu speaker Onyango Oloo could be the latest casualties of the ruling that compels all state officers facing prosecution to step aside. Already, Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu and his Samburu counterpart Moses Lenolkulal have been barred from office, following the ruling. Obiri and Oloo are among 33 individuals set to be charged today with graft in the construction of the Sh4.1 billion Lake Basin Development Authority Mall in Kisumu. On Sunday, the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission told the Star the two must be barred from accessing their offices in compliance with the ruling. “Absolutely, we will insist that they step aside,” EACC Spokesman Yassin Amaro told the Star. Article 260 of the Constitution list MPs, MCA’s and executive committee members of county government as state officers. Obiri’s firm, Quantech Consultancy was procured as the project’s quantity surveyor in the project riddled with sleaze. On July 24, Justice Mumbi Ngugi in a landmark decision ruled that all state officers once charged with graft should step aside. Ngugi said Section 62(6) of the Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Act which state officers have been using to hang onto office as illegal. She said the section entrenches corruption and impunity in the land. “What message does it send to the citizens if their leaders are charged with serious corruption offences, and are in office the following day, overseeing the affairs of the institution?” she posed. However, some lawyers have argued that the decision is not binding as it was just the judge's expression of opinion, known in legal parlance as orbiter dictum. On Friday, the Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji said detectives have established that Erdemann Properties Ltd, the firm that constructed the Kisumu mall bribed Oloo to the tune of Sh17 million. Another board member, George Odwa, the DPP claimed, received kickbacks of Sh12 million. When the Star first broke the story of the bribery network in the mall scandal Erderman — whose two directors  Zhang Jing and JohnYang were also arrested — sent us a demand letter threatening to sue for defamation. Today, they will be charged with among others, conspiracy to defraud, abuse of office, unlawful acquisition of public property and corruptly giving a benefit. (edited by O. Owino)