KCB assistant coach Godfrey Oduor has cited the experience gained by his boss Zedekiah “Zico” Otieno in Germany as the best ingredient to end their 21-year long wait to their first Kenyan Premier League title. Zico, who was named the new head coach has been in Germany for the past three weeks for a coaching course and is expected to jet back on Friday ahead of their second 2019-2020 league match against debutants Kisumu All-Stars. Since making their debut in the top flight in 1998, the bankers have never laid hands on the title despite their financial muscle, a wait the new technical bench said will come to an end this season courtesy of their preparations and the quality signings made in the pre-season. During their unveiling last month, the coaching staff which brought in nine new players pledged to rise above the top three finish set by the management as their guns were trained on the title. Zico, who also doubles up as the Harambee Stars assistant coach, was mandated to man the Ruaraka-based club after parting ways with the duo of Frank Ouna and Sammy ‘Pamzo’ Omollo who served as the head and assistant coaches respectively last season. Oduor, a former Kibera Black Stars player and coach, has warned their fellow title contenders to brace up for a ruthless KCB as the knowledge gained by Zico will play a massive role in ending Gor Mahia’s dominance in toasting the crown. Gor have won the title uninterrupted in the past four seasons. “Our head coach has been undergoing training in the last weeks which I believe will play a key role in our quest to achieve our objective of the season. Gaining extra and exclusive knowledge will help weed out some mistakes and polish the boys to compete with the best teams.” Prior to joining the bankers, Oduor tutored Nzoia Sugar for one and half months and served as an assistant coach to the national U-17 team. In Zico’s absence, he said he has been aiding prepare the playing unit for their opener against Sony Sugar. The club thumped the sugar millers 3-0 at Awendo Green Stadium in the opening fixture.