Kariobangi Sharks will do without the services of Sydney Lokale from December after the striker landed a six-month loan deal to Finish side HIFK Fotboll AB. Lokale, who is currently in Uganda with the national U-20 Rising Stars in the Cecafa Championships, impressed the Finish club agents during their pre-season friendly matches at Camp Toyoyo and it's now a matter of time before he kicks off his professional stint. The 19-year-old who has a goal against his name with the national U-23 Emerging Stars could seal a four-year permanent move with the Finnish side should he fit the bill in his loan spell. Additionally, the former Nakuru All-Stars player has a clause which could see him extend his loan stint to December 2020 where his fate will be decided. “Lokale will be leaving for Finland in December for a six-month loan deal which will end on July 15 next year. "The club has been monitoring our matches through our social media pages and made contacts. "Their scouts came to see him during our pre-season friendly matches at Toyoyo and expressed satisfaction with his physique and style of play. "They have an option of extending his loan deal to December 2020 and later buy him on a four-year-long contract which shall elapse on July 2024,” said club chairman Robert Maoga. Born in Lodwar but raised in Nakuru, Lokale was spotted by the defunct All-Stars while at Flamingo Secondary School and would join Sharks in December 2017. He made his debut with Rising Stars during  the Africa U-20 Cup of Nations qualifier match against Rwanda in April last year and upgraded to the U-23 in an Olympic qualifier against Mauritius in November. His goal-scoring prowess landed him a starting berth in the Harambee Stars team during a 2020 Chan qualifier duel against Tanzania in August this year. In May, the towering forward left for unsuccessful trials with Swedish side Malmo. His absence, however, is not a blow to the club as the 2018 top scorer Erick Kapaito and Julius Masaba have been tipped to shoulder the scoring roles. “He was unsuccessful in Sweden because we rushed him and the agent we had by that time was not reliable. We view his looming exit as a motivation to the rest. We have Kapaito and Masaba to count on for goals and other two strikers from our youth development sides,” Maoga continued. Football AB is based in Helsinki and play their matches at the Telia 5G Areena.