More Kenyans consider themselves optimists compared to citizens of other major African economies, a new survey has found. The Global Optimism Outlook Survey found that 70 per cent of Kenyans view themselves as optimists, above the global average of 56 per cent, and the continental average of 64 per cent. The survey  tracked people’s priorities for the future, looking at sustainability, economic growth, technology, travel, and more. More than 20,000 people across 23 countries were surveyed, broken down by geographic region, gender, employment, marital status, and income. "Despite the breadth of diversity, it appears the majority of the world is closely aligned when it comes to the key issues facing the planet’s future,"reads the report. Kenyans' optimism about the future has been linked to new opportunities being created by a thriving digital technology landscape, decentralised system of government, and a continued uplift in socio-ecoomic conditions across the country. According to the survey, Kenyans were found to consider natural resource conservation, alternative energy and zero waste as most important in creating a better future, while ranking technological developments such as ride-sharing and electric vehicles least. 85 per cent of Kenyan respondents believe that knowledge gathering, learning and access to education is the best avenue towards unlocking opportunity in the year 2050. Other important tactics identified are access to resources (82 per cent) and collaboration across borders and cultures (81 per cent). Some 97 per cent of respondents  equally believe that technological advances will continue to connect people globally, as well as they believe individuals and communities will shape the future through knowledge sharing. Looking toward the future with a sustainability lens, the survey found that Kenyans believe that conservation of natural resources, alternative energy and zero waste are most important at creating a better world. " 70 per cent of Kenyans are considerably optimistic about mankind’s ability to combat climate change." In the next three decades, Kenyans would most like to experience free trade (82 per cent), self-powering and energy producing transportation (72 per cent), carbon free travel (68 per cent), e-commerce (66 per cent), and cloud computing, big data and Artificial Intelligence (AI) (66 per cent). From a sustainability point of view, they would most like to experience smart cities (73 per cent), sustainable architecture and infrastructure (71 per cent), and sustainable food (70 per cent). UAE Minister of State for International Cooperation and Director General of Expo 2020 Dubai Reem Al Hashimy, said “In just over a year, Dubai and the UAE will be bringing the world together for the World Expo, in a spirit of collaboration, and creating an open global dialogue that allows us to look towards the future with renewed optimism.The results show that we are more connected than we may believe."