Kenya Simbas have climbed two places up—from position 34 to 32 in the latest World Rugby rankings. Simbas rise comes after they beat Zimbabwe 36-14 in the final Victoria Cup match played over the weekend in Nakuru. The visitors had already bagged the tournament after beating Zambia 41-5 last weekend in Harare. The Sables edged Kenya by a point, finishing top of the log with 22 points—one ahead of Kenya. Uganda finished third with 15 points while  Zambia trailed with no point. Zimbabwe dropped to 34th position with Tunisia 40th. Uganda occupies 41st with other African countries following in the order—Ivory Coast (44), Morocco (48), Madagascar (52) and Zambia (66). South Africa are the highest-ranked team on the continent in fifth with Namibia ranked 23. World champions New Zealand returned to the summit of the rankings after their spectacular win over South Africa at the World Cup over in Japan over the weekend.  Ireland dropped to second with England third, Wales fourth and South Africa fifth.  Australia, France, Scotland, Japan, and Fiji complete the top 10. Kenya Simbas next assignment is the Africa Cup next year. Elsewhere, Enterprise Cup champions Kabras will play two build-ups matches ahead of Kenya Cup on October 26. The sugar-millers have intensified their pre-season preps, according to coach Henley Du Plessis The South African tactician said they are planning a training camp this week to solidify preparations. “We have a training camp this week as we intensify our preps and ensure the boys are fit and firing from all fronts before our first friendly of the season," added Du Plessis He said the new signings Fijian Timoci Sinaite and South African Ntabeni Dukisa have settled in their roles alongside the rest of the squad. "The two signings have adjusted well to the new environment. They played a couple of the Sevens tournaments to get a feel of Kenyan rugby and I'm happy with their progress so far and I know they will make an impact in the league when we start," he added. 