Team Embrace on Saturday tore into Deputy President William Ruto, saying he is behind the Punguza Mizigo Bill meant to demean women. Led by governors Charity Ngilu (Kitui) and Anne Waiguru (Kirinyaga), the women leaders said those behind the Bill want the number of women leaders reduced because they are male chauvinists. However, Nyali MP Mohammed Ali, who is a close ally of Ruto, accused Embrace Team of using women to further their own selfish political interests. He defended his association with Ruto, saying it was beneficial to Nyali residents. Because of the association, women and youth in Nyali have got funds to start up business ventures, he said. Ali said Embrace is made up of selfish leaders out to take advantage of disadvantaged women to build their own political careers. At the Tononoka grounds rally, Ngilu said those behind the Punguza Mizigo Bill sponsored by Thirdway Alliance party leader Ekuru Aukot are hypocritical. The Kitui governor said in 2010 when Kenya inaugurated the new Constitution, it was agreed that some aspects of it would be amended later. “That same person opposed it, saying it was bad. Now he is the loudest mouth saying the Constitution is okay, that we should not amend it. What has happened today that you, who said the Constitution is not good, now you are saying it is good?” Ngilu said. The governor said those are the characteristics of people who want to take Kenya backwards and want to see bloodshed. “They want to see bloodshed. But we as women of Kenya say no blood will be shed anymore. We re preaching peace” Ngilu said. At Maweni mixed secondary school, Ali who was holding a parallel function  said there is no war in Kenya but the Embrace Team wanted to make it look like Kenya was burning. “Today, people are going around the country claiming to be preaching peace. Do we have war in Kenya?” Ali said. “You should not be given ‘deras’ and be made to shake your waists for men in public. Our women cannot be treated like slaves,” he said. Ali said women should be empowered by being funded to start businesses. He issued a cheque worth Sh1.4 million for several women's groups to start up or boost their businesses. At Tononoka, Embrace Team issued cheques worth Sh21.6 million to various women's groups. The leaders toured Lady Grig maternity at Coast General Hospital where they talked to pregnant and new mothers. Waiguru said the time had come for the Executive to be expanded to include three more seats including the Prime Minister and two deputies. She said the expanded Executive would incude people from other communities and not the two dominant communities that have been at the helm of Kenya’s presidency since independence. “We want Western, Coast, Rift Valley, Central, Eastern and North Eastern regions represented. That is why we are asking for three more seats, the Prime Minister and his two deputies,” Waiguru said. However, Ali said the push for a referendum is to create a job for certain individuals which will increase burden on the taxpayer. “We do not need taxpayers to pay for more leaders from their sweat,” Ali said. But Waiguriu said the tax burden does not lie in the Executive but in corruption, which he said the handshake team is fighting. She said some people do not want the war on corruption and only they know why. Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho, who became the first male governor to attend an Embrace function, was made an honorary member. He said Embrace Team is preaching peace across the country but there are other people who are against it. “There is a lot of negative energy but we will soldier on in preaching peace across the country. We cannot forget where we were in 2007-2008,” Joho said. Wajir Woman Representative Fatuma Gedi said those behind the Punguza Mizigo bill are going around Kenya saying they will be president in 2022. “We all know who is funding the Punguza Mizigo bill. They will not be president,” Gedi said.