The Council of Governors on Thursday announced that it has adopted the Ugatuzi Initiative. The council on Thursday said it supports a national Executive comprising the President as Head of State, Deputy President, Prime Minister as Head of Government and two Deputy Prime Ministers. The governors want the Council of County Governors to be entrenched in the Constitution. The initiative proposes the appointment of Ministers, Deputy Ministers and Principal Secretaries must meet the two-thirds gender rule and representation of the special interest groups. The initiative wants Cabinet to consist of not more than 18 Ministers and 22 Deputies from among MPs. It further proposes that five per cent of 45 per cent of what Counties receive shall be reserved for the special interest groups (youth, women, PWDs and other marginalised/vulnerable groups) as computed by Commission for Revenue Allocation. It wants the establishment of the office of the Deputy Speaker of the County Assembly included in the Constitution Further, all Bills shall originate from the National Assembly or Senate. The Senate shall consider all bills including money bills. The initiative provides for the filling of a vacancy in the Office of Deputy Governor by the Governor with the approval of the County Assembly. It also wants to provide grounds and procedure for removal of a Deputy Governor. Leader of the Party/coalition of Parties with the second largest number of seats in National Assembly shall be the official leader of the opposition. He/She shall have a Deputy leader of opposition. The Leader of the opposition shall appoint a shadow cabinet. The President shall not assent to any Bill unless passed by the Senate, Senate shall approve appointments to all constitutional offices. It wants Senate to be involved in approval of International Treaties. It further proposes that terms and conditions applicable to Members of Parliament shall apply to Members of County Assemblies with necessary modifications. It wants Office of the Attorney General to be independent and have security of tenure. It proposes that counties to have their own County Attorney and Law Office and that each County to have its own County Gazette. "The main focus of the Ugatuzi Initiative is to ensure Counties get more resources and give Counties more financial autonomy," the statement read. "Each county must be represented in the Government to have either a cabinet Minister, Deputy Minister or a Principal Secretary." For every Financial Year,  the equitable share of the revenue raised nationally for County Governments shall not be less than 45 per cent of the previous year’s revenue collected by the National Government and  calculated on the basis of declared exchequer accounts. It further proposes that each county to provide a minimum of 1.5 per cent of its development budget to the economic blocs and 0.5 per cent to the Council of Governors. The initiative wants County Governments to be represented in the National Security Council. The County Policing Authority be established in the Constitution. Each County Government shall establish its own County Police Service. Participating in elections shall be compulsory for every Kenyan over 18 years of age as a national and patriotic duty. The national identity card shall be the only document required for purposes of voting. It further proposes that the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission to be devolved into 47 Counties. Elections for MCAs, Governors, Senators, and members of National Assembly shall be conducted and concluded at the County level. But this initiative has not gone down well with a section of the public. Punguza Mizigo initiative sponsor Ekuru Aukot said that it's nothing but an appendage of yet to be known  BBI and a poor attempt to fight Punguza Mizigo Bill. "Some proposals are not new at all. They're already in the CoK 2010. Never mind the copying of Punguza Mizigo Bill 2019," Aukot tweeted.