The search for a new auditor general to succeed Edward Ouko has started following the appointment of a seven-member panel to steer the process. President Uhuru Kenyatta on Monday named former Deloitte chief executive Sammy Onyango as the chair of the panel. Bernard Ndung'u will represent the National Treasury while Solicitor General Kennedy Ogeto will stand in for the Attorney General. The Public Service will be represented by commissioner Titus Ndambuki. The accountants’ professional body ICPAK will be represented by Rose Mwaura. Loise Ruhiu was picked to represent the Association of Professional Societies of East Africa and Masinde Joy Brenda the Law Society of Kenya. The team is expected to sieve through applications received before the September 9 deadline. Three names will be forwarded to the President. Only one name will be selected for submission to Parliament for approval. If Parliament rejects the nominee, it shall within three days communicate the decision to the President who will then nominate one of the remaining two candidates. The appointment will end weeks of uncertainty at the Office of the Auditor-General as the post was to be filled before Ouko left. The National Assembly took the blame for not creating a safeguard on what happens in case of a vacancy at the office of AG. No audit – especially special audits – can be commissioned by the OAG as the law demands that only a substantive auditor can sign the reports arising from the same. In as much as other operations continued, most auditors had taken a back seat on their daily runs. “The vacancy in that office should have been advertised six months before the exit of the Auditor General,” leader of Majority Aden Duale said. Delays in the appointment of a substantive auditor are bound to affect two key oversight committees of Parliament; the Public Accounts Committee and the Public Investments Committee. PAC chairman Opiyo Wandayi warned that no report should, in an ideal situation, be tabled in the absence of a substantive AG. “It must be understood by this House that no report can be tabled from that office if the substantive holder of the office is not there,” the Ugunja MP said. His PIC counterpart Abdulswamad Nassir decried the possibility of the delays creating a backlog in the committee’s reviews. “We are hoping that this process will be handled with the speed and urgency it needs,” Abdulswamad told the Star on Monday. Before he officially left his post on August 26, having served a single eight-year term, Ouko vouched for the amendment to the Public Audit Act to deal with the void in the crucial oversight office. Edited by R.Wamochie