Kakamega wards will receive development funds proportional to the tax they remit, Governor Wycliffe Oparanya has said. “The wards that pay more will get more from the government, including employment opportunities, social amenities and cleanliness in public places,” he said. Oparanya spoke on Tuesday when he opened a two-day workshop for MCAs and the executive at a Kisumu hotel. The meeting was called to discuss the County Annual Development Plan deliberated on revenue collection as well as budgeting, project planning and implementation. The meeting comes against the backdrop of the troubled county assembly leadership, where MCAs last week sent speaker Morris Buluma on a three-month leave over absenteeism. Oparanya, however, intervened to save Buluma by holding meetings with MCAs. Those who attended the meeting said Oparanya prefers the removal of the entire assembly leadership, not just the speaker. The county chief said the county’s revenue collections have experienced exponential growth in the last month, following the recent shake-up of the county’s revenue unit in which all the personnel were sent on a 60-day compulsory leave. Its functions are being performed by Community Area Administrators and the newly recruited revenue clerks under the supervision of CEC members, chief officers and subcounty administrators. Oparanya said revenue from markets, hospitals, single business permits, parking and stock rings has gone up by an average of 100 per cent and 200 per cent. The governor, however, said that the county government strives to offer quality services to motivate residents and the business community to pay license fees and other charges. “We cannot expect to get optimal revenue from filthy markets that have no toilets and regular garbage collection,” he said. Oparanya said the county is ready to put up modern toilets with running water in key markets and ensure a clean environment. “We are ready to recruit an additional 1,000 staff to boost capacity in the maintenance of public facilities,” he added. He said one of the projects his administration is focusing on is the completion of the Sh100 million ultra-modern Kakamega funeral parlour. “The facility will be fully computerised to improve services,” he said.  