Kenya Revenue Authority on Friday arraigned three Mombasa based auditors and   Directors of a transport and a construction company in a Mombasa  Court for aiding tax evasion. The auditors, Wilson  Owera, Rolland  Chiriswa and David Wesonga of Ogot and Associates firm  were charged for knowingly making an incorrect statement to the commissioner of domestic taxes for Gaab transporters. According to the charge sheets dated September 27, Ogot and Associates firm on diverse dates between March 28 2016 and July 20 2016 made incorrect returns reducing VAT liability for the months by sh 1,593,908. "The Ogot and associate firm is tax agent for Gaab transporters limited .Returns for the months of Feb,march,April,may and June 2016 by claiming vat relief in respect of invoices which you knew or ought to know is fraudulent hereby reducing vat liability for the months by sh 1,593,908,"Reads the charge sheet. Gaab Transporters and Samumu Construction Directors, Mohamed Moalin and Ali Osman were arraigned for jointly reducing the companies vat liability for the month by sh 638,505 for the month of Feb 2016. "Mohammed Moalin ,Ali Osman ,Gaab Transporters ,Wilson,David Rolland  on about 18th march 2016 being the Directors of a limited company jointly claimed vat relief in respect invoice nos 89343 and 28944 which you knew or ought to know is fraudulent hence reducing the companies vat liability for the month by sh 638505." All the accused denied the charges and were released on a bond of Ksh200,000 each with hearing set for October 17  2019. The taxman has on several occassions  insisted it will not relent in its fight against tax evasion by companies in the country. KRA in a statement on  August 22 said it is charged with the responsibility of collecting revenue on behalf of the Government of Kenya. The taxman said revenue is critical in funding service delivery to the citizens of Kenya and in achieving the country's transformation agenda. According to KRA, revenue collection has grown from Sh201 billion in 2002/03 to Sh1.58 trillion in 2018/19 representing a growth of over 68 per cent. KRA said this has enabled the country to continue providing the much-needed services to the Kenyan people. "This tremendous growth demonstrates that this country will significantly reduce reliance on debt if all persons required to pay taxes pay their rightful share of taxes," KRA said. The authority called upon those who have not been complying with the law and therefore not paying their rightful share of taxes to come forward and do so. KRA boss James  Mburu on Monday said that the taxman will recover the tax evaded money  through prosecutions and other administrative actions. "The war goes on. It is not personal, political or economic sabotage. We must recover a whopping Sh250 billion lost through tax evasion in the past two years only," he said. He attributed the multiple tax evasion arrests to the advanced systems used at the KRA. "KRA like any other agency has evolved from being manual. About four years ago people were paying manual returns. The officials then were tasked to review all files, gather information from financial firms to find out who is evading tax," he said.