There were no surprises as Athletics unveiled a team of 47 athletes to represent Kenya at the 2019 World Championships set for September 27  to  October 6 in Doha, Qatar. However, the 5,000m team was still in doubt considering the pair of Michael Kibet and Daniel Simiyu who took the top two slots at the trials were yet to be cleared to compete by IAAF's Athletics Integrity Unit. According to officials, AK will be waiting for the certification of the two in the next three days after trials before making the final decision. If they are not cleared to compete, AK executive member Barnabas Korir,  said their positions will be filled up by other athletes who have qualified for Doha. Only Nicholas Kimeli has been listed for 5,000m. “Kenya has got so many athletes and sometimes it is very difficult to follow them all. We always have surprise talents from High Schools so there is no cause for alarm. The AIU is aware of the two lads and if in the next three days they are cleared, then the two will join the camp. If not, we still have a backup. We have qualified athletes who have met the AIU conditions,” noted Korir. In the men's 1,500, things went as planned as the young George Manangoi joined his elder brother Elija and Timothy Cheruiyot who had wildcards. Ronald Kwemoi also made the team after placing second in 3:36.61. Cheruiyot won the race in 3:34.91 with George third in 3:37.00. Leonard Bett, Benjamin Kigen and Abraham Kibiwott made the 3,000m steeplechase team and will be joined by World and Olympic champion Conseslus Kipruto who had a wildcard.  The event, which has been Kenya's speciality, has in the recent times become very tricky but Kipruto has assured Kenyans a clean sweep. “We have a strong team and steeplechase is a Kenyan's speciality. Those who think they will; shake us off should watch this space. My goal is to retain my title and I believe as a team, we can stage a sweep,” intimated Kipruto, who also confirmed that he is in good shape to run. Kipruto pulled out of the race during the All Africa Games due to a hip injury. As expected Beatrice Chepkoech, Hyvine Kiyeng, Celphine Chespol and Fancy Cherono made the women's steeplechase squad. However, the women's 1500m saw Faith Chengetich and Winnie Chebet make the cut. In the women's 800m, former 800m champion Eunice Sum will team up with World Under-18 champion Jackline Wambui with Ferguson Rotich Emmanuel Korir and Kipngetich Ng'eno will fly Kenya's flag in the men's cadre.   Samuel Gathimba (men ) and Grace Wanjiru (women) will be the only participants in the 20km walk. Alphas Kishoyian and Emmanuel Korir made the cut for the 400m. Kishoyian was on course to post Olympic Games qualifying time but slowed down towards the end after discovering there was no threat. He, however, revealed that he will try to qualify for the T0kyo 2020 in Doha later this month. He said: “Attaining the Olympic time now (yesterday) would make me relax. I ran easy so that I can tackle that challenge ahead (in Doha). I will work hard to get to the finals in Doha and elucidate the notion that sprints are not a speciality for Kenya,” he said. Mary Moraa braved a recovering knee injury to join Hellen Syombua in the 400m line-up to the Worlds. The team is expected in camp on Monday and train for one week before leaving for Doha on September 24.  In the field category Julius Yego (javelin) and Mathew Sawe (high jump) lead the way. The team head coach is Julius Kirwa and will be assisted by Bernard Ouma, David Kitur, Shame Kororia, Abraham Kiplimo, Shelly Kilunda, Joseph Cheromei and Richard Metto. Other officials are Joseph Kiget (team manager), Erastus Kabugi (assistant team manager) and Fred Oundo (documentation official).