The use of bhang as a recreational drug among young people is gaining momentum even as other rugs such as Miraa and shisha comes down, a new survey has shown. Use of cigarettes was at three per cent and still coming down, with most brands being Sportsman and Dunhill. The survey titled Holla was released by Consumer Insight on Thursday at Raira offices, Nairobi. Some 1,634 young people aged between 13 to 30, were surveyed in 16 counties between January and March this year, representing 50 per cent of Kenya's population. Eight per cent used Miraa, bhang and Shisha as recreational drugs. The use of Miraa and Shisha was, however, coming down even as bhang use increased. Shisha was banned by the Ministry of Health in 2017, making the use of the drug illegal for sale by restaurants and night clubs. Following the ban, Kenya become the third country in East Africa to ban it. Tanzania and Rwanda have banned it. Seventeen per cent of young people aged 13-30 used alcohol. However, its use was coming down, with the most preferred brands being Tusker, Guinness, Kenya Cane, Jameson, Smirnoff Ice, Amarula, Fourth Street and Caprice. The report further showed that five per cent of young people took gambling seriously as a job. "Thirty-eight per cent of males gambled last one year while eight per cent were females," Maina said. Youth from poor economic status gambled the most at 28 per cent. Both high and middle class tied at 22 per cent. On contraceptive use, 28 per cent have ever used condoms while 16 per cent were currently using, making a difference of 12 per cent. Twenty-six per cent have ever used injections compared to the current 16 per cent users. Twenty three per cent have used pills compared to 10 per cent current users. Sixteen per cent have used implants as opposed to the current 11 percent while 38 per cent have used E-pills. The fear of death is also similar across the youth spectrum, with the number one fear being death at 51 per cent, HIV/AIDS at 39 per cent, and serious illnesses at 39 per cent. In 2018, the fear of death was at 47 per cent up from 44 per cent in 2017. Also, fear of HIV and AIDS in 2018 was 37 per cent compared to 38 per cent in 2017. Moreover, the fear of serious illness in 2018 was at 35 per cent compared to 24 per cent in 2017. "Young people are eating more healthier for fear of some lifestyle diseases," Maina said. Further, a majority of the youth interviewed, the important things in life are health at 49 per cent, education at 46 per cent and family at 44 per cent. The youth are not thought to be at the forefront of the digital revolution for nothing. As per the Holla report, 65 per cent of those interviewed typically use the internet, though internet usage is still connected to high-income levels. Eleven per cent have ever shopped online. Items bought online included mobile phones for high income, clothes for mid-income, airtime (mid-income), travel tickets(mid-income) and jewellery for high income. And while they are certainly not all alike in their digital habits, if there’s something connecting them, it’s that most seem always to be connected to an Internet connection. On internet use, 86 per cent were on social media with 89 per cent doing so on a daily basis. Some 35 per cent listened to music with 31 per cent searching for information, while 23 per cent watched movies. Nineteen per cent were on emails, 15 per cent looked for news and another 15 per cent watched games. Eleven per cent looked for jobs, while 10 per cent listened to the radio. Some nine per cent dated online while 81 per cent secured friendship while romance stood at 52 per cent. Maina said 36 per cent of the young people had virtual accounts with many opting for virtual loans. Mobile apps were main source of loans, he said as youth no longer relied on friends, family members. Those with bank accounts stood at 28 per cent. Financial products available for use such as current accounts, mobile banking and savings account had gone down. "Banks are dying slowly," Maina said. He said savvy young people preferred to use mobile money transfer. The ideal marriage age for any youth is 27 to 29 years for both male and female. The research showed that the most ideal wedding ceremony was religious The report found out that the attitude of the youth and lifestyles vary according to gender, geographical region, economic status, and level of education. For example, when it comes to ideas and ideals about customs and tradition, there seems to be a significant divide between young men and women, with men being more likely to stick to old notions about tradition. Also, young men are more likely to support customs such as making contributions towards community welfare, arranged marriages, and siblings marrying in order of birth. On their part, young women are more likely to agree with remaining a virgin until marriage and women inheriting property. The youth are also divided when it comes to sports. As per the report, it is only 59 per cent of those who were interviewed who said they frequently watch sports. The typical sports fan likely to be male hailed from areas such as the Lakeside and the Coast region. But if there are points of divergence between the youth, there are areas where they speak in one voice. According to the report, 98 per cent of youth speak Kiswahili, followed by English at 91 per cent, 75 per cent vernacular, and 22 per cent sheng. Interestingly, those who speak English and Kiswahili are more likely to have the writing ability of the languages at 93 per cent and 91 per cent respectively. Vernacular and sheng stood at 34 and 10 per cent respectively. Fifty-one per cent of youth said they spend their free time listening to music. Thirty-three per cent watched movies at home, 28 per cent engaging in chats, 25 per cent watched TV, and 25 per cent socialised with friends and family. Bongo Flava seems to be hot among this demographic, with artists like Diamond Platinum and Ali Kiba being the most popular. Other popular genres include local music, rap, and rumba.