Counties will next week receive Sh55.05 billion from the National Treasury. The Senate on Wednesday approved the county governments' Cash Disbursement Schedule for 2019-20 prepared by the Treasury. The schedule details the amounts every county will receive from the National Treasury by the 15th of every month. Counties were yet to receive the equitable share of revenue since July 1 due to a stalemate in Parliament over the Division of Revenue Bill, 2019. The schedule tabled in the House by Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jr indicates that counties will get the cash within seven days. Mutula tabled the schedule on behalf of the Finance and Budget Committee chairman Mohamed Mahamud. The money is the total allocation for the first quarter of the year. It will be released to the individual County Revenue Funds accounts by the Central Bank of Kenya. They will receive Sh15.19 billion for July, August (Sh19.93 billion) and September (Sh19.93 billion). Nairobi county will get Sh2.76 billion – the highest for the three-month period. Besides the equitable share of revenue, counties will get additional Sh3.5 billion in conditional grants for the period. They include money for the construction of county headquarters, running of Level 5 hospitals, road maintenance levy and maintenance of water towers. The counties will make a requisition to the Controller of Budget to access the funds. On Tuesday, the Senate approved the County Allocation of Revenue Bill with amendments to allow the National Treasury to remit the cash for the three months in full. The Bill, which was signed into law the following day by President Uhuru Kenyatta, splits among the 47 counties the Sh316 billion allocated in the Division of Revenue Act. The Act allocated Nairobi the highest amount of Sh15.9 billion, followed by Turkana at Sh10.5 billion and Nakuru at Sh10.47 billion. “In view of the delay in determining of the Division of Revenue Bill, 2019, we amended CARA so that the money allocated will be remitted in arrears and immediately within seven days of the passage of the Schedule,” Mutula said. Mutula urged county assemblies to move fast and pass county government budgets to resume normal operations. The counties will receive Sh25.32 billion, Sh31.32 billion, Sh28.48 billion and Sh33.23 billion in October, November, December and January respectively. In some counties, normal operations have been disrupted with workers downing their tools. The crisis was caused by a prolonged standoff between the Senate and the National Assembly over the amount of money that should be allocated to counties. While senators insisted that the counties should get Sh335 billion, their counterparts stuck on Sh316 billion. The senators, however, beat a retreat and accepted Sh316 billion. Edited by R.Wamochie