Seven of the nine unclaimed bodies at the Mama Lucy Hospital in Nairobi have finally been identified. On September 8, 2019, the management wrote to homicide detectives to help in identifying the bodies. They have been at the hospital's morgue for about four months. Early this month, Health executive Mohammed Dagane raised concerns over the increasing number of unclaimed bodies in the county's health facilitates. Some 273 unclaimed bodies lie in county morgues and Governor Mike Sonko's administration appealed to the public to identify them. Mbagathi and Mama Lucy hospitals and the City Mortuary have the most number of unclaimed bodies. The county has advertised for collection of unclaimed bodies at Mbagathi Hospital and the City Mortuary. The Public Health Act recommends that a body should be removed from the mortuary within two weeks and thereafter disposed of. On Monday, Mama Lucy Medical superintendent Musa Mohamed said the results were released on Saturday in which the seven were identified. "After the fingerprints were taken, only two bodies have been left unidentified. Occasionally, we receive accident victims whose identity is not known or have no relatives accompanying them when being admitted for treatment and that is why we involved the homicide police to help us," he said. Those identified are Eugine Wabure Wechuli (ID number 31942404), Peter Macharia Mwango (ID 35626948), Samuel Etili Aiyamai (ID 29601734), Daniel Oruru Amuzama (14433995), and Raphael Kwetu Kasamani (25780813). Others are Dismas Leokono (21852126) and Benjamin Boma Wasike (24205386). According to Dr Musa, most of them were victims of road accidents and two while two individuals succumbed to natural illness. "The hospital's emergency department receives patients from across the country and some cases have victims who have no documents to ascertain their identity. But we will still try to identify the two remaining bodies," he said. The hospital management has now called on the relatives of the seven identified bodies to collect them. They will be required to pay morgue charges that have accrued during the period before they can collect the bodies for disposal. Governor Mike Sonko has offered help in case the relatives will be completely unable to meet the expenses. The county could provide a waiver. A 21-day notice has been issued and the bodies will be interred in a mass grave at the Lang'ata cemetery if no relative turns up. (Edited by F'Orieny)