Former Kakamega senator Boni Khalwale has praised his friendship with DP William Ruto after decamping from Ford Kenya party. The former senator faced expulsion from Ford Kenya for endorsing Ruto’s 2022 presidential ambitions. "They thought and wished that it could be a simple case worthy of dismissal with Sugoi dish washer, Turncoat, Luhyia sell out and Ruto's boot licker," he said on Thursday. Khalwale added "But alas, and we thank u Lord. It has blossomed into a national hustler movement!" His tweet was received by mixed reaction from Kenyans who told him off. @_fels1 said "Imagine Ruto doesn’t talk about you this much, the way you breathe, eat, drink, and dream about him. You’re an adult with a family, find a decent job and get busy." "For once you’ve tweeted something sensible by perfectly describing yourself in those pointers. Lamba kabisa babu, bills must be paid," @BelAkinyii said. @FelixxOtienoo said "And now that you have found a place where you can eat free. Jaribu kukula uongeze Mwili. Mulembe national should wake up, they have the numbers but don't have the say because they value their stomach so much that they don't care about the brain." "Atwoli was right when he stated clearly that you are a political beggar," @Saniz_M @KileluVincent said "National hustler movement??? Time will tell. Why are you not roaming in mombasa, ukambani, Kissi , Luo nyanza, Nairobi...wait for kibera to teach you a lesson." "Njaa ni mbaya,it's good now you can feed your family bila stress but 2022 Governor utaonea Viusasa.," @nellobando said. @MburuMburu5 said " Do you have friends who specialised in mental health ? Talk to them." "You have become a certified begger,"@Alfredokudo said. @yahya_wales said "You will be the first person to be purnished by ruto once in power,enjoy while it lasts,the same happened between uhuruto to the extent of martching neck ties,and shirts like dating college freshers..but again Ruto will never be president." "Waiting for the day Ruto will post a picture of you and heaping praise on you. Ndio tutaamini wewe sio blogger yake.," @Abdinasiribrah8 said. @Tony56013866 said "Talk of hallucination. Ruto may be desperate but he knows your value, which is zero." Others supported his friendship with the deputy president saying that he was key to winning the hearts of Western Kenya people. @The_Realist03 said "It's more than that Sir, it's more than a movement, it's an ideology, a reality, a way of living. It's a must breath air. The Hustler Movement is an assistant Oxygen." @KesisN said "Thanks khalwale for joining the hustlers Nation I know you are a bull fighter and we are on a winning position. mbele iko sawa na Dr William samoei. "Peeps calling Bonny names and rebuking his alliance with No. 2 are the ones with a problem. He's following his own path n convictions and if one doesn't like the way he does politics then let them go into it and do it their own way. Mbona mnawashwa? Nobody owes anybody anything! @Naitwabenedict said. @Philemo91943896 said "Unstoppable indeed ignore those others who still thrive in denial.# hustlers." Khalwale contested for the Kakamega governorship on Ford Kenya ticket, a Nasa affiliate in 2017 but has lately become the fiercest defender for the DP in Western. He is the main champion of the DP's cause in the Western region at the moment after Jubilee MPs in the area who earlier drummed up support for the DP went silent. The former Ford Kenya stalwart challenged ODM leader Raila Odinga to retire from politics and leave Kenyans to make decisions of their own.