Galmagala police camp in Fafi on Saturday received 23 new security officers. This comes a day after Garissa Woman Representative Anab Gure protested the withdrawal of officers from the camp. On Wednesday, it was alleged that county police commander Alfred Angeng’o had instructed the Bura division police boss to withdraw the officers and immediately redeploy them to Mansabubu. Anab had said the withdrawal of the officers would hurt security. The area had previously been prone to terror attacks. But the county police boss dismissed the allegations and termed them "unfounded". He said what happened was a normal reshuffle that should not be a cause for concern. “We’ve not moved the officers as alleged by the woman rep. What we’ve done is a reshuffle. The number of officers stationed at the camp will still remain the same,” he said. Speaking to the press in Galmagala after she accompanied the 23 officers to the newly expanded camp, Anab said they will boost security in the border town. “Security of Kenyans and their property should not be taken lightly, especially for those residing in border towns that are prone to terror attacks. I thank the top security heads for their cooperation,” she said. “All camps that have a few officers should be boosted and given the latest weaponry that can match al Shabaab who have been overrunning such small camps,” she said. Al Shabaab militants have remained active in Northeastern, especially in towns and settlements that border Somalia. In August 2013, they attacked the Galmagala AP camp and killed four officers before razing it down. Northeastern regional commissioner Mohamed Birik last Friday said the government would not take any chances in securing the borders. Birik said the government is increasing the number of officers in the camps along the border with Somalia. “We are recruiting and equipping the KPRs as part of reinforcement of all the camps, and we shall start with those along the border that are more prone to terror attacks."