Two Kenyans have been affected by the ongoing violence against foreign nationals in South Africa. Foreign Affairs Cabinet Secretary Monica Juma on Wednesday said the two are among dozens whose property have been destroyed. “We woke up to troubling news about xenophobic attacks against non-nationals in several places in South Africa. Reports in hand indicate two Kenyans were affected and their property destroyed,” she wrote on her Twitter handle. She said Kenya strongly condemns the increasing wave of xenophobic attacks. Juma said she hoped that the ethos and values of Pan Africanism will prevail over narrow nationalisms, and be the bonds that glue them together, as African brothers and sisters. Kenya’s Embassy in South Africa is in close contact with the government to ensure the safety of Kenyans and protection of their property, she said. Meanwhile, legislators attending the 50th Commonwealth Parliamentary Association Africa Region Conference in Zanzibar, have strongly condemned the attacks. The members expressed dismay at the violence meted on fellow African immigrants in Gauteng Province and urged South Africa to adopt an attitudinal change. They said the unfortunate developments were tantamount to South Africa's ungratefulness to efforts played by many African nations in the liberation of the country. The lawmakers urged the South African Parliament and the provincial legislatures to work with their government to get a lasting solution to the matter. The legislators asked the government to include historical aspects in the South African schools' curriculum, noting that the young people involved in the chaos were probably oblivious of the country's history. The Kenyan delegation led by the Chairperson of the Executive Committee, CPA Africa Region, National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi urged South Africans to impress upon the government to bring to book the perpetrators of the violence "We wish to let our colleagues from South Africa know that we are not criticising them for no apparent reason. We are concerned that Africans from other parts of the continent cannot freely interact with their fellow Africans in South Africa", Muturi said. He added: "We wish to urge the government of South Africa to find a lasting solution to this situation." Leader of the Minority in the National Assembly John Mbadi asked the South African government to take stern action beyond issuing statements condemning the chaos. He observed that the physical boundaries that divide African countries should remain imaginary and that if nothing is done on the issue, it could be replicated elsewhere in the continent. "When a child in your homestead misbehaves to the neighbours, the whole household gets a bad name.  You should discipline that child in a manner that demonstrates to the whole village that you do not condone such behaviour," Mbadi said. Kitui Senator Enoch Wambua informed the forum that when Starehe MP Charles Njagua made xenophobic statements against Tanzanians, the government of Kenya was quick to apprehend him. The Speaker of Uganda Rebecca Kadaga while condemning the violence, urged the affected nations to restrain their people against revenge. She, however, asked South Africa to style up on its dealings with other African countries noting that Ugandans seeking South African visas have often been mistreated at the country's High Commission in Kampala Delegates from Nigeria- whose nationals have massively been affected by the current violence decried the inhumane treatment of their nationals by South Africans. The Speaker of the House of Representatives in Nigeria Femi Gbajabiamila has since cut short his participation in the forum and flown back to Abuja to reconvene the House to discuss the situation in Johannesburg. Led by the Chairperson of the Commonwealth Women Parliamentary Forum Zainab Gimba Nigerian MPs urged the CPA forum to pass a resolution to send a delegation to the government of South Africa to discuss the situation. Other legislators from Malawi, Zambia and Ghana also expressed their disappointments with the on-goings in Johannesburg and its environs. The Minister of Parliamentary Affairs in Ghana, Osei Kyei Mensah Bonsu further urged South Africa to always remember that their emancipation from apartheid was a collective act of the entire continent. Responding to the concerns, the Deputy Speaker of the South African Parliament, Lechesa Tsenoli and the Chairperson of the Council of Provinces (Upper House) Amos Masondo, acknowledged that the South African legislators were indeed embarrassed by the situation back home. They both apportioned blame on organised gangs but promised that their respective legislatures were already dealing with the matter through their relevant Parliamentary Committees. The four-day forum which ends today is expected to make a resolution on the matter during its annual general meeting.