Coach Stanley Okumbi has warned the national under-20 team that they face a formidable opponent this weekend when they begin the regional campaign in the Cecafa Under-20 Championships. The team has been in camp in Nairobi and all is now set for the junior regional showpiece set to be played between tomorrow and October 5. The team left the country by bus for Uganda on Wednesday ahead of the upcoming Cecafa show. “We are in a tough group but I think the tougher the group the better the challenge,” said  Okumbi. “With the quality of players we have in the team, I don’t think we have an excuse of not getting positive results. I have challenged my players that this is their chance of showcasing what they can do and I am confident we will do well,” added the coach. As expected, Kenyan Premier League stars made the bulk of the squad with the youthful Sharks team taking up a quarter of those travelling slots. The highly-rated goalkeeper Brian Bwire and fancied central defender Tom Teka are in the squad. Musa Masika, a future senior international contender, who was in great contention for the Kenyan team to the Africa Nations Cup in Cairo also made the cut. Midfielder Boniface Mwangemi of Dagoretti High School and  Ronald Shichenje of Aspire Academy are the only none, top division players. Kenya have been pooled in Group 'B' alongside Ethiopia, Zanzibar and Tanzania. Uganda, Sudan, Eritrea, and Djibouti make up Group ‘A’ while Burundi, South Sudan, and Somalia constitute Group ‘C’. The top three teams from Group A and B will join the top two from Group C in the quarter-finals. Final Squad: Goalkeepers: Brian Bwire (Sharks), Bixente Otieno (Wazito); Defenders: Alphonse Otieno (Gor), Alvin Ochieng (Kisumu All-Stars), Brian Wepo (Nzoia), Boniface Mwangemi (Dagoretti High School), John Otieno (Homeboyz), Tom Teka (Sharks); Midfielders: Joshua Nyatini (Wazito), Fidel Origa (Western Stima), Musa Masika (Wazito), John Njuguna (Ulinzi Stars), Peter Oudo (Kariobangi Sharks), Austin Ochieng (Leopards), Steve Otieno (All-Stars), Chris Owino (FC Talanta); Forwards: Sydney Lokale (Sharks), Benson Omala (Western Stima), Ronald Shichenje (Aspire Academy) and Patrick Otieno (Sharks).