A mouthwatering encounter lies in store as Stray Lions host Kanbis in the final round of the Nairobi Invitational Cricket League at Peponi School tomorrow. Both teams are flying high on confidence with a 100% run into this match. Stray Lions have bounced back from a poor run in the Twenty20 show to win all their three opening matches while Kanbis have also maintained their good run since winning the T20 title. While all the talk about Stray Lions coming into life had been about the inclusion of three players from India— Shushil Sharma, Shabbir Shaikh and Durvesh Sanjay, it is Maurice Odumbe's ‘impact’ that has led them to the top of the table. The former national team skipper and current national team coach have in two occasions bowled Stray Lions to victory. Last week’s 4 for 14 helped his side bowl out Cutchi Leva for 77 to register a thrashing 111-run win. Fifty-year-old Odumbe has defied all the odds and has turned out to be Stray Lions main man in their current campaign and a threat to opponents’ batting. That is the threat that Kanbis will need to be wary of on tomorrow and it is one that Kanbis skipper Rajesh Bhudia has already taken note of. Kanbis has been on a good run since the start of the breakaway competition but it is important to remember that they have exclusively played against weak bowling side. “We know we are coming up against a side that ha bounced back because of its bowling. Their bowlers havw been behind their current superb run," he said. “We have to change. We have to adapt to Stray Lions no doubt who have got a number of good, fast and spin bowlers.” There is little to choose between the two respective batting units with both bringing something different to the table. Kanbis have a formidable batting unit containing plenty of variety with the likes of Dhiren Gondaria, Rakep Patel and Vinod Rabadia in tow. While Rakep and Gondaria are capable to taking the attack to the opposition, Rabadia is more than capable of anchoring the innings while the likes of Bhudia and Ramesh Mepani can provide the fireworks in the death overs. Stray Lions, on the other hand, will be hoping that their batsmen and mostly their professional players will come to the party and get the scoreboard. In the three wins that the hosts have registered, their names have not stood out on the board and it will be great to see them doing exactly that where it matters most.