Kenya has launched an anti-malaria vaccine, becoming the third country in Africa to do so. The other countries are Ghana and Malawi. Health CS Sicily Kariuki launched the vaccine in Ndhiwa, Homa Bay county, on Friday where she said the occasion was a big step in the fight against the killer disease endemic in the country. The vaccine is injected into the body so to provide immunity against malaria. It is administered on children at the age of six, seven, nine and 24 months to boost their immunity. Kariuki said the vaccine will be given to children in all health facilities and other immunisation centres designated by county governments. The CS malaria spread rate in the country stands at 27 per cent. She said the vaccine is safe, having undergone the requisite clinical trials. “Nobody should be worried about the vaccine. All clinical tests required have been done to prove that it is safe for and harmless to human,” she said. She said the vaccine will help reduce malaria infections around the lake region. “Religious and political leaders should help us popularise this vaccine. Let’s not bring in retrogressive beliefs during immunisation,” she added. The CS said the government will continue using other malaria prevention measures to ensure the disease is completely eradicated in the country. “This vaccine does not mean we are going to stop other prevention measures such as use of mosquito nets, residual spraying, among others. The other interventions must continue too,” she said. The first phase of immunisation will covers eight counties around Lake Victoria region. They are Homa Bay, Migori, Kisumu, Siaya, Busia, Kakamega, Vihiga and Bungoma. “The vaccine is adequate for counties where it has been rolled out today. We are also going to roll out it in other counties through phases as soon as logistical arrangements are made,” Kariuki said. Homa Bay Deputy Governor Hamilton Orata said the vaccine will be offered in hospitals in Ndhiwa, Homa Bay town and Kabondo Kasipul subcounties. He expressed optimism that the vaccine will save lives of many children who are at risk of dying of malaria in the county. “Malaria is one the killer diseases of many children in this county. This vaccine will help us eradicate the disease,” Orata said. He said the county government will collaborate with the national government to promote health. Ndhiwa MP Martin Owino arged the county government to invest in community health workers for the success of vaccination. “If we empower community health workers, everybody in the community will get the vaccine,” Owino said. Implementation of the programme is a joint effort of the government and a number of health partners including PATH and the World Health Organisation.