The 2019 ASK Mombasa International Show will open its doors to residents on Wednesday, with a clarion call for the youth to adopt agribusiness. This year’s theme is 'Promoting Innovation and Technology in Agriculture and Trade'. For the first time, the event is being held during school days and organisers are optimistic it will surpass previous shows in terms of attendance. "Already, we have surpassed the target for exhibitors. We had a target of 180 exhibitors but now we are at 190, including about five from abroad,” ASK Mombasa county chairperson Anisa Abdalla said on Tuesday. Exhibitors from Ukraine, China, Uganda, Zanzibar and Tanzania will attend. They will provide important lessons about their technologies and agricultural inputs and methods. President Uhuru Kenyatta is expected to officially open the show on Thursday. It will end on Sunday. Security in and around the Mkomani Showground has been beefed up ahead of the President's arrival. The head of state is keen to have the youth venture more into agriculture so they can contribute to food security, a crucial pillar of his Big Four agenda. Abdalla urged Coast residents to turn up en masse to learn different farming methods. She said appealed to the youth to turn to agribusiness to boost their incomes and the local economies. “There are no white-collar jobs. The youth need to start thinking outside the box." ASK national deputy chairperson Edith Onzere said residents should focus on new farming and trade technologies. “Many people think there is no agriculture at the Coast. But if you come to the show you will learn it is possible to practise agriculture at the Coast and do well,” she said. There have been doubts about the numbers that will show up for the show given this year’s break with tradition. Over the years, the event has been held during the August holidays. Abdalla, however, expressed confidence it will prove the greatest so far. “We carefully thought about the dates because we have done our research and found that it is preferable to hold the event in September,” she said. She said they have spoken to school principals across the region and they have agreed to release their students to attend the show. This year’s show is also significant because of the government’s efforts to revive and exploit the blue economy. “There is a lot to be learnt on the blue economy because there are different stands that will have important info on the same,” Abdalla said. Mombasa county commissioner Gilbert Kitiyo toured the ground on Tuesday to assess the level of security in place. He expressed satisfaction with the preparation and called on Coast residents to show up in large numbers. “This will be a successful event,” he said. (Edited by F'Orieny)