The appointment of former Labour CS Kazungu Kambi to the National Land Commission has sent jitters to Bamba residents over his involvement in the Giriama Ranch saga. On Saturday, the residents accused President Uhuru Kenyatta of applying double standards in the fight against corruption. Led by Johnson Charo from Goshi within the ranch, the residents urged MPs to reject Kambi’s appointment as 'he may jeopardise their quest to reclaim their ranch'. “The President is the one who fired Kambi from the Cabinet on corruption allegations. Why is he then appointing the same person to such a sensitive commission? Kambi together with other directors of Giriama Ranch forged the title for the ranch and his company used the title to obtain a loan which he failed to service now our land is on the verge of being auctioned,” Charo said. He added, "The president is risking the lives of more than 6,000 people living in the ranch at the expense of one person. We do not care if he is rewarding him because he is his friend. We are worried if he takes the position he will sell the land as he has attempted several times." Changawa Kenga, who was evicted from Mapotea within the ranch, said residents are now living in fear of losing the land. He said they have not been at peace since they received the news of Kambi’s appointment. “The President scored an own goal. Unless he has personal interests in our land he should revoke Kambi’s name. Our land will be sold under Kambi’s reign at the NLC,” he said. Another resident Gideon Katana said if Kambi must be in NLC, then the government should return the ranch to the rightful owners. “The Coast region has many people who can be in NLC and not necessarily Kambi. I am sure the President did not sit with the leaders of this region; otherwise, he would not have picked Kambi,” he said. Jumaa Kitsao from Ndharako said the ranches in the area risk being sold by Kambi. Giriama Ranch was used as security for a Sh250 million bank loan secured in 2007 by Riva Oils Company Limited. Kambi, together with former chief Ezekiel Karisa (deceased) and David Komen are the directors of Riva Oils Limited. Karisa died last year. The directors used a provisional title deed of the Giriama Ranch as a guarantee for the loan, allegedly claiming the original title deed was lost. The genuine title deed of the ranch is in the hands of the directors. Last year, leaders stopped an auction of the ranch. Last week, Coast MPs who are members of the land committee refused to endorse Kambi’s name for the post. Some had to walk out of the meeting. Kilifi North's Owen Baya said the region is not about a few individuals. “The ranch has thousands of people. If the residents feel uncomfortable with the appointment then the best thing for us is to reject it. We are in Parliament to represent the public not the interests of one individual,” the legislator said. Ganze's Teddy Mwambire said defending Kambi’s appointment is defending impunity. Last year, United Arab Emirates company Al Makhtum Holdings had offered to buy the ranch at Sh17 billion. “The person who brought this company to buy the ranch was none other than Kazungu Kambi. The deal was for the company to buy the ranch then use some of the money to offset the loan taken by Riva Oils,” a Giriama ranch director told the Star in confidence. Edited by R.Wamochie