While the Nyege Nyege festival is famous for its multiple stages, absurd fashion statements, camping experience and iconic performances, drug abuse, queer movements and sexually explicit scenes also find expression. Despite the heavy security presence at the venue, Nyege Nyege has a reputation for being a “sex and drugs party”, and historical accounts back that up. Attendee Paul Obwa, a Kenyan recording artiste, agrees that inevitable drug abuse at the festival is a great catalyst to the hedonistic acts displayed. "What do you expect from a four-day unending party scene with all manner of substance abuse? Anyway, once you are used to the idea of the festival, everything is a possibility and nothing really seems to shock you anymore," he said. Despite Uganda’s harsh laws against the LGBTQ community, the festival is indeed this welcome place for people of all walks of life. Musau Mumo viewed the festival as a safe space for partygoers to identify with themselves without any condemnation from the public. “For a party like this to allow for the freedom of expression and provide an environment of zero judgment is quite inspiring,” Musau said. One of the performing acts, Kampire Buhana (DJ Kampire), whose work aims at creating safe spaces for women and the LGBTQ, supported the notion of freedom of expression by posting a tweet calling out a biased media only interested in outing the negatives of the festival. “Instead of sharing fake news of women's butts, I'd love to see UG press talk about how underground acts from each EA nation were represented at Nyege Nyege Festival,” Kampire’s tweet read. "How this was the first reunion of Uganda's Cranes Band in decades. How much revenue the event brings to the local economy." Kampire doesn't deny the raunchy nature of the festival, but dismisses the media attention on content that doesn't highlight the heights Nyege Nyege performers, whether local or international, have reached due to the festival. "But y'all would rather share old videos of Cassper Nyovest's junk being fondled (fake news). And then white people tell our stories and get it wrong, or the govt tries to ban the fest coz they think it's all about sex, we complain," Kampire's tweet read. The image problem notwithstanding, this year's festival was nothing short of brilliance and energy. Artistes exhibited precision in their performances, while the partygoers were deeply involved in the celebrations. Nothing elevates a good festival like a powerful display of undying vibrancy exhibited by each and every player at an occasion. Edited by Tom Jalio