The Geothermal Development Company has struck steam at Baringo-Silali Geothermal Project in Baringo county. The Paka One well started to emit steam over the weekend, another sign Kenya is one of the most geothermally rich countries in the world. Three wells are to be drilled at the geothermal project. GDC officials said the new well at Paka Field, 260km northwest of Nairobi, is the first to be drilled in the region. It opens a new frontier of renewable energy. The company’s Managing Director and CEO, Eng. Johnson P. Nchoe, said the discovery proved the commercial viability of the Paka geothermal field. “This is an exciting time for GDC and Kenya. This well is a game-changer. It has proved the viability of the Paka geothermal field. It’s also ushering Kenya into an age of vibrant geothermal energy,” Nchoe said. Kenya's other geothermal fields are in Olkaria and Menengai. The first phase of the Baringo-Silali Geothermal Project aims to develop 300MW spread over three geothermal areas —  Korosi, Paka and Silali. “At GDC we are aggressively expanding energy opportunities for Kenya. Our commitment is to ensure timely delivery of renewable energy projects to support the country’s development vision,” the CEO said in an interview. He said all major economies thrive because of access to abundant energy, including geothermal. On hand to To witness the dramatic discharging of steam was a delegation from the project financiers, Kfw of Germany, which also was inspecting the project. “The success of the drilling of the well is exciting. Paka is no longer a prospect but a field.  We will continue to support GDC in the drilling operations," said Wisely Vargas, Kfw's senior technical expert for geothermal. Kfw has financed steam field development for about 300MW and GDC will provide counterpart funding. The financing also includes road networks and ae water reticulation system for drilling operations. GDC has also ncorporated a robust community water supply programme with 20 watering points for domestic and livestock use. “The success of the project is also critical to the Big Four agenda. Renewable and affordable geothermal energy will boost all the sectors of the economy. This is a big milestone for Kenya,” Eng. Nchoe said. (Edited by V. Graham) 