Kenyan teams have been locked out of the 2019 Africa Handball Club Championships set for between October 4 and 13 Niamey, Niger. Clubs that were meant to enter the championships include Kenya Defence Forces’ Ulinzi, Black Mamba, Strathmore University (men), Nairobi Water Queens women and National Cereals and Produce Board for both genders. The above teams were technically locked out of the continental showpiece after they failed to confirm their participation two months ago. Whereas the draws were done at the sidelines of Africa women’s Youth Championships in Niamey between September 16 and 24, NCPB deputy team manager Edna Kasandi was still hopeful her teams would participate in the bonanza if the board approves. She said: “The teams are training well. We have the league going on and regional and continental events coming up so we are ready for any challenge. We are waiting for the board to give us the nod to honour the Championships.” The East and Central Handball Championship is scheduled for December in Kigali, Rwanda. For Strathmore, financial constraints account for their absence in the Championships. Coach Peter Mwathi, who also doubles up as the men’s national team tactician, said their budget was not approved in time for them to enter the team in the tournament. “We have been waiting for the budgetary allocation for the trip but it hasn’t been forthcoming so we are technically out. We shift our focus on the league and hopefully, we will compete at the regional tournament in December,” averred Mwathi. Meanwhile, 19 clubs drawn from eight countries have entered for both men (10) and women (nine) competitions. Participating countries are Angola, Senegal, Congo Brazzaville, Guinea, Democratic Republic of Congo, Tunisia, Cote d’Ivoire, Algeria, Benin and hosts Niger. The women’s showpiece has drawn giants Premero de Agosto of Angola, Congo Brazzaville’s DGSP, Heritage (DR Congo), FAP (Cameroon), Bandama (Cote d’Ivoire), Petro Atletico, Abo Sport, Evabuka and Atletico de Mindelo. The men’s tournament has Egypt’s Sporting Club, Inter-Club (Angola), Red Star, JSK and Cote d’Ivoire’s Atletico de Mindelo. Zamalek (Egypt), Widad Smara (Morocco), Etoile (Congo), FAP (Cameroon) and Deportivo de Praia of Cape Verde.  