Kibuline Secondary School in Tigania West will remain shut until next Monday after a fire destroyed the boys' dormitory on Tuesday. School principal Peter Kinyua on Tuesday said students were ordered to leave the institution to allow for investigations and further plans. The dormitory housed 116 students. No one was hurt in the 8pm fire as the students were attending their evening preps. Nothing was salvaged. Tigania West MP John Mutunga on Tuesday pointed fingers at outsiders, saying the dormitory was close to the school fence, near a road. He said arsonists could have torched it. Mutunga said they have tasked investigating officers and the school's board of management to investigate the cause of the fire. He appealed to well-wishers to assist the institution to rebuild the dormitory and the students with personal effects. The MP said they have brought blankets and other personal effects for students, but they are not enough. "Most of the learners in this school are from needy backgrounds and have been relying on CDF to pay fees. There are no clear links to the cause of the fire but there is a path behind it, and we suspect arsonists from outside the school may have torched it," Mutunga said. "We appeal to national, county governments and well-wishers to intervene and help the school and students." Meanwhile, two children were rushed to Meru Level 5 Hospital with burns after their homes were destroyed in a fire on Tuesday. The two children were rescued by the Meru county fire team, with the help of residents. The children had been left in their timber houses at Gakoromone market near Giaki matatu stage. North Imenti deputy county commissioner Mahmoud Salim confirmed the incident. He said investigations have been launched to establish the cause of the fire. "The fire was contained but some wooden structures were burnt down," Salim said. North Imenti subcounty commander Robinson Mboloi said the two children are responding well to treatment. "Tuesday (yesterday) at 20.30hours, five timber houses caught fire and were completely burnt down. Two children were injured and rushed to Meru level five in fair condition." The fire was put out by firefighters from Meru county, who assisted by members of the public, he said. However, residents said they suspect the fire was caused by a burning candle in one of the houses. Resident Henry Kimanthi said the swift response by firefighters helped prevent the fire from spreading to more houses.    