A Makadara court has directed police to file an inquest into the death of a two-year-old boy who was killed in Soweto slums, Kasarani. Senior principal magistrate Angelo Kithinji gave the directions after closing a file in which two police officers had been detained for investigation following the death of the boy. On September 10, the magistrate allowed police to detain police constables Stephen Mwangi and Benjamin Ekamais for 14 days to complete their investigations. The court set the two officers free. In an affidavit, investigating officer Peter Maina said on September 9 Duncan Githinji was killed by a stray bullet at Soweto village. He said from the information received, the two officers who were on duty at Maziwa police post may have been involved. Maina said the two had arrested Pauline Wangui when they were confronted by members of the public with the intention to rescue the suspect. The officers used their firearms to disperse the crowd by firing three rounds of ammunition in the air. He said one of the stray bullets may have hit the boy. “I need time to record all statements of various witnesses and the suspect bearing in mind that the offence is serious,” Maina told the court. The investigating officer said he needed time to take the firearms issued to the officers for ballistics analysis. He also needed to have the autopsy conducted on the body to establish the cause of death. The officers were arrested on September 9 after being liked to the death of Githinji. He was pronounced dead on arrival at Kiambu Level 5 Hospital where he had been rushed by his relatives shortly after the incident that occurred at around 7pm. Residents who spoke to the Star on condition of anonymity for fear of victimisation blamed the incident on the police. They accused the officers of terrorising the locals while demanding bribes from chang'aa brewers in the slum. “We are tired of the officers from Maziwa police post. The innocent child was shot by the officers who had disagreed with some of the women who trade in illicit liquor in the slum,” a resident said.