KIMILILI MP Didmus Barasa was heavily reprimanded by Deputy President William Ruto for his actions early this month. Sources told the Corridors that Ruto summoned Barasa and read the riot act to him for purporting to have replaced Sirisia MP John Waluke as the chairman of Jubilee party in Bungoma. Barasa, a close ally of the Deputy President, is said to have been cautioned against doing anything that would portray Jubilee as divided. Barasa led a group of MCAs that supposedly ousted Waluke and the entire office. The MCAs even endorsed new party officials to serve until March 2020 when elections will be held. THAT Musalia Mudavadi’s ANC and Moses Wetang’ula’s Ford Kenya each fielding a candidate for the Kibra by-election was a second thought. Sources whispered to Corridors that the leaders of the two parties had initially agreed to present one candidate so as not to split the support the two parties enjoy in Kibra. ANC’s candidate Eliud Owalo is said to have first approached Wetang'ula but changed mind and went to Mudavadi. Irked by the move, Wetang'ula then decided to field Hamisi Butich just to hit back at Mudavadi. Does this, therefore, imply that the elusive Luhya unity is still a reality? A first-term Member of Parliament from Nyanza has been having sleepless nights after youth in the area accused her of engaging in grand corruption in her office. The legislature is also accused of employing her last-born brother and nephew in her office while her daughter works as her Personal Assistant. It is believed that the vocal woman is eyeing a top county position though her colleagues in Parliament view her as a lone ranger and are wondering how she will pull through after sacking almost the entire team that worked for her during the last general elections. A wealthy MP from the Coast region has vowed that envious colleagues from the area will not deter him from going for a top county position in 2022. Sources told Corridors that MP vowed not to relent in financing local projects to popularise his candidature. At one point, the legislator is said to have stated that his rivals should know the amount of money that he has put aside for campaigns and perhaps only then, they would have an idea of what they are up against.