New Sofapaka goalkeeper Djehani N’guissan Yao has warned Harambee Stars to brace themselves for a tough Togo national team in the forthcoming 2021 Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers in November. Stars are placed in Pool ‘G’ of the qualifiers alongside record champions Egypt, Togo and Comoros and the Togolese shot-stopper has cautioned Kenya to prepare for a success-hungry side, raring to return to the continental scene after missing out in the last edition held in Egypt two months ago. Togo, who are under the tutelage of the experienced Claude le Roy, christened as the African White Witch Doctor, will visit Nairobi in November for the second qualifier match. The West Africans will be seeking a repeat of their last meeting, where they won 1-0 in Lome in 2012 . The match saw coach Francis Kimanzi receive a four-match ban for allegedly assaulting an official. Stars will play their opener away in Cairo in the same month. The towering gloveman, who played for the national junior sides, is among the 11 new players who joined Batoto Ba Mungu before the season started. “Kenya should prepare for a tough match against Togo in the qualifiers. I am not conversant with Kenyan football but after missing the recent Afcon finals, I can advise the Kenyan team to brace for a success-hungry team. The team is under an experienced coach, who has what it takes to steer us back to the continental scene. It’s not going to be easy even for Egypt as there are no underdogs in football nowadays.” Yao, who is touted as a replacement for Burundian goalkeeper, Justin Ndikumana, who left for Bandari exuded confidence that Le Roy will still consider their all-time top scorer and skipper Emmanuel Adebayor for the qualifiers. The former Arsenal and Manchester City ace recently signed a one-year deal with Turkey’s Kayserispor . “Adebayor has a lot to offer to the national team and his presence brings fear to opponents. I think the coach will still consider him for the qualifiers. It will be difficult for opponents to stop him,” said Yao. The goalkeeper, who had brief stints in Qatar and Nigeria in 2016 and 2017 said he would easily fill in Ndikumana’s shoes despite the competition from Richard Aimo and Isaiah Wakasala. Ndikumana, who played 24 matches kept 13 clean-sheets last season and was named the second best goalkeeper during the LG/Sports Journalists Association of Kenya (SJAK) end of season awards. “I am here to work and I am sure I will not be starting from the bench. I am aware of the competition for playing time but I am ready to challenge the rest and always start ahead of them,” said Yao. “I am still learning English but that will not stop me from achieving my objectives.”