A Nairobi-based organisational psychologist has advised employees to embrace integrity and good morals at their working place. Ladan Ehsani urged them to focus not only on understanding their working environment but also practising core organisational values. “You should understand that positive culture in an organisation could only be built if every single person commits to practising the specified values every single day; starting with those in leadership roles, it is the responsibility of everyone,” she advised. Ehsani spoke to at least 600 employees of all levels who attended workshops in a Nairobi hotel on Monday. She has been practising as an independent organisational psychologist for the past 15 years. “When we develop new habits and integrity, it affects our attitude and the way we interact with others,” she said. She urged employees to admit mistakes as they are part of learning. She said embracing organisational values paves the way for a good working environment. “How we define our organisational values is also critical because our definitions will be based on the culture and history of our society. I remember visiting Romania in the early 1990s, after its fall from communism. The shop assistant made it clear that she was doing me a favour by assisting me- and she did not meet that favour to all,” the psychologist said. She advised that integrity, honesty and embracing organisational values allow preservation of traditional practices. “We are currently living in a world where much of its traditionally held values are being quickly eroded. The light of morality has become dim all over the world and many people and organisations have lost clarity of vision and understanding of our fundamental human values. To many, this is a grey area. It is foggy," Ehsani said. She added, "Employees make assumptions that cutting corners is acceptable. With no clear standard of values, cutting corners can become more prevalent and more damaging as we saw in the Boeing Ethiopian plane that crashed a few months ago. Boeing compromised important research and safety issues in favour of greater profitability. The end result was a tragedy." The psychologist advised on the use of innovative performance management model and small groups as they help every employee to advance professionally. Edited by R.Wamochie