Kisumu traders whose stalls were built on AFC land at Jua Kali will now continue with their businesses until they are given alternative spaces within the next six months. They have heaved a sigh of relief after a week of intense anxiety. On September 13, they were given a seven-day notice by the management of the Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC) to vacate. The AFC said its the registered owner of Kisumu municipality Block 6/391. It accused the traders of encroachment, invasion and trespass. The traders had no alternative and their livelihoods were at stake. They were worried and wondered what the future held for them. But now their fears are no more. Governor Anyang' Nyong'o's administration is negotiating for their relocation in the next six months. The notice, which was to expire on Friday, will, therefore, not stand. “Inasmuch as I appreciate the sanctity of title ownership, I'm also cognisant of the social trauma and economic losses that such an action will bear on our people. I have, therefore, reached out to the management of AFC to stay that vacation and to sit with my team with a view to finding a suitable relocation site before moving them,” Nyong'o had said. On Thursday, a statement by the governor's press unit director Aloice Ager said Nyong'o had reached out to the AFC management and invited them for a meeting with a view to deferring the notice. “This meeting took place on Wednesday at the Governor's boardroom, bringing together top management from the AFC, the county leadership and the Railways ward representative,” Ager said. "The successful deliberations of these stakeholders resolved that the AFC will stay the vacation order for a period of six months to allow a structured and humane relocation of those traders”. The planned relocation came at a time many residents had lost their jobs following the destruction of their stalls and shops on Kenya Railways land. This was meant to pave the way for the upgrade of the Kisumu Port. The demolition caused an uproar but some residents supported it saying the project is crucial to the city's growth and expansion. The county government is currently completing phase one of a market next to Kenyatta Sports Ground. It will absorb 500 traders.  Those to benefit include 24 traders from Lwangni Beach, the 44 traders from Akamba and the traders around the triangle where the nonmotorised transport is being implemented. (Edited by F'Orieny)