 Governors Anne Waiguru and Charity Ngilu have dismissed critics of the devolved health function, saying the sick are better served by counties governments. The two spoke on Saturday during a tour of Lady Grig Maternity Hospital accompanied by Governor Hassan Joho. The Kirinyaga and Kitui governors commended Joho for upgrading the facility. They said more money should be sent to counties for health instead of being channelled to the Health ministry. “Health services are better in devolved units because they are closer to the grassroots people,” Waiguru said. Ngilu said the push to have the health function taken back to the national government is misplaced. “We have toured this facility and we have seen what devolution has done to the women of Mombasa and the entire Coast region. This is what we want to see across the country,” the Kitui governor said. The two, who were on their way to the Tononoka Embrace rally, said devolution has brought dignity to women through better health services. Taveta MP Naomi Shaban said Level Five hopsitals across the country should be given more funds because they give more services to poor Kenyan mothers. “President Uhuru should look into this issue more keenly,” she said. Murang’a woman representative Sabina Chege said the cancer centre at the Coast General hospital is a good example of how counties can partner with the private sector to improve health services. The women had toured the Bamburi Cement Cancer Centre at the Coast General Hospital, which has been built through a partnership with the Mombasa county government. She said breast, cervical and prostrate cancer are the most common forms of cancer in Mombasa county and the outreach program started by the county government is crucial to fighting the deadly disease. “Prevention is better than cure,” she said. Likoni MP Mishi Mboko said that is why it is crucial for the National Assembly members and Senators to come to an amicable agreement over the division of revenue. NA members and Senators are at crossroads over the amount of funds to be allocated to the counties from the national exchequer. While Senators insist counties should get Sh335 billion, the NA members say only Sh316 billion is enough. The impasse has led to several counties on the brink of shutting down while some county staff have already gone a month without pay. On Saturday, Ngilu said MPs, Senators and MCAs should benchmark with Mombasa county on matters health instead of wasting billions of shillings on trips abroad to benchmark. “We have a perfect example here,” she said.