Despite landing his maiden call up to the Harambee Stars team, the 2019 third-best defender of the season Brian Otieno is not anticipating for playing time against Uganda this weekend. Otieno was summoned to the team on Tuesday and the budding defender is hoping to start from the bench, owing to his inexperience at the international level. Stars are set to host Uganda Cranes on Sunday at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani in an international friendly ahead of the forthcoming 2021 Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers set to kick off in November. Otieno, who plies his trade with Bandari, was called up alongside national U-23 and Wazito defender Johnstone Omurwa to replace the injured Bernard Ochieng and Joseph Okumu who was left out to concentrate on club duties. Okumu, who played all the three Stars matches at the Africa Cup of Nations, joined Sweden’s IF Elfsborg last week and his omission is expected to give him time to muscle for a place in the first team in the new side. Otieno, who spend four years at Nzoia Sugar after his high school studies at Ambira Boys in 2013, switched to Bandari last year and was instrumental in the defence, which leaked in fewer goals after Gor Mahia and Sony Sugar. His stellar performance with the dockers paid dividends as coach Francis Kimanzi considered him for the Uganda assignment which will be his first since picking from his sacked boss Sebastien Migne. Otieno says he is not under pressure to break into the first team but he reckons that with time and consistency on the pitch, he will command a place in the star-studded centre half roles. “I am happy I made it to the national team for the first time. I never expected it but I am grateful to the technical bench for monitoring my progress and rewarding me with the cap. I am aware there are other senior and experienced defenders and I think I am not in a hurry to dislodge them. They have been there for a while and I think when time is ripe, I will have my chance.” At the same time, Bandari’s right back Amai Atariza who was also handed his first senior team call up reiterated his desire to impress in the match where he is likely to start by virtue of being the sole natural right back in the team. Atariza, commonly known as Nicholas Mejja, was part of the U-23 team which played two friendly matches against Uzbekistan last year. Other new faces in the team are Collins Agade of Bandari, Moses Mudavadi who plies his trade with Kakamega Homeboyz, Tusker left-back Hillary Wandera and Samuel Olwande of Sharks. “I am happy that I was elevated to the senior team and I am seeking to give my best in a friendly match.” Meanwhile, Stars hit-man Michael Olunga jetted in yesterday from Japan while Chinese-based winger Ayub Timbe was expected yesterday evening. Squad—Goalkeepers: Patrick Matasi (St. George), John Oyemba (Sharks), Farouk Shikalo (Yanga); Defenders: Johnstone Omurwa (Wazito), Evans Kibwage (KCB), Joash Onyango (Gor), Brian Otieno (Bandari), Hillary Wandera (Tusker), Erick Ouma (Vasalunds), Amai Atariza (Bandari), Samuel Olwande (Sharks); Midfielders: Francis Kahata (Simba), Boniface Muchiri (Tusker), Kenneth Muguna (Gor Mahia), Duke Abuya (Kariobangi Sharks), Collins Agade (Bandari), Cliffton Miheso (Gor Mahia), Lawrence Juma (Gor Mahia), Ayub Timbe (Beijing Renhe), Cliff Nyakeya (FC Masr), Erick Johanna Omondi (IF Brommapojkarma), Moses Mudavadi (Kakamega Homeboyz) and Whyvone Isuza (AFC Leopards); Forwards: Michael Olunga (Kashiwa Reysol, Japan), Jesse Were (Zesco United, Zambia), Enosh Ochieng (Ulinzi Stars)