The DPP will seek a review of a ruling barring it from using certain documents as evidence in the Sh213 million graft case facing former Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero and eight others. Prosecution counsel Riungu Gitonga on Thursday informed the court they are in the process of filing the review before the High court but added that the case should proceed. But the defence team, led by lawyers Tom Ojienda and Philip Nyachoti, wanted the hearing adjourned to allow them to file documents and have evidence tendered by one of the witnesses expunged from court records. Anti-corruption magistrate Douglas Ogoti had on Monday barred the DPP from using evidence obtained from the Cooperative Bank in relation to the graft case. Ogoti said it was clear that the said documents were not supplied to the defence but somehow appeared in court. The magistrate also declined to expunge evidence tendered by one Charity William, a former employee of the bank. Yesterday, Kidero’s defence team urged the court to give them time to argue why the evidence should be expunged. But Ogoti said he had made his finding on the matter and if the accused persons were dissatisfied, they should file an appeal. “Allowing the prayer by the defence team would be tantamount to sitting on my own decision, as an appeal court. Let the parties appeal if they are not satisfied with the ruling,” he said. In the case, the former county chief has been charged together with former senior officers in his administration over the alleged loss of Sh213 million. The others are former county secretary Lilian Ndegwa, former chief finance officer Jimmy Kiamba, former Finance and Planning executive Gregory Mwakanongo, former accounting head Stephen Ogago Osiro, former acting chief finance officer Luke Mugo and former acting head of treasury Maurice Ochieng Okere. John Githua and Grace Njeri of Lodwar Wholesalers Ltd and Ngurumani Traders Ltd are accused of fraudulently receiving payments from the county government. They have denied a total of 35 counts. The trial will resume on Monday next week. (Edited by F'Orieny)