Nairobi Stima, Bidco United, Nairobi City Stars and Ushuru hope to maintain their unbeaten run as the Football Kenya Federation (FKF) National Super League enters week three this weekend. Log leaders Nairobi Stima will be at Kericho Green Stadium, where they face newly-promoted Administration Police Service (APS) Bomet. APS are chasing their first points in the league and will be keen to stop the log leaders. Last weekend, APS lost 2-0 to Ushuru. "We are going for nothing less than a win. The boys will fight for maximum points because we lost our opening game,” said APS coach Sebastian Owino. Ushuru and APS Bomet face-off with Ruaraka Sports Club while Nairobi City Stars who were recently acquired by the Jonathan Jackson Foundation, have a tricky encounter against Vihiga United. City Stars, under coach Sanjin Alagic from Bosnia Herzegovina, are hoping to return to the top-flight league and very much will rely on Gambian Ebrahima Sanne who has so far scored three goals in two matches. Meanwhile, Thika Sub County Stadium will host two other matches that will aired live on free to air Bamba Sports. Bidco United host FC Talanta in the first match before newbies Murang’a Seal and Vihiga Bullets square it out in the second match. Vihiga Bullet, under coach Edward Manoah, will be seeking their first points of the season. Cash-strapped former giants Shabana face Modern Coast Rangers at Serani grounds.  Coach Gilbert Selebwa is confident the team will pick three points against Rangers. Shabana beat Muranga Seal 1-0 last weekend at Gusii Stadium. St. Joseph's Youth welcome Kibera Black Stars at Afraha Stadium in Nakuru while Kenya Police will be up against Fortune Sacco at Karuturi Sports ground. Northern Wanderers' host Mt. Kenya United at Camp Toyoyo. Meanwhile,  Migori Youth have unveiled a new technical bench headed by former Sony player Robert Ojienda. Former Gor Mahia player Kevin Oluoch will serve as an assistant coach while Sammy Oremo will be the second assistant. Shem Wema is the new team manager. Ojienda replaces Robert Aol who has left the club. “We are optimistic they will help the club achieve their objectives of building young players and expose them in the National Super League,” said a statement from the club. After two consecutive losses, Migori Youth will hope to bounce back when the youthful side hosts Paul Ogai's Coast Stima at Awendo Stadium today. Migori Youth lost their opening game 3-1 against Vihiga United and succumbed to a 2-0 loss against Bidco United last Sunday.