Universal Health Care will only be realised if the government invests in the training of clinical officers, a medic has said. Dr Joseph Kweri from JKUAT yesterday said human resource is key in the delivery of an efficient health care system. Kweri spoke during a conference for clinical officers at KICC in Nairobi. The medic, who heads the department of Human Anatomy at the JKUAT’s School of Medicine has come up with a model to ensure the success of UHC. Dubbed ‘Amua Afya Bora Mashinani’, the system recognises primary healthcare and seeks to support both county and national governments to accelerate the attainment of sustainable UHC programme. Kweri said the low healthcare worker to patient ratio must be addressed for UHC to succeed. He proposed that clinical officers be trained and equipped to handle simple medical conditions at dispensary levels. He also called for the promotion of healthcare entrepreneurship to grassroots level. "This will increase use of diagnostic equipment and accessibility to essential medicines to communities with ultimate improvements of treatment outcomes," Kweri said. The don wants tele-medicine and e-health promoted through the use of an app through which interested clinical officers can log in and attend to patients. "These measures will reduce pressure on level 4, 5 and 6 health facilities and streamline the referral system." Currently, Kenya has a doctor to patient ratio of 1:17,000 while clinical officer to patient ratio stands at 1:14,000. There is only one nurse for 4,000 patients. The World Health Organisation recommends one doctor to 1,000 patients and one clinical officer to 1,500 patients with one nurse handling 2,000 patients at most. “Health is a moral obligation. No member of the society should face death, disability, ill health from disease while UHC is the only way to guarantee health access to communities,” the medic said. Kenya healthcare system has deficit of about 350,000 health care personnel and a quick lasting solution needs to be developed, he said. Kweri has presented his proposal to the Health Ministry and is awaiting the way forward. The UHC programme which was launched as a pilot in Nyeri, Kisumu, Isiolo and Machakos counties by President Uhuru Kenyatta in December last year is in its ninth month.  edited by peter obuya