While in the United States, Daniel Wahome worked hard and saved cash with the intentions of purchasing a plot in Ngong town. However, the dream was shattered by a conman who swindled him of millions of shillings. His two siblings Margret Nyamu and the late Angela Nyamu coordinated the purchase. They introduced him to a friend George Ngata who later linked them to John Njoroge who claimed he was disposing of a plot in Ngong Njoroge worked tirelessly to prove to them that he was in a position to sell them the quarter-acre piece of land. “Njoroge showed them a certain plot and they settled on Sh2.3 million payment,” Nyamu told  Kibera magistrate Jane Kamau. Nyamu also narrated to court that, since their brother was in a hurry to go back to the US they decided to use a joint account with her dead sister Angela. They agreed that once their brother sent the money, they would deposit the money to Njoroge's account for the purchase of land. Their brother, Wahome, went back to the US and promised to channel the money to their account to pay for the plot. But before he left, Wahome signed a sale agreement with the Njoroge on June 12, 2012, and a deposit of Sh200,000 made in an account at Equity Bank Ngong Road branch. The agreement was overseen by a senior city lawyer and Wahome was supplied with the documents. The activities were contacted on November 15, 2013, at Ngong township within Kajiado county where the accused person obtained a total of Sh2.3million from them. A land estate agent told the court that he was one of the directors of Kawangware Cinema and that the piece of land that was subdivided to create  Ngong/Ngong/26139 and Ngong/Ngong/26140 belonged to the company. No documents were produced to prove the claim. Another witness confirmed that the accused signed the document with the complainant and the transactions took place. Immediately after the transaction, Njoroge promised to help the buyers get any assistance they needed. He gave them some land documents to prove that he had handed the land to them and were the new owners. But when they took it to the Lands ministry in Kajiado, they were declined and they decided to report the matter to the police, leading to Njoroge's arrest. On Friday Kibera Senior Resident Magistrate Jane Kamau ruled that Njoroge was guilty of the offence. Kamau said that the nature in which the money was taken from the complainant was questionable and that the prosecution proved the case against the accused person. “I have therefore considered both the prosecution and the defence hearing, I found that the prosecution proved the case against the accused person and I send him to seven years in jail,” Kamau said. She gave him 14 days to appeal.