Elgeyo Marakwet MCAs have cautioned Governor Alex Tolgos to stop intimidating them. The MCAs have also denied being beneficiaries of money allegedly stolen in the Arror and Kimwarer dam projects as claimed by the governor three weeks ago. Tolgos had claimed part of the money stolen in the dams scandal was being used to fight him and finance an impeachment motion against him at the county assembly. In a statement, he claimed Senator Kipchumba Murkomen was behind the impeachment plot. But the assembly members accused him of failing the county. "Tolgos should stop diversionary tactics and deal with the problems he has created in the county, including the current budget crisis," said deputy speaker Christopher Chemosong, who also the Arror MCA. Chemosong was named by the governor as the one who would be used to table the impeachment motion but speaking in Iten alongside other MCAs, he accused Tolgos of shadow-fighting himself and blaming other people for self-inflicted problems. "Let him not try to intimidate us and think he will stop the assembly from performing its oversight role," he said, urging Tolgos to record a statement with Directorate of Criminal Investigations if he had details on how the dams money was stolen and how it was being used to undermine him. MCA Paul Kipyatich said the governor had mismanaged the county and should not blame the assembly for his own failures. Senator Murkomen has also denied claims that he was planning to push for the impeachment of the governor. He said even though they do not agree, he does not believe removing the county boss will be a solution to any problem in the county. "The governor should instead build bridges with the MCAs and dialogue with them. I'm ready to help in such a process," he said. A stalemate over the county's 2019-20 budget persists, with efforts to have the MCAs and the governor meet turning futile in the last two weeks. Tolgos had wanted the assembly to cut down its own Sh566 million allocation so part of the money is used to finance the Sh200 million budget deficit. However, the MCAs rejected his request, accusing the county boss of hiring ghost workers, who, they said, are to blame for the budget crisis. A month ago, the county chief declared a budget crisis in the county and invited the Senate, the Commission on Revenue Allocation, the Controller of Budget and members of the public to intervene and help resolve the row. In the last three weeks, however, mediation efforts have failed, as both Tolgos and the MCAs took hardline positions. (Edited by F'Orieny)