More than 54,000 Kwale schoolgirls will soon be without sanitary pads if the national fails to supply them. Recently, a 14-year-old girl at Kabiangek Primary School in Bomet county committed suicide after a teacher ridiculed her for soiling her dress — it was her first period. The suicide has generated controversy about where National Affirmative Action Fund (NGAAF) money goes. County NGAAF Coordinator Victor Nyanje told the Star they have only 460 packages of sanitary pads that they will distribute at schools' request. “Last year, we received around 219, 900 pads and supplied them. What we have is the extra, but not plenty," he said. "That's why we agreed we will  distribute to institutions that need them most." Nyanje said no new stock has arrived and they are still waiting for communication from the Ministry of Public Service, Youth, and Gender. He said if the situation persists, girl's education will be undermined. “The majority of Kwale's population is living in poverty. In places like Kinango, some parents can't afford even Sh60 to buy sanitary towels for their children. The little they get is hand to mouth," Nyanje said He said the free sanitary towel programme relieves families of one burden. "If the programme does not continue, performance will drop since during menstruation many girls will be forced to stay at home." Supply should be a continuous process, "meaning relevant authorities should sort out whatever is making this programme not a success." In June 2017, President Uhuru Kenyatta signed the Basic Education Amendment Act requiring the state to provide free sanitary pads to all needy girls. There are reports that the program was returned to the Ministry of Education but there is no confirmation, Nyanje said. Menstrual Hygiene Management (MHM) Instructor Amina Faki said they are trying hard to intervene until the national government gives directives. The MHM is a foundation started by the Kwale governor's wife, Christine Mvurya, in partnership with the county government. Faki said they have been distributing sanitary towels in Matuga, Kinango and Lunga Lunga subcounties,targeting150 girls per school. "At this moment, be it a father or mother, they should understand challenges that girls go through and include them in their budgets. "Otherwise, men will take advantage. They will buy for them and in the end, the results will be catastrophic,” Faki said. She referred to men who buy sanitary pads for girls in exchange for sex. (Edited by V. Graham) 