Deputy President William Ruto yesterday said he will continue “kutanga tanga (to loiter)” because that is the work of a deputy president. Ruto’s sentiments came after the Interior Principal Secretary Karanja Kibicho cautioned him against causing confusion in Kirinyaga County. Kibicho accused Ruto of taking advantage of projects to disrespect the president. But Ruto said he was President Uhuru Kenyatta’s right-hand man and would continue to tour the country to ensure all government projects are in progress. Ruto spoke in Dandora where he donated Sh1.5 million to Tom Mboya School for the replacement of sewer lines. He also promised to replace asbestos roofs which were worn out and donated another Sh1 million for the construction of a new kitchen in the school. "This is my work to ensure that all projects of the government are in place,” he said. The DP said the government will use approximately Sh18 billion for water projects and improvement of sewerage systems in Nairobi County as part of the country’s infrastructural development. He said when more people get access to water, it would spur the country’s economic growth. Ruto toured the Dandora slum where he inspected the construction work on the Eastern Transmission (Kiambu-Embakasi) pipeline. He said efforts were being made to ensure equitable water supply to the city residents. “Provision of water remains key to the promotion of sustainable socio-economic development and contribute to poverty reduction. As Jubilee we are committed to ensuring equitable water supply in all parts of Nairobi as part of our infrastructural development in the country,” he said. The project, which will cost Sh2.1 billion, will upon completion benefit an estimated one million people. The Deputy President said the Government has invested heavily in technical education to attain the country’s technological needs in ‘this 21st century’. Ruto urged the youth to take advantage of the bursaries offered by the government to access education. He said Nairobi County has more than 10 technical training institutes well equipped and fully operational. He urged parents to take advantage of such facilities to enroll their children.