A Nanyuki court yesterday heard of how a 15-year-old girl hid her pregnancy for five months for fear of being killed by her stepfather who had allegedly defiled her. He allegedly threatened to kill her if she dared reveal what happened to others. The man has been charged that between April and September last year, he defiled a 15-year-old girl at his home in Magutu village, Laikipia East. He has denied the accusations, claiming he was being framed by his wife and his brother-in-law so they can take ownership of his land. But the child's mother told the court she noticed that her daughter had an “unusual bulge" on her tummy. When she prodded her, she said she had been defiled by the stepfather months earlier when the mother had left home for a hospital. “My daughter told me that while I was away at the hospital, her father sent the girl’s younger siblings to go fetch water at a nearby river and when they left, he dragged the teen into the house and defiled her, then warned her against revealing the act to anyone or else he would kill her,” the mother of eight told the court amid sobs. During cross-examination, the man told resident magistrate Vincent Masivo he had no reason to defile his stepdaughter, yet he treated her as his child despite not being her biological father. “I've been educating all the eight children without discrimination, despite the fact that only three are my biological children. There's no way I would think of committing such an act with my daughter. This is pure fabrication," he said. The court heard that the teen later gave birth to a preterm baby who later died at the Nanyuki Teaching and Referral Hospital. She is currently undergoing counselling sessions to help her cope with what she allegedly went through. The mother informed the court she reported the matter to the police, who later arrested the suspect and launched investigations, with DNA samples taken from him and the infant to ascertain paternity in the case. The hearing continues. (Edited by F'Orieny)