Transporters have threatened to hold weekly protests and ‘paralyse Mombasa’ if the government fails to hold fresh talks over the SGR transportation deal. The government last month directed that all cargo consignments from Mombasa port destined for Nairobi must be transported by train, locking out road truckers. Consequently, thousands of workers have lost jobs and their families are living in misery. Businessmen, long-distance truck drivers, Container Freight Stations workers, clearing and forwarding agents, clerks, casual labourers in container transportation chains have in the past held numerous press conferences protesting the move by the government to monopolise the SGR. Workers have now threatened with consistent protests in an attempt to force the government to reverse the directive. The protesters head to Miritini SGR Terminal on Monday, next week, where they have vowed to stop business. Under the First Action Business Community Group, the protesters began their protests last Monday, demos that caused heavy traffic along the busy Makupa causeway. “We have been players for a long time and we don’t understand why the government went ahead to implement these policies without considering our input,” FABC interim chairperson Benard Simiyu told the Star yesterday. He said the trucks remain the cheapest and faster way to transport containers from the port because they deliver to the "client's doorstep". “The container will take four hours via SGR to Nairobi. But the owner has to move his goods to the final destination which is costly and time-consuming in the long run,” he said. The transporters now want a meeting with Transport CS James Macharia, KPA's top management and the KRA top brass. A random check at many CFSs in Mombasa West show empty yards with only a few trucks and gatemen manning premises, which is a contrast of what was the case before the SGR. “We don’t want to be made beggars. We want to work with our own hands,” he said. They are also against the plan to build an inland container depot in Naivasha, saying the town’s economy is already supported by the flower business, while Mombasa mainly relies on transportation of cargo. A report by the University of Nairobi earlier this month showed that more than 60 per cent of CFSs employees have been sacked, while the state lost more than Sh126 billion in revenue in one year from Mombasa since the introduction of freight trains. While anti-riot police who followed the protesters kept a distance, it remains uncertain whether next weeks' protests will be peaceful. If the Mombasa protesters live up to their threat to go the Hong Kong way, then,  it will be violent and go on for days, weeks, maybe months.