Leaders from Kisumu are on spot for failing to address the plight of hundreds of traders whose shops were demolished. Transform Empowerment for Action Initiative (TEAM) executive director George Owuor said leaders have completely avoided the demolition issue yet traders are suffering. Owuor on Sunday questioned the loud silence of county elected leaders on the demolition, which displaced hundreds of traders. He said they are a letdown to voters for failing to effectively represent and protect their well-being. “It is unfortunate that not a single leader has talked about the matter yet [traders] are languishing in poverty after their livelihoods were destroyed,” Owuor said. He said many people have been rendered jobless as they lack space to do business. Traders lost property worth millions of shillings. The buildings and shops erected on Kenya Railways Corporation (KRC) land within city centre have all been brought down, leaving hundreds of traders counting huge losses. Owuor condemned the manner in which the structures were brought down, before proper plans to allocate traders alternative space. “Some risk being bankrupt as they have huge loans to pay,” he said. Owuor urged Governor Anyang Nyong’o to publicly provide the list of traders who are set to benefit from the stalls being constructed for accountability purposes. Some of the places that have been demolished are Lwang’ni beach eateries, Akamba lane shops, Winmart business shops, Tilapia beach and part of Lake market. Other temporary structures along the streets within the central business district have also been brought down. Nyong'o has defended the eviction of hawkers from the CBD ahead of Africities summit in 2021. He said the county had secured 23 acres from Kenya Railways for the establishment of a market. Nyong’o recently said the relocation was aimed at sanitising growth, noting that hawkers are on the streets due to lack of proper establishments for their operation. The demolitions are meant to kick out those who have encroached on the KRC land and open the lake-front for the operationalisation of the newly revived Sh3 billion Kisumu port. It is also aimed at removing temporary structures from the streets for the beautification of the city. Kenya National Chamber of Commerce-Kisumu Branch Chairman Israel Agina said more than 3, 000 businessmen have been affected. He said 2, 000 people who were employed directly and indirectly by the establishments have been rendered jobless. Traders at the Winmart Business Centre are crying foul with some lamenting that the notice issued to them had not expired. 