What we have noticed from Auditor General’s reports is that, while they give key recommendations, most of them are not taken up by both the investigative agencies and the parliamentary committee that is supposed to look at them. The first recipients of these reports are the internal audit teams, even before they get to Parliament. These teams should have some level of independence in terms of their composition. They should look at these reports first and address the audit queries before they get to parliament. But, we have seen that most internal audit teams are weak in terms of staffing and the small budgets give them little room to function. So, for the government to address these recurring audit issues, they need to hire the right number of competent professionals and finance them well. Secondly, it will depend on how these reports are taken on board by Parliament through the Public Accounts Committee. The PAC sometimes does not look at the audit reports of all these public entities. I think Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi’s team [PAC chaired by Wandayi] has tried to look at these reports, but it is also going through frustrations in that their recommendations are not being taken on board by the government. So, for me, the way that PAC can actually ensure that its recommendations are implemented is by ensuring that these institutions do not get more money as they ought to. The constitution says that any public entity that has gotten a bad audit report, particularly the worst – the disclaimer, should actually be given only 50 per cent of its budget. But what we have noticed is that the same entities with bad reports continue being given the same or even more. So, obviously there is no motivation to look at the efficiency and prudent utilization of public money. In summary, for us to address these problems, the internal audit controls should be strengthened and the PAC should recommend to the Budget and Appropriations Committee that public entities with bad audit reports should get less money. The National Taxpayers’ Association National Coordinator spoke to the Star on phone