 The Mulembe nation has been commended for their full participation in the just-concluded national census. In Bungoma 99 per cent of the residents had been counted by Saturday morning while Trans Nzoia had reported a 98.9 per cent headcount, Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa said. Wamalwa, who spoke on Saturday during a thanksgiving ceremony for retired senior chief David Namtali of Kimilili, Bungoma, said the exercise was smooth across the country. "I have been on an assessment mission in Baringo, Busia, West Pokot, Trans Nzoia and other counties and I am impressed by the work of the enumerators," he said. He said the census will show that the Luhya have the numbers to guarantee one of their own tenancy at State House to complete the journey the Mulembe forefathers started decades ago. "With the numbers that we have seen from the turnout in Vihiga, Busia, Kakamega, Bungoma and Trans Nzoia we believe that the journey that Masinde Muliro, Kijana Wamalwa, Moody Awuor tried but didn’t complete will be accomplished," he said. A Luhya, according to him, will succeed Uhuru Kenyatta in 2022 as they will be the largest community by numbers in the country. He regretted that the Luhya vote was low and called on leaders to engage on a sensitisation campaign on the need for people to acquire ID and voters' cards. He gave the example of Bungoma, which has 600,000 registered voters, adding that the figure should be 1,000,000 mark by 2022. The CS called on the administration, especially chiefs and their assistants, to assist the youths to acquire identity and voter registration cards. He said he, Ford Kenya party leader Moses Wetang'ula and ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi had reconciled in the spirit of the handshake. Wamalwa said Uhuru's recent remark that it's only God who knows who will be Kenya's next president was an indication that he did not have a preference on who will succeed him. He said that Uhuru said recently that whoever will be a president after him will come as a shocker to many and asked residents to interpret what the president meant. He urged chiefs to emulate Namtali, who had provided exemplary service for 38 years. Present at the function was Kimilili MP Didmus Barasa, Bungoma Agriculture CEC Chirasha Makanda, Health chief officer Patrick Wandili, Kimilili ward MCA David Barasa and Trans Nzoia speaker Joash Werunga.