Kenya and Tunisia will be the top-seeded teams at the next week's Davis Cup Africa Group 3 tournament slated for the Nairobi Club. Tunisia are the highest seeded team in the week-long competition at position 70 with Kenya ranked at 76. Benin are placed 80th with Namibia ranked 91st. Others are as follows Nigeria (88th), Algeria (90), Mozambique (105) and Madagascar (1110. The event will be played on round-robin format for three days with playoff ties on the fourth day. Two pools of four teams will be drawn in a World Cup (round robin) format, where all teams in each pool facing each other to decide the top two. The winners and runners up of Pool A and B will then face off in a decider with the two winners earning promotion to the Euro/ Africa Group II playoffs. The pooling will be done on Monday. Last year, Kenya qualified to Group II alongside Namibia after winning the Group 3 on home soil but with new rules at the Annual General Meeting in the United States, the win was nullified. The ITF AGM last years adopted a new ranking system after a new sponsor, Kosmo, an investment firm owned by FC Barcelona and Spain defender Gerard Pique, signed a deal worth US$30 billion (Sh300 billion) covering 25 years. The new rankings were backdated to four years ago and as a result, Kenya dropped to 13th in the Euro/Africa Group II where 12 countries were picked. Kenya was ranked 76th in the world by the end of last year. Head coach Rosemary Owino was hopeful of Kenya gaining promotion to Group 2 following the extensive training the team had in Valencia, Spain and the Africa Games in Morocco last month. “ The team had a good training session in Spain and playing in the All Africa Games has aided their preparation and we are looking forward to the team being competitive,” added Owino. Owino said home advantage will be key for the team. “We are asking all the fans to turn up in large numbers like they did last year and cheer the team to victory. The Davis Cup team has the likes of Ismael Changawa, Sheil Kotecha, Albert Njogu, Ryan Randiek, and Kevin Cheruiyot.