A tweet by the Kenya Ferry Service, hours after a car with two occupants plunged into the Indian Ocean at the Likoni ferry has stirred social media uproar. In a tweet on Monday, KFS notified the public that they will be serving them with four ferries at the Likoni Channel. They went ahead and wished Kenyans a lovely day. "Good morning, We are serving you with four ferries at the Likoni channel and one at the Mtongwe channel. We wish you a blessed and fruitful day,"read the tweet. Netizens were irked by Kenya Ferry's post terming the institution as inhumane for ignoring the tragedy. Twitter user Nkuru Nzizah said, "Even after yesterday's tragedy?? No grieving for you? You're redefining arrogance and PR nightmare." "Wish you told us that we are absolutely sure your day may not end well since we are serving you with four graves.Choose the best grave for yourself,"Erick Atitwa said. "It's purely unacceptable and heartbreaking to see our fellow suffering taxpayers that pay for your salaries to keep your jobs at KFS plunge Into the deep ocean without help. In the 21st century, this is total nonsense," Mirerah George said. Kenyans have questioned the safety of the ferry system and  called upon stringent regulations to curb future incidences. "1. No screening of persons & vehicles 2. No safety instructions are announced, should happen like on flight 3. Passengers & vehicles should not be allowed close to the deck that should have some protection like a barrier chain 4. Fire," Punda Amechoka wondered. "What happened at Likoni Ferry is uncalled for. This wasn't meant to happen the 21st century. Somebody must be sleeping at his job," Daniel Omondi said. Dennis Kiplimo said "This is 2019 and we still living like we're in the 18th Century. What happened at Likoni Ferry is very disgusting. I mean, we shouldn't have lost a life here." "Sad that Kenya is never prepared for disasters during any crisis.This Likoni Ferry accident was inevitable considering how they pack ferries.Worse is after the rescue team arrived they didn't attempt to do anything. Thought divers would jump in lakini they were just there to tour," Nair Kenya said. In July this year, a driver and his turn-boy escaped unhurt as their canter plunged into the Indian Ocean after having a complication during disembarking. A canter ferrying Taifa Unga maize flour failed to climb uphill on the Likoni mainland ramp and instead slipped into the Indian Ocean. Confirming the incident, a source from the Kenya Ferry Services who did not want to be named told the Star the driver of the Canter and his conductor escaped unhurt. The driver, Salim Musa, said the vehicle breaks failed while attempting to climb the steep ramp at the channel.