Nairobi county has ordered the immediate closure of 15 slaughterhouses operating at Kiamaiko without licenses and proper sanitation. In an inspection on Monday, the county also discovered that besides the 15 abattoirs, there were 14 structures used illegally for meat storage. They were unsanitary, had illegal water connections and were closed immediately. Fifteen people were arrested in connection with the storage structures. The arrests were made on Monday and Tuesday morning. On Monday a joint inspection operation was carried out by the county departments of Environment, Health, Agriculture, Water and Planning and MCAs from related committees. The officials carried out the operation in response to a question by nominated MCA Kabiro Mbugua who asked whether Kiamaiko had complied with sanitation standards. Health executive Mohammed Dagane said the illegal storage structures were located between residences. "It is very shocking to find meat storage strucures operating between homes. On the ground floor is meat storage and the above floors are houses. They have even connected water and power illegally,” he said. The illegal storage structures had been closed with padlocks, a possible indication the owners had been alerted to the raids.  County enforcement officers broke in. Six people were arrested on Monday. They were arraigned for violating the Public Health Act. Nine people were arrested on Tuesday. POOR SANITATION In the storage structures, pieces of meat were on the floor, which could cause cholera, especially in informal settlements. "They are doing their business of washing the meat inside the structures on the floor — that is what basically ends up in our stomachs. This is very unhygienic and not allowed," Dasgane told reporters who were present for the raids.  The county officials found meat stored in buckets next to bottles of an unidentified coloured liquid suspected to be a preservative. "It was very strange that in those illegal abattoirs there were no flies nor smell of meat which makes us suspect they use preservatives in the meat. We have carried samples for testing to establish what type of fluid it is " Dagane said. ILLEGAL WATER CONNECTION During the raid, officials discovered illegal water connections to the 14 structures. Executive for Environment and Water Vesca Kangogo said Nairobi is losing water and revenue due to such connections. "The water pumps in those structures are pulling water from upstream coming down and there are no taps to regulate water flow, meaning they operate 24 hours. The pipes are connected through the walls and this also means that they are not being billed," she said. In January this year the city Water Department said Nairobi is losing Sh3.7 billion per year as a result of non-revenue water — about 40 per cent of the total water supply. Non-revenue water is produced but ‘lost’ through leakage or theft before it reaches the customer. Chairman of the Water and Sanitation Committee Paul Kados said the National Environment Management Authority (Nema) was sleeping on the job. "I warn Nema because it is charged by the national government with the responsibility to oversee such issues. But Nema gave licenses to continue operating in such environment and conditions, which is against the law," he said. In April 2018 Nema had closed all slaughterhouses in Kiamaiko for not complying with health regulations but they later reopened. They lacked pre-treatment facilities and channelled waste directly into the Nairobi River. A report by Nema to the Water and Sanitation committee said it had given Kiamaiko businesses nine months from December 2018 to relocate to their new slaughterhouses in Njiru. Chairman of the Health Committee Peter Warutere urged the county to ensure residents get clean water and meat. "We have a responsibility to ensure that Nairobi gets adequate clean water and food but we have people who are sabotaging this process and instead are looking for economic benefits," he said. Nominated MCA Leah Naikane said that the committees involved will pursue the issue "to the letter" until Kiamaiko meets the required standards and relocates to Njiru. Veterinary Services director Muhari Muriithi earlier said that the slaughterhouses cannot be improved and brought up to sanitation standards and the only option is for them to be relocated. (Edited by V.Graham) 