A man on Friday killed his two sons aged seven and nine years and then committed suicide in Nyakiambi location in Nyandarua county. Kelvin Wambui, a boda boda rider, hacked Morgan Ng’ang’a and Brian Macharia using a panga before hanging himself from the roof of his house. The three bodies were discovered in his house on Friday evening. In a suicide note, Wambui said he acted because his father-in-law had taken away his wife, Teresia Nyakinyua, two years ago. Mirangine subcounty police commander, Eric Ogwuari, confirmed the incident. He said he could not reveal much about the suicide note as it constituted evidence in the ongoing investigations. “We may not reveal much but what is there is that he was found dead inside his house. He killed the two boys with a panga before hanging himself,” Ogwuari said. Wambui’s mother, Margaret Wokabi, said she did not find the children when she came from the garden at 2pm but thought they were playing in the neighbourhood where she had left them. It began to rain and she went to look for them. When she couldn't find them, she concluded they could be asleep. “But when I checked they were not where they sleep either. I went to my son’s house but it was locked from the inside, and he did not answer when I called him. The radio was on,” she said She called her brother Josphat Mugo who broke a window and pulled back the curtain. They saw Wambui's body dangling from the roof in his sitting room. They reported to Mirangine police station and officers broke the door to access the house. Once inside, they found the two boys placed on the sofa just below their hanging father. Wokabi and her brother said the children could have been killed while asleep since the bed was soaked in blood. Wokabi said for the last two months her son appeared to have some problems, although he did not reveal much. He would wake up as late as 1pm and had lost interest in work. Sometimes he would appear confused or behave like someone under the influence of alcohol. Recently, he cut his foot-long dreadlocks using a panga, saying they symbolised the problems he has been undergoing. Wambui's uncle Josphat Mugo said the young man's problems started four years ago when his first wife left him. He was a stepfather to one of the killed children, Ng’ang’a. The boy came with his first wife, Mary, who left him following a domestic misunderstanding. A year after Mary left, he cohabited with Teresia Nyakinyua and were blessed with a son. In 2018, Nyakinyua returned to her parents’ home after Wambui injured her with a knife and threatened to kill her.  She was taken to hospital where she was attended to. After failed attempts to reunite, Nyakinyua was employed in a food kiosk at Mwisho wa Rami, just about a kilometre from Wambui’s home. She said he used to take his meals at the establishment and leave. “But recently he started to threaten me again saying he would kill me. We reported the matter to Mirangine police station but no step was taken,” she said. On Tuesday, she said, he went to her workplace with a knife, but she managed to escape and report the matter to Mirangine police station where he was summoned to appear on Friday. On Friday morning she returned again to her place of work where he told her that “one of us must be buried under the soil”. She received the news of the murder-suicide later in the evening. Nyakinyua’s father said three days to the incident he spoke with his son-in-law but he told me “his days in this earth have come to an end”. He said the police, did nothing when he reported Wambui's comments. Wambui was a founder member and the vice-chairman of Mwisho Wa Rami Boda Boda Association. (edited by O. Owino)