The management of Consolata School in Westlands was on Monday held up in a closed-door meeting with the DCI over a viral video. The DCI detectives from the Children's Department arrived at the school mid-morning following the circulation of a video in which a standard seven pupil, using vulgar language, threatened to kill a standard four pupil. In the video that has gone viral on social media, the class seven boy is heard saying the class four pupil had accused him of being gay causing hatred between him, fellow pupils and teachers. When the Star arrived at the school, the reporter was informed of the headteacher was in a meeting with parents. A few minutes later, DCI detectives stormed the premises and made their way to the meeting room. Parents who spoke said they had gone to the school to demand an explanation on what had transpired. The boy later on posted another video apologising to the public. "All I need to say is that I am sorry and I know sorry can't take back my words. The things I have said are really hurting and I want to say sorry," he said. He added, "To the public,  to everyone, to the teachers and to Consolata school I am really sorry, I am asking you to forgive me because parents are saying they want me suspended from the school". Outspoken Suba North MP Millie Odhiambo asked Consolata School not to suspend the child in a Facebook post on Sunday evening. “Consolata School, please do not suspend him despite pressure from parents. He is a child in need of care and protection under the Children’s Act. Get him and the alleged bullying kids into counseling,” she wrote. Telling social media users to stop sharing the boy’s video, Millie Odhiambo blasted online critics for cyber-bullying the child. “I am sure if it was your child, you would wish the video is not shared. Let us not through eagerness to appear concerned harm that boy. What he did was wrong but he is a child. As an adult you are in effect turning to a cyber harasser of a kid,” she fired back at online commentators. Milly also urged the young boy’s parents to keep him off social networks, adding that the boy’s subsequent apology video was doing more harm than good. “As for the parent/s or guardian, get your child off social media. No need getting him to apologise to the public. You are making it worse,” the MP advised. She expressed hope that, with the right support, the Consolata boy could reform. “I wish him well. He is still evolving. With proper guidance, he will turn out alright.”