Tottenham manager Mauricio Pochettino tried to remain calm as his side lost their third match in a week. When Leicester City’s James Maddison fired in the winner at the weekend, I could see Pochettino’s shoulders drop because he knew that even Leicester are now above Spurs in the league table and his side are eighth and already ten points behind leaders Liverpool. More humiliation followed after being beaten by Colchester in the Carabao Cup — a team three divisions lower than Spurs! I have also been told that all is not well in the dressing room with players arguing amongst themselves, blaming each other and dividing into two camps. Combine that disharmony with news which reached me this week that Real Madrid are going to ask Christian Eriksen to sign a pre-contract stating that he would join them when he becomes available for free next summer. To make matters even worse, the Spanish giants might sack manager Zinedine Zidan and move for Mauricio Pochettino despite his contract which runs until 2023. Last week I wrote and told you of the philosophy behind Spurs not buying any new players because of their investment in the new state-of-art White Hart Lane stadium. Following the 2-1 loss to Leicester and previously surrendering a two-goal lead to Greek side Olympiacos in the Champions League, Pochettino was reflecting that he got three new players during the summer, Tanguy Ndombele, Ryan Sessognon and loan signing Giovani Lo Celso but he had actually asked for six new signings. Because of Pochettino’s disappointment and Spurs poor start to the season, Chief Executive Daniel Levy has told his manager that he will have money to spend on new talent when the January transfer window opens. The new stadium cost a staggering £1.2bn and Spurs borrowed £637m to pay for it. However, Levy met with American investors this week and has renegotiated the loan by turning it into bonds which raised £525m. Woodward and Jones clash over United Crisis never seems far away from Manchester United these days and despite manager Ole Gunner Solskjaer’s impressive start to his career at Old Trafford everything seems to be turning against him. Since the epic 3-1 win against PSG in the Champions League, Solkjaer’s managerial record reads win 5, draw 4 and losses 10. And in the Premier League this season the record is W4, D4, L7 which are almost relegation figures. In the 2-0 loss to West Ham, the Hammer’s fans were singing at Solskjaer. “You’re getting sacked in the morning” and a Twitter video went viral as someone spotted United defender Phil Jones in the executive box and he appeared to be muttering those words himself! United Executive Chairman Ed Woodward was furious, turned around and glared at Jones and appeared to shout, “Stop! We’re on camera.” Jagielka comes home a winner Over the last 12 years, Phil Jagielka has been an excellent servant to Everton. He made 385 appearances and scored 19 goals from the full-back position. Together with Leighton Baines, they were probably the best full-back partnership in the league for some years. On his last day at the club, he could not face going to the training ground to empty his locker. He rang the Everton staff kit man and asked him to collect up his boots and training kit and to meet him at the ground entrance. The hitman, Tony Sage, met Phil as arranged and handed over a big black rubbish bin bag stuffed with his playing kit and personal possessions. For 37-year-old Jagielka it was a sad way to leave a club where he had been a hero but at his age, he was lucky that Premier League side Sheffield United signed him and last Saturday, by a strange coincidence, it was Everton who were playing his new team at Goodison Park. When Jagielka ran onto the pitch Everton fans erupted in applause as they clapped a true giant of the club. Sheffield United are in fact the team that Jagielka supported as a boy and were always his first love and what happened? The record books will always record that Sheffield won 2-0 so Phil came home a winner and was cheered by both sets of fans. Ljungberg still a great influence at Gunners It is amazing how older retired players can influence the cream of the young talent if they join the training staff after hanging up their playing boots. Arsenal’s new teen sensation Bukayo Saka is currently following all the advice that Gunner’s legend Freddie Ljungberg can give him. Saka who is only18-years-old was introduced to the first team in the Europa League win over German side Eintracht Frankfurt and he scored and provided two assists. Immediately the game had finished Bukayo phoned his father and told him it is all down to Ljungberg's help. He said: “The advice and information that Freddie gives to me is vital because he played in the same position as me. He helps me a lot every day. He also told me to always remember to stay humble even when I do some amazing things on the pitch and in training. He keeps me working hard and he has been with me since I was 15 and I believe he has made me what I am. He also helps me communicate better with the manager because his English language is easier for me to understand.” Rogers believes 100 per cent in Vardy Playing under manager Claude Puel, Leicester striker Jamie Vardy struggled. Last year he went to the World Cup with England but preference was given to Harry Kane and Vardy started only once. Because of that he withdrew from playing international football to concentrate on his Leicester career. Under new manager Brendan Rogers he is thriving and with the Baggies third in the table the Leicester fans daring to believe they can give the big teams in the Premier League tough competition. Rogers said this week: “I wouldn’t swap Jamie. I don’t think there is any doubt he is up there with Harry Kane. I wouldn’t say Kane is any better than Jamie. They are just different types with different qualities. Jamie provides a different threat and different penetration. His pace is frightening and he is a joy to work with. His hunger and appetite for goals is incredible and his speed can stretch any defence in the world. He is incredible at pressing forward and his reading of the game is remarkable because he is very tactically aware. I am lucky to have such a high quality player.” In 2015 Vardy’s speed was tested on a machine and again this year. At 32 years of age he is quicker now than four years ago!  Everton’s remarkable unwanted statistics… Looking at the Everton record books this week, I noticed two remarkable facts. Under manager Marco Silva, Everton have failed to win any game in which they have gone behind. They also boast the unwanted statistic of having 19 goals scored against them from set-pieces!  Wolves drop to second from bottom  Wolves dismal start to the season got worse last week with a Europa home defeat to Portuguese side, Braga who they should have beaten. The current headaches suffered by manager Nuno Espirito Santo got worse on Saturday when they were held to a 1-1 draw at Crystal Palace and now Wolves sit second to bottom of the Premier League. When I spoke with my contacts at the club this week I was told that the manager is desperately hoping to bring in some fresh blood in the January transfer window. Nuno believes his current players are tired because of the qualifying rounds of the Europa Cup. The reason is that Wolves have a small squad and rotation is difficult so the best players tend to be on the pitch in every match. However, Nuno emphasizes that he never abandons an out of form player but calls on his training staff to identify what is wrong and to work on improving fitness and mentality.  Guardiola still believes in Mendy Benjamin Mendy joined Manchester City back in July 2017 and since then has missed 85 games through injury! That is a lot of missed action for a player who arrived from French club Monaco for £52million and a huge reputation. However, Guardiola has backed Mendy to make a return to the team and become a vital part of the Main Road defence. Guardiola said that Mendy is important because he can come from the back and drive forward, attacking down the wing. Guardiola said: “There is a special quality he has in our team. I am currently playing Oleksandr Zinchenko but he cannot attack wide and deep. We cannot use that attacking process because his qualities are completely different. With Mendy, we can do it.” Mendy’s successful midweek game against Shakhtar Donetsk in the Champions League was an important step forward for the talented defender. And talking of City, Pep Guardiola said this week that his No.2 Mikel Arteta has made such astonishing progress since he became part of the coaching staff at City that he is the perfect man to take over from him when the Spaniard finally leaves his City managerial post.