Menengai Oilers have bolstered their squad by signing eight players ahead of the start of the Kenya Cup season next month. Gibson Weru has drafted Kenya Simbas international Dalamas Chituyi from Homeboyz, Kenya Under-20 winger Timothy Okwemba and Emmanuel Mula from Masinde Muliro University, Students Sam Were previously of Laiser Hill, Eliud Salamba,(Makueni), Adams Nyamwea of Mangu High,  Steve Arunga (Laiser Hill) and Eliud Salamba from Makueni RFC. The core of the team that did duty last season including Derrick Mbarire, Derrick Keyoga, Amos Onnyikwa, Harold Anduvate and Clinton Odhiambo are still intact. Speaking yesterday, Weru said the target will be to finish in the top six and qualify for the playoffs for the first time"Last year we finished eighth in our debut season and our boys have matured. Last year was a baptism of fire but the boys coped well and we will do better this coming season,” he added. Weru said their style of play is different from the other Kenya Cup teams. "Our style of play has been different and I am encouraging the players to take the ball into space and minimise contact and have continuity in possession, ” added Weru. He said the emphasis on this year's pre-season work was to improve on their skills."Our skill set is what will be key from other teams and its something we have been focusing on this pre-season," he added. Weru said they were working on a project to make the team Kenya Cup champions in the next three seasons. “ We are still a young club but very ambitious and with the young players and team we are building here, our target is to be the best team in the country,"  noted Weru The Nakuru-based side will play in the Impala Floodlights at the end of the season to prepare for the new season. On the Sevens front, the Oilers lie fifth on the log with 71 points and Weru harbours dreams of winning the Driftwood Sevens "It's been a good season for us. We made two Cup finals and lost both but I believe we can win ther event in Mombasa.