Good morning, It will be an all-out battle for Deputy President William Ruto, ODM leader Raila Odinga and ANC’s Musalia Mudavadi in the upcoming Kibra by-elections. The poll will provide a fertile ground for the three political heavyweights to flex their muscles and test their political clout in the city ahead of the 2022 battle for presidency. The three harbour presidential ambitions and all but Raila have publicly declared they will contest the country’s top seat in the next general elections. They have all fronted candidates for the by-election slated for November 7, a move seen by observers as an attempt by the three to gauge their political strength as they prepare for the 2022 race. Here are the other stories making headlines in the Star this morning. The International Court of Justice has held off the hearing of the maritime dispute case between Kenya and Somalia for two months. This follows a request by Kenya to the court asking for more time citing the need to recruit a new defence team. The hearings that were scheduled for next week will now be held between November 4 and 8 though Kenya had sought a 12-month postponement. The looming eviction of families living in the Mau Forest Complex is turning out to be a thorn in the flesh for Deputy President William Ruto. The DP is torn between supporting the government’s conservation efforts and appeasing his supporters as he moves to firm up his 2022 presidential bid. His main dilemma is whether to publicly throw his weight behind the conservation measures, undertaken by the government which he serves, or sacrifice it at the altar of political expediency. Absolutism is governance by decree. It stands in sharp contrast to constitutional governance, where state conduct is constrained by a constitutional and legal order rigorously enforced. Open and flagrant disregard to existing laws in a constitutional governance system is the very definition of impunity. The Mau Forest evictions, which are underway, increasingly bear the imprimatur of absolutism and dramatise impunity. This assertion is not frivolously made as substantiated in this following summation of the situation. In 2017, Jack saw a blog post that stated he could get quick money by donating his sperm. "I read through and saw that I could do it, so I left my contacts and waited for a call," he said. The blog post, seen by the Star, has comments from over 100 men and women willing to donate their sperms or ova for some cash. For instance, Phoebe, who was willing to donate her eggs for a token, left her contact and qualifications. President Uhuru Kenyatta is unhappy with Foreign Affairs Cabinet Secretary Monica Juma and is considering sacking her. Apart from the growing internal disquiet in her Ministry, Monica is on the spotlight from powerful individuals close to State House for Kenya’s alleged dwindling diplomatic power. The Head of State, according to people close to him, thinks the CS has not lived up to the expectation and has been unable to steer Kenya's foreign policy well.