England’s squad players got the job done with a solid 45-7 bonus point victory over the United States at the Rugby World Cup on Thursday against a determined Eagles side. With a four-day turnaround after their opening Pool C victory over Tonga, coach Eddie Jones rang the changes with 10 new picks but was rewarded with seven tries in humid conditions at a packed Kobe Misaki Stadium. Skipper George Ford, Billy Vunipola and Luke Cowan-Dickie scored before the break, with winger Joe Cokanasiga grabbing a brace and Ruaridh McConnochie and Lewis Ludlam also crossing in the second half. United States flanker John Quill was sent off in the 70th minute for a shoulder charge to the head of Owen Farrell but the Americans never gave up and replacement Bryce Campbell finally got them on the scoreboard after the final gong. “It’s a good win again,” said player-of-the-match Ford. “We had to work for it again, the USA were a really physical, passionate team so we had to earn that win and I thought we did that very well.” U.S. coach Gary Gold, however, was disappointed. “You can’t be missing nearly 40 tackles in a game and still hope to be in the game,” he added. “It was a pretty awful performance by us tonight.” Earlier, a dropped ball by replacement flanker Matt Heaton with the line gaping did not cost Canada victory against Italy in their Rugby World Cup Pool B match on Thursday but it could have changed the game’s momentum, coach Kingsley Jones said. Heaton only had to catch the ball and flop over the line after his captain Tyler Ardron had burst clear to set up what should have been their opening try and reduce the score to 17-7 after the Italians had started strongly. Instead, the Italians reached halftime 17-0 up at Fukuoka Hakatanomori Stadium and kicked on to run out 48-7 winners, going top of a pool that includes heavyweights New Zealand and South Africa. “I thought we just didn’t finish our opportunities,” Jones told reporters. “If we had taken a gift under the posts then that changes the shape of the game, not just the scoreboard, but unfortunately we didn’t take those chances.” Heaton’s gaffe was not the only mistake made by the North Americans in a 20-minute first-half spell, missing two other clear-cut chances to score as DTH van der Merwe created space down the left-wing, and when the Canadians wasted a three-on-one chance the momentum swung back to the Italians who duly capitalised.