Are some Kieleweke MPs plotting to confront a colleague for being Deputy President William Ruto’s spy? Two legislators have revealed to Corridors of Powers that they have identified an MP from Mt Kenya who has been leaking the outfit’s plans to the DP. The mole, they claimed, meets the DP at the Weston Hotel every evening to brief him on the inside plans of Kieleweke. They are now planning to expose the MP. The group consisting of vocal lawmakers is opposed to Ruto succeeding President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2022 and instead are pushing for the unity deal between the Uhuru and ODM leader Raila Odinga. A top ODM official is a man under siege. A source who is in the know says the man has become a cash cow for some members of a county assembly from Nyanza. The man has been dishing out cash to the MCAs whenever they threaten to unleash a dossier against him. The powerful official is said to have influenced the nomination of his close relatives, including his wife, to several county assemblies and the Senate. Last week, he met the MCAs in a hotel in Nairobi and gave them Sh500,000 each after they threatened to expose him. A mole disclosed that the man has been corrupting the ward representatives since early 2018 when they learned that he nominated his relatives to the positions. Did the foreign nationals busted for selling second-hand clothes just shift their operations to another side of the city? Corridors has learnt that the enterprise, which was widely condemned and even led to the deportation of some of the foreigners, is still a booming business. Only the method of operation has changed. In the new set up, sales are left to locals who collect the luggage in the morning at a warehouse in Nairobi’s Industrial Area, which is manned only by the foreigners. Maybe it is time the government activate its intelligence in view of the new development. Somebody should leak this information to Interior CS Fred Matiang'i. Is a deputy governor in one of the Mt Kenya counties under pressure from his boss to engage in political activity against his principles? Corridors has been informed that the deputy governor, who is known to have strong Christian values and was once a church elder, has found himself in a tight corner. His boss has taken a different political stand that he is reportedly very uncomfortable with. To him, the direction the governor has taken is dimming their chances of being reelected in 2022. Will the DG keep to himself the pain pricking his conscience or will he stand up and face his boss?