Two Wheel Drive non-Turbo leader Zameer Verjee is leaving nothing to chance ahead of tomorrow’s penultimate KCB Autocross 9 which will be held at the Moi International Sports Centre (MISC), Kasarani. Verjee, who has cleared the ground with all his class adversaries this season in his traditional A to Z Studio Racing Rage Buggy, believes the new racetrack at Kasarani will bring good tidings to his team and fans. He will be crowned the new champion in class should he win the race tomorrow. Should he emerge the winner with the Fastest Time of the Day, he will have racked up the unassailable 190 points—putting it beyond his closest rival Sarry Mughal with the coastal tour remaining after tomorrow. “It’s a new track to all and should be good fun because no one has an idea of what to expect. The track was used during the WRC Safari Rally and highly recommended by  FIA officials. It provides a good change of scenario away from the Jamhuri which we are all used to. I’m hoping to close the championship and have some good competition with the new buggy too. It’s going to be hard but yes, that’s my aim, maximum attack but sensible driving,” said Zameer. He will be up against Izmir Racing’s Mughal, Sameer Nanji and Rajveer Thethy who are back after sitting out of the last two races. Adil Khan has also entered the class in his wife’s championship-winning Toyota Vitz. “I’m sure my opponents will come hard at me. Starry has been good this season and the rest. The essence though will be to post good times and garner as enough points to secure the championship. We hope to set the Fastest Time of the Day as well and get an extra two points in the championship,” he added. According to the clerk of the course, Anthony Gatei, the event will feature a flat-out and fun-filled 4.6km twin-track sure to treat spectators to some exhilarating displays of motoring artistry. Gatei added the track is designed with spectators in mind. “It’s a fun-filled twin track with different crossover bridges and a variety of smooth flowing and technical camber corners. Overall, it’s a fast and unique racetrack which was highly rated by World Rally Championship Safety Delegate Michelle Mouton  recently As part of the safety plan; we have elevated the spectator view deck from where they can view 75% of the track without having to interfere with the flow of racing cars.” For the first time, the organisers Rallye Sports Club (RSC) are bringing the competition to the circuit used for the first time during the WRC Safari Rally candidate event. 