Good morning, Kenya Airways will not break even and return to its glorious days as the ‘Pride of Africa’ if the shareholding structure remains unchanged. Outgoing CEO Sebastian Mikosz, in an exclusive interview with the Star yesterday warned that the airline would continue losing its market share if the status quo remains. Describing it as the ‘enemy within’, the Polish expert singled out the KQ financing structure as the biggest hindrance to the national airline’s growth. Here are the other stories making headlines in the Star this morning. Mutura, a blood-soaked delicacy, remains Kenya’s top traditional blood sausage among many, especially beer lovers. The delicacy is made with fresh blood and a blend of ginger, garlic, scallions, cilantro and fistfuls of chillies. Mutura requires skill to produce and must be made fresh to prevent the offal from spoiling. Unlike processed sausages, it contains no preservatives and is meant to be eaten within a day or so. About 100 million pieces of the old Sh1,000 note had been returned to the Central Bank of Kenya by end of August ahead of September 30 deadline. This translates to about 50 per cent of old Sh1,000 in circulation, meaning members of the public exactly 24 days to return remaining 117 million pieces of old notes which will be obsolete come October 1. This means, almost five million old notes are to be returned daily to achieve 100 per cent demonitisation. ODM yesterday assured Kibra by-election aspirants that tomorrow's primaries will be free, fair and transparent even as Jubilee struggles to tame a post-nominations falling out. The opposition chief Raila Odinga's party said the National Elections Board had by yesterday finalised preparations for the nominations through universal suffrage. National Elections Board chairperson Judy Pareno said the county security team had promised them maximum security during the nomination. Some civil society groups have dismissed the Building Bridges Initiative as a plot by President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga to control state power. Uwazi consortium yesterday warned that the much-anticipated BBI report may, after all, not inspire confidence in Kenyans as it has an insidious agenda. International Policy Group, African Electoral Observation Group, Transform and Empower for Action Initiative, Centre for Minority Rights Development, Hema La Katiba are some of the lobbies in the association. Hundreds of squatters on the Malindi International Airport land at Kwachocha will be evicted for work to start on the Sh5.6 billion phase one expansion of the facility. The government has paid Sh418 million to the squatters but are yet to relocate. Kilifi county commissioner Magu Mutindika said they will force them out if they do not leave.