Dismas Indiza, played an excellent round of 9-under par 63 on Day 3 of the Uganda Open Championship, obliterating the Lake Serena Golf Resort and Spa’s course record of 6-under par, and jumping 20 places up the leader board to end the day in second place with an overall score of 4-under par 212. On a day and date when those who are highly superstitious are wary of bad luck, Indiza had all his stars aligned for what was a perfect day on the golf course. He played a bogey-free round, sinking birdies in all but three holes on the first nine, and sinking another three on the back nine. On the first nine, he sunk successive birdies at the par-5, second; par-4 third; par-3, fourth and the par-4, fifth holes before sinking consecutive birdies at the par-5, eighth and the par-4, ninth to card a total of 30. On the back nine, he sunk birdies at the par-3, 11th; par-5, 13th and the par-5, 17th to card a total of 33. His performance today was one for the books and surely one that he needed to make to have any chance of mounting a challenge for the top spot, going into the final round tomorrow. He came into the round with a disappointing 5-over par overall score from the first two rounds and needed something of a miracle to turn around his fortunes. He now heads into the final round of the 2019 Uganda Open not only as the leading Kenyan from the Safari Tour contingent but also in great contention to defend the Uganda Open title which he won last year. Windsor’s Rizwan Charania, who had ended round two as the leading Kenyan at the tournament, dropped down six places, to finish the day tied in 10th place, having played a 4-over par round that undid the gains he had made in Thursday's round. Meanwhile, Thika’s Simon Ngige had gained four places at the close of his round today, to finish the day tied in seventh place, having played a decent round of 1-under par 71 to take his total for the tournament to 1-over par 217. Mohit Mediratta and Edwin Mudanyi dropped five places and one place to end the day 13th and T14 respectively while the Professional Golfers of Kenya Captain, C J Wangai, gained five places at the end of the round to finish tied in 17th. Muthaiga Golf Club’s Greg Snow, who is also sponsored by Johnnie Walker, was a non-mover alongside Kopan Timbe with whom he was tied in 22nd place.