Rising Stars will meet Burundi in the quarter-finals of the ongoing Cecafa U20 Championships tomorrow. Stars are unlikely to be with midfielder Chris Owino, who sustained a knee injury in the 4-0 thumping of Ethiopia, that might rule him out of the last eight clashes. The Talanta workhorse has been an ever-present for the Kenyan side and his possible absence will be a damaging blow to the team’s aspirations. “Owino is a doubt for the knock-out stage as he injured his knee. We have to do a further assessment on the extent of the injury when we get back to the hotel. But early indications are that it is quite significant,” revealed the Kenya U-20 national team coach Stanley Okumbi in the aftermath of the victory in their final Group B match. The Rising Stars had already sealed qualification following their opening 5-0 win over Zanzibar coupled with a 2-2 draw against Tanzania, and all they needed was cap it off in style to ensure a top spot finish. Kisumu All-Stars’ Steve Otieno, who was brought on in the first half in place of Owino, broke the deadlock a minute before halftime with a fine left-footed finish for a 1-0 score as the teams headed back to the changing rooms. Austin Odhiambo then made it two in the 68th minute, with the Ethiopian side starting to show signs of withering. The goal was capped with two more strikes by second-half substitutes John Njuguna and Benson Omala in the 75th and 84th minutes as the Rising Stars finished the job in style. “It was an all-round performance and I am pleased we managed to take all our chances this time round and restricted our opponents attacks,” enthused OKumbi. “We have not been able to see matches involving our next opponents but regardless we will be ready,” he added in anticipation of their last eight clashes tomorrow.   Fixtures Sudan v South Sudan (Peace Stadium, Gulu) 1 pm Tanzania v Uganda (Peace Stadium, Gulu) 4 pm Burundi v Kenya (Fufa Technical Centre, Jinja) 1 pm Eritrea v Zanzibar (Fufa Technical Centre, Jinja) 4  