A Facebook post claiming that Kenya Breweries Limited is recruiting entry level staff is a HOAX. The post contains a list of positions that KBL is allegedly recruiting for, with applicants required to submit their applications by September 13, 2019. The advert asks applicants to send their application letters to jobs2019@eabl.com and forward the same applications to jobs.eabl2019@gmail.com. The use of an email address not tied to the company’s domain is suspicious, as is the typo in name KBL’s parent company, which appears as ‘East Africa Breweries’ rather than ‘East African Breweries’. However, in a notice shared on its official Facebook page, Kenya Breweries Limited disowned the post, terming it as a scam. Kenya Breweries Limited, which is part of East African Breweries, added that they do not charge a fee for job applications in their recruitment process, adding that all employment opportunities are advertised on their website. A check done by PesaCheck on the EABL website revealed that the company had no available vacancies at the moment. This is not the first time Donald Kipkorir has shared a fake job ad, having posted a fake ad for jobs at Amref Health Africa on September 7, 2019. PesaCheck has looked into the claim that Kenya Breweries Limited is recruiting entry level staff and finds it to be a HOAX. This post is part of an ongoing series of PesaCheck fact-checks examining content marked as potential misinformation on Facebook and other social media platforms. By partnering with Facebook and similar social media platforms, third-party fact-checking organisations like PesaCheck are helping to sort fact from fiction. We do this by giving the public deeper insight and context to posts they see in their social media feeds. Have you spotted what you think is fake news or false information on Facebook? Here’s how you can report. And, here’s more information on PesaCheck’s methodology for fact-checking questionable content. This fact-check was written by PesaCheck Researcher James Okong’o, was edited by PesaCheck Deputy Editor Ann Ngengere and was approved for publication by PesaCheck Managing Editor Eric Mugendi.