One of the world's gruelling motoring tournaments - the Safari Rally - is back. The International Automobile Federation (FIA) announced on Friday that the Safari Rally will make a comeback on July 19, 2020. FIA Rally Director Yves Matton said that in order to further globalise the championship, there was a need to have more WRC rounds outside Europe. "I am glad to see the results of our expansion strategy, with emblematic events such as Kenya and Japan coming back to the WRC calendar next year, alongside New Zealand replacing Australia, while long-standing, iconic European events provide a great balance and preserve the DNA of the sport," Matton said. President Uhuru Kenyatta welcomed the decision by the FIA following a successful candidate rally earlier this year. "My Administration will continue to work with the relevant bodies to ensure that the 2020 Safari Rally and successive events thereafter are hosted successfully," Uhuru said. He added; "Before my Administration assumed office in 2013, I made a promise to the people of Kenya, to return the Safari Rally back to the International Automobile Federation World Rally Championship family. This process has taken us seven years." Two months ago, Uhuru officially flagged off the 66th Edition of Safari Rally 2019 at the Moi International Sports Centre, Kasarani. Baldev Singh Chager navigated by Ravi Soni in a Mitsubishi Lancer Evolution savored his third career Safari Rally as the third round of the FIA African Rally Championship culminated in Kedong. The Safari Rally as it is known today was first held in Kenya in 1953 to commemorate the coronation of Queen Elizabeth II. It started as the East African Safari Rally traversing the three East African countries of Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania. The Rally developed to become the toughest Rally in the world and was regarded as a true test of man and machine. In 1973, the Safari was admitted to the prestigious International Automobile Federation (FIA) World Rally Championship (WRC) held within the boundaries of Kenya. The Safari Rally continued to enjoy International Automobile Federation World Rally Championship status until the year 2002 when the event was dropped from the World Rally Championship and relegated to the African Rally Championship (ARC).