In December last year, Global Age Watch report released by HelpAge International and AAR indicated that most deaths among the elderly in Kenya were caused by non-communicable diseases. This is due to the lack of adequate plans to safeguard their health rights. The report showed an increase in cases of non-communicable diseases, with the Health ministry registering over 55 per cent, more than half of hospital admissions, and 74.8 per cent of the total years lived with disability. The report, which was launched globally, marked Universal Health Coverage Day. It focused on older people’s right to health and how health systems need to adapt to ensure older women and men can realise their right to health. In addition to the global analysis, the report explores national trends on older people’s health status in 12 countries, including Kenya. It probes how health systems could be reformed to better respond to shifting disease patterns and ensure the availability, accessibility and quality of health services for older people. HelpAge country programme coordinator Erastus Maina said HelpAge has supported the government to carry out better health programmes for the elderly. "The inadequate response to older people’s healthcare needs by healthcare systems is driven, in part, by a lack of data on older people’s health needs. We need to address all the diseases without isolation,” he said. HelpAge International CEO Justin Derbyshire said the health rights of older people should be safeguarded without discrimination for their well-being. “This year, as we celebrate the 70th anniversaries of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the founding of the World Health Organisation, it is significant that older people are being left out. Older people have the right to health, but they are not being counted in key data, and health services are not being adapted to meet their needs," he said. "Health systems in low and middle-income countries are facing severe challenges, but the global drive towards universal health coverage is an opportunity to strengthen these and meet the Sustainable Development Goals to ensure healthy lives and well-being for all at all ages.”