 John Kihiu Nduku has confounded fellow Githaruru villagers in Gatundu South by declaring that his body should not be buried when he dies. Instead, the body should be used in the study of human anatomy at Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technolgy School of Medicine. Kihiu's decision is contained in a will dated August 5, 2019, witnessed by James Kibe Kibutha and Emmanuel Njau Kiarie. His wife, Mary Njeri, says she was dumbfounded when she learnt of her husband’s decision "but I will respect his wish". “I was shocked.  He told me that his decision will help many students, physicians and other scientists who will in turn help change the lives of many Kenyans. As such, I am ready to execute his wish," Njeri said. Some of the villagers told the Star that they are yet to come to terms with the 86-year-old man's wish. “It’s unheard of in this region.  I’ve never heard anyone making such a resolve. But he knows what he’s doing because he’s in his right mind," villager Morris Ndichu said. None of his children – Teresia Nyambura, Njoroge Kihiu and Karanu Kihiu – was at home when the Star visited but the parents said their offsprings are aware of their father's decision. The octogenarian told journalists at his home that his decision was influenced by a medical condition he had suffered from for 29 years. He was successfully treated at Gatundu Level 5 Hospital. Kihiu said his decision was an appreciation of the medics who operated on him in February this year and discovered that he had been suffering from asthma. “I had made countless visits to various hospitals since 1990 when the problem started. It’s only in February that the doctors at the Gatundu hospital discovered what I had been ailing from. "I was overjoyed. I had endured a lot of pain and the only way to appreciate is by assisting more staff and students to pursue medical studies, especially anatomy, by offering my body,” he said. His will reads in part: “Upon my demise, I declare that my body should not be buried as the same should be used for human anatomy by Jomo Kenyatta University. To be used by students and physicians in their study…” The will states that upon his demise, a funeral service will be conducted at his home by the Presbyterian Church of East Africa (PCEA), though there will be no burial. “…I do declare this, my last will, was executed by me voluntarily when in good state of mind and health and represent my true wishes as to the way my body should be disposed of in case of my demise,” the will states. The octogenarian said he has since informed the government through Gatundu deputy county commissioner John Mirichu in writing. He has also presented a copy of the will to JKUAT management for action upon his death. Kihiu called on all concerned to respect his decision or else they will be cursed. Unlike in the West where bodies are donated for human research, few Kenya families make body donations. Only institutions of anatomy are legally permitted to procure dead bodies for studies. Under section 6(1)(b) of the Anatomy Act Cap 249, the minister of Health may, in writing, grant authority to the Director of Medical Services, in respect of any hospital, or medical officer concerned with any public institution wholly or partly maintained by public funds,  authorise the body of any person who dies to be examined anatomically in an approved school of anatomy. 