Athletics Kenya senior vice president Paul Mutwii has tipped defending World 5,000m champion Hellen Obiri to clinch gold when she makes her debut in the 10,000m race today at the Khalifa Stadium, Doha Qatar. The Championships served off yesterday with the highlight being the women’s marathon final which was scheduled for last night but the focus today shifts to the 10,000m final, where all eyes will be on Obiri. Obiri, a 5,000m specialist, is doubling in this year’s championships and is deemed as a pre-race favourite in the 25 lap race, where she is set to have her bid severely tested by both Ethiopian and Ugandan rivals. Mutwii, who doubles up as Team Kenya’s overall team manager rallied behind the Olympics 5,000m silver medallist to crown the new challenge with a gold medal. “Obiri decided to try her luck in both 10,000 and 5,000 races and I have full faith that she will claim the gold medal. It was her personal decision which we welcomed after watching her depict class in the cross country. With her, I feel the Ethiopians or any other opponents stand no chance.” Mutwii further alluded that Obiri would pick from where the Olympics 5,000m champion Vivian Cheruiyot left. “When Cheruiyot called it a day in the 5,000m race, Obiri stepped in and continued the legacy. The scenario will not be different this time around. Since Cheruiyot’s exit to the marathon and road races, we have not had a consistent athlete in the speciality but with Obiri’s experience, we will have that void fully filled. We also have young athletes like Agnes Tirop who are also coming up well.” At the same time, Eunice Sum qualified to the women’s 800m race second round after finishing fourth. The first three in each heat automatically qualified for semis and will be joined by the top six fastest losers. Mutwii meanwhile explained the reason behind the late arrival of a handful of athletes who did not travel with the rest. The men’s marathon team, men’s 5000m and steeplechase are yet to fly in. Besides, the women’s marathon finals, the 5okm walk race finals for both genders will be held today. Kenya will be represented by Samuel Gathimba and Grace Wanjiru in both races. 