Only four out of 85 wards in Nairobi county have received the full bursary funds after the Controler of Budget approved the withdrawal and disbursement of Sh397.7 million. The delay is despite a seven-month delay of the approval done in July. Each ward was to get Sh3.5 million but 81 wards are still waiting for some funds. According to a document by Education chief officer Jairus Musumba, Mlango Kubwa, Utawala, Karen and Utalii wards have received the full Sh3.5 million. The rest have outstanding balances, Makina ward's being the lowest at Sh5,000 and Pumwani at the highest balance of Sh880,000. The MCAs with balances on Wednesday expressed their dismay during an Education Committee sitting. Education CEC Lucia Mulwa and her team were hard pressed to explain why they gave out vouchers knowing that the full Sh3.5 million was not sent to schools. "Parents are complaining that no money was channelled to the school yet you gave us vouchers," Kahawa West MCA Anthony Ng'ang'a said. However, Pumwani MCA Paul Irungu disagreed with the figures from the executive saying that the balance is much higher. "My ward manager says the ward has not received Sh 1.2 million and as per the record I see Sh880,000. We are tired of playing games with education funds," he said. In defence of her department, Mulwa told the ward reps that the county is at 96 per cent in disbursing last year's bursaries. "We have four wards with zero balance. This confirms that all the wards will get the bursary funds," she said. The MCAs said it was sarcastic for the CEC to say the county is at 96 per cent yet only four wards out of 85 had received the full amount. The Education department said some transactions were rejected because of wrong account details, wrongs names and lack of special characters. Account balance unknown In the proceedings, the executive was unable to state the account balance of the county bursary funds. This was after Nominated MCA Kabiro Mbugua raised concern over the miscalculation of funds. "The documents state Sh281.8 million as having been released to schools and Sh15.3 million as the remainder. But when you add the two it does not add up to Sh 297.5 million, there is a deficit of Sh400,000," he said. Explaining the deficit, an accountant from the Education department said, "The Sh400,000 are charges consumed by the bank for transactions and it is charged from the executive side of the funds." It was said that the county has one account for both the MCAs and Executive bursaries. Majority Whip Waithera Chege pressed the CEC and the accountant to give the current balance of the county bursary funds "but they refrained from doing so". "How can you not know the balance yet you assure us on the 96 per cent progress. What is this that is being hidden?' she asked. "We might assume there is money and it is the opposite. I want to remind the CEC on the Public Service Act specifically on integrity and transparency," she added. Waithera, who doubles is also s South B MCA, said the Sh400,000 meant to cater for bank charges should not be inclusive of the Sh297.5 million. Cheques more effective The MCAs complained that the new system of transferring money directly from the county to the schools' accounts was not efficient. "This system has completely failed. It is bursary funds that makes ward reps relevant in their wards and the executive is still playing games with money. Let us undo the voucher system," Highrise MCA Kennedy Oyugi said. Laini Saba's Cecilia Ayot said, "We should have uniformity in the manner in which bursary funds are disbursed. Schools are almost closing and yet the parents are lamenting that no money has reflected in the school's account. They have waited for ten months already." On April 2, Governor Mike Sonko launched the electronic transfer of bursary funds directly to schools to curb corruption. The electronic cash transfer was aimed at reducing the workload and promoting efficiency and accountability. "Sending money electronically to recipients' bank accounts will minimise a lot of challenges, including errors on the cheques such as signatures," Sonko said. Edited by R.Wamochie