Jack Grealish had to be restrained by team-mates after Aston Villa were denied an equaliser at Crystal Palace on a day when managers and players were again raging over VAR. Henri Lansbury thought he had rescued a point for Villa in injury-time only for referee Kevin Friend to decide Grealish had dived in the build-up. And it wasn’t only Villa seething over a hotly-contested VAR call with Norwich boss Daniel Farke claiming football’s controversial new innovation ‘makes football not 100 per cent fair’. And there was also VAR uproar at Leicester, where Youri Tielemans amazingly escaped any sanction despite an over-the-top studs-up lunge on Callum Wilson which left the Bournemouth star in a heap. Tielemans had already scored in Leicester’s impressive 3-1 win. Villa’s players certainly felt they had been robbed of a point with manager Dean Smith storming: “I think everyone else’s view was ‘good goal’. No one could understand why it wasn’t given.” An incensed Grealish, booked by Friend for diving despite TV replays showing he had been fouled, needed to be pulled away from the officials. “He got a nudge from Zaha in the back,” added Smith. “Simulation? No chance. It was a perfectly good goal.” Furious fans took to social media to slate Friend and VAR and Gary Lineker also waded into the row, tweeting: ‘The disallowed goal for @AVFCOfficial in the last minute has to be seen to be believed. “Why VAR didn’t correct what appeared to be an awful refereeing error is beyond me.” After Leicester’s win over Bournemouth, Wilson was furious about Tielemans’ tackle. “He missed the ball and went over the top and went on to my ankle. If it’s not clear and obvious then I don’t know what is,” he said. Watford were also last night wondering how handball in the build-up to Fabian Schar’s equaliser in the 1-1 draw at Newcastle was not spotted. And Farke was outraged that VAR did nothing about Sebastian Haller’s robust challenge on Christoph Zimmerman which referee Paul Tierney ignored but which forced the Norwich defender off. “This game is the perfect example that VAR doesn’t always work out and makes football not 100 per cent fair,” was the German’s damning verdict. “There was a tackle against my centre-half and the ball was three yards away. There was no red card, no yellow card, not even a free-kick and the outcome was my centre back was injured.” The Grealish controversy led to ugly scenes in the stands with TV pictures showing punches being thrown at security staff by spectators in the away end. Police with batons intervened, making one arrest, with video footage under review to assess if Villa will face any punishment. Villa fans were also enraged by comments from former top referee Peter Walton who accused Grealish of cheating. “Unfortunately Grealish has been a victim of his own theatrics there,” he told BT Sport. Steve Bruce was relieved the handball call went his way but is unconvinced about VAR. “It did come off his hand, did it? said the Newcastle boss. “It’s difficult. We’re going to have many issues with VAR. It’s not the fixed answer. I’m not so sure I’m a big lover of it.” In a statement, the Premier League said: “The referee considered that Jack Grealish committed an act of simulation in the penalty area and blew his whistle to stop the game before the ball went into goal. Having reviewed the incident the VAR judged that no clear and obvious error had occurred and the on-field decision of simulation remained.”