Embattled Kisumu speaker Onyango Oloo has been impeached. Forty-two MCAs yesterday voted for his removal. Acting speaker Elisha Oraro said the motion met the required threshold and Oloo stands impeached. One of the MCAs told the Star that Oloo had been served with the notice but failed to appear in the assembly in the afternoon to defend himself. The motion was moved by Kondele Ward MCA Joachim Oketch. It was debated and adopted by the MCAs before a vote. The motion to remove the speaker was based on 10 grounds. Earlier in the day, Oloo's attempts to access his office were thwarted. Drama started when Oloo accompanied by supporters, some MCAs and bodyguards arrived at the assembly in the morning. Anti-riot police lobbed teargas at them. The group allied to Oloo clashed with another opposing him. Police condoned off the area to minimise movement. Later, Oloo returned to the assembly but found both gates and his office locked.  He camped outside the premises as MCAs demanded that he leaves from the venue. MCAs on September 11 elected Elisha Oraro as acting speaker in place Oloo. They told Oloo to step aside until corruption charges against him are cleared. Ward reps yesterday vowed not to allow Oloo to gain access into the house and his office. They told him to give them time to continue with the assembly's business. But Oloo said he will use any means to access his office and conduct his duties as the speaker. On Tuesday, Kondele MCA Joachim Oketch tabled a notice of motion that proposes Oloo's removal. But Oloo said he will defend his position to the end. He told MCAs to continue with the impeachment plan, saying he is ready to defend himself if the process is done according to the law. He said there is no court order barring him from accessing his office and discharging his duties as the speaker. Oloo said there was no provision in law that allowed the members to elect an acting speaker. Oloo accused the MCAs of contravening the law by changing the assembly's leadership. He further claimed that the approved budget risks being challenged in court as it was not signed by a substantive speaker. Market Milimani Ward MCA Seth Kanga said they have instructions from ODM party to block Oloo from entering the assembly. Kanga, who is also the ODM chair Kisumu Central, said Oloo has to go to the party headquarters and sought his issues. He said ODM has internal dispute resolution mechanisms and if he cannot sort out his problems through that avenue, then as an assembly they will not allow him to return as speaker. “We listen to the party. When the party agrees that he comes back we will allow him to do so but as per now, we can't let him in,” Kanga said. “We elected you courtesy of ODM, go and do your things. Go and let us stay in peace. Sort yourself out with the party and clear your court case, thats when you can come back. We are tired of your leadership,” Kolwa MCA Steve Owiti told Oloo. Owiti said there was no leadership vacuum in the assembly. MCA Joachim Oketch said the integrity of the Kisumu county assembly must be upheld. After calm was restored, and Oloo left, the MCAs returned to the assembly. Acting speaker Oraro said he received communication from ODM party notifying the assembly of the changes in the county board. The changes made in the assembly leadership also saw the service board reconstituted. South East Nyakach MCA Johnson Guya and Kobura ward rep John Atieno were picked as new members. Oraro directed the sergeant-at-arms to ensure safety of the mace after concerns were raised by MCA Paul Okiri and Kaloleni Shauri Moyo MCA Prisca Misachi. After the session ended, the mace was taken away by some city askaris accompanied by police officers. Workers at the assembly said they do not know where it was kept. 