ODM has sought to assure the 10 aspirants for the Kibra MP ticket that the nomination will be free, fair and transparent. Cleared aspirants include Christone Odhiambo, popularly known as DJ Kris Darlin, Peter Ochieng, Tony Ogola Sira, Reuben Ojijo and Stephen Okello. Others are Bernard Otieno, Eric Ochieng, Brian Owino, John Otieno, Benson Musungu and Patrick Lumumba Owade. In a statement on Thursday, executive board chairperson Judith Pareno said her team held consultations with the county security team which assured the party of maximum security during the nomination. “We met with the County Commander of Police yesterday and placed our request for security personnel to be provided for the exercise,” Pareno said. She said there will be two police officers per polling station and additional officers to patrol the entire constituency during the exercise. The nomination exercise she said shall be held in all the 24 centres comprising 180 polling stations, gazetted by the IEBC. “Every polling station shall have a Presiding Officer and two clerks. There will be the party membership register and members shall be required to carry their national Identification Cards to take part in the exercise,” she said. Any candidate who goes against the nomination rules including causing violence or disturbance during the exercise will be disqualified. Pareno said the Dispute Resolution Tribunal comprising three members has been set up to deal with any dispute that will arise as a result of the exercise. The tribunal will sit on Sunday to listen to any dispute and make a determination in readiness for the winner’s name to be presented to the IEBC on Monday. The aspirants assured the NEB and their supporters that they will adhere to the rules of the nomination and each of them will support whoever emerges the winner in the nomination exercise. Party secretary general  Edwin Sifuna said the party has provided all the necessary assistance to the NEB, adding he expects the process to be free and fair as promised by the board. “We want every candidate to be satisfied and it is our prayer that all the aspirants will behave well to make the exercise a success,” Sifuna said. The meeting was also attended by ODM chairman for Nairobi county George Aladwa who is also the MP for Makadara, legislators Anthony Oluoch (Mathare), Tom Kajwang’ (Ruaraka), Timothy Wanyonyi (Westlands), Babu Owino (Embakasi East), Simba Arati (Dagoretti North), Beatrice Kwamboka (nominated Senator) and the Executive Director of the party Oduor Ong’wen.