Lakeside gave coach Migun Ogilo a perfect birthday gift as they posted a 70-66 win over World Hope in a Premier League tie at the Nyayo Stadium gymnasium. The victory, the first away win for the Kisumu side in the six-month-old league, helped push their relegation worries aside with four more games to play. "This is a match that we needed to win to compensate for the home loss against Emyba. It has eased our relegation worries. Now we have a good chance to stay up," said Ogilo. "We missed many easy opportunities to score but our fitness level was better so we took off in the last quarter to win it." Migun says he now targets to win the remaining home matches before winding up with a tight away fixture in Mombasa. "We will play the three at home and then travel to Mombasa for our last show. We will be in a relaxed mood and might even snatch a win," he noted. Justus Okutoyi made 15, Basil Ogembo 12 and Collins Wataka 11 for Lakeside. Vincent Majimbo nailed 20, Victor Migaro had 14 and Victor Okoth grabbed 11 for Hope. World Hope's George Namake still remains hopeful that his boys will somehow survive the axe despite another sad loss. "We had a good start but lost it in the lost minute because the fighting spirit was simply not there at all," observed the veteran coach. Second-placed Thunder had it all too easy as they blanked United States international university (USIU) 80-62. Collins Gaya said: " We took it easy as everybody had a chance to play. I have two tight matches coming up, against KPA and Ulinzi, and these remain my focus." Tigers coach Cliff Owuor was unamused at the officiating, lashing out at the match referees after the final whistle. But while their fate remains precarious, that of USIU Flames brightened with another crucial 72-67 defeat of Tangit Sparks. Jemima Knight shot 24, Fridah Yagomba hit 18 and Linnsay Wanyonyi added 17 for the winners who have continued to post impressive results. Michelle Otinda scored 24 points and Getty Sagala registered 13 for Sparks whose worrying form continues to dip at a wrong time. Riara University had the better of the visiting Kenya Ports Authority (KPA) Youth winning 66-61 in a lower division ladies encounter.