 Gary Neville is ‘delighted’ that Romelu Lukaku has left Manchester United and wants more players to leave the club. Neville said on Twitter: “I’m hearing you. I’m delighted he’s left. I won’t be happy till everyone single one of them that think they are better and bigger than the club and don’t want to be here are gone! “Nothing at all about his nationality or him not being a good player. He will always score goals.” Neville was then asked by a fan on Twitter: “What would you rather have Gary, a player who will score you 25 goals a year or a player that scores 10 max and taps the badge when he scores? He responded: “I don’t care about 25/10/5 at the moment . We just need players that want to play for the club. Strip it back to that and then build a team ... That’s what I want. It will take some time to do though so patience will be needed . Twitter has loads of patience so we are good.” Lukaku previously told Neville not to ‘question’ his professionalism after the former Manchester United defender criticised the striker. The 26-year-old was called ‘overweight’ by Neville on Twitter earlier this month shortly after he joined Serie A side Inter Milan on a five-year deal in a £74million move. But Lukaku took exception to Neville’s comments in an interview on Friday. :Don’t question my professionalism,” Lukaku told the BBC. “I live for this game. I am at home all the time. I try to do everything to improve.” Lukaku added: “He (Neville) can talk about my fitness but he should never say anything about my professionalism, that I don’t work hard enough. That is something he cannot say. All the coaches I have had say the same thing about me.” “What did Ole Gunnar Solskjaer say when I was on the training ground? What did he say? That I always work hard and always do my best to try and improve myself. Same with Jose Mourinho and Roberto Martinez. Now Antonio Conte will say it.” “Last year was just a bad year. It happens in football. You just have to move on. I am not going to sit here and react in a negative way. We are grown men. He is a pundit. He gets paid to say this kind of stuff. I am paid to play football. I just want to do my best for Inter Milan. That is it.” Lukaku has now lost half a stone in weight after sticking to a strict nutrition regime under Inter boss Antonio Conte.