Kibra candidates have hit the ground to try and sway residents to vote for them during a by election on November 7. The election was occasioned after the death of Ken Okoth who was their member of Parliament since 2017. Okoth died after cancer took a toll on him in July. Among the candidates are; Jubilee candidate  McDonald Mariga, ODM's Bernard Imran Okoth, ANC's Eliud Owalo among others. A spot check by the Star showed Mariga embarking on a one on one meeting with Kibra residents. Mariga who seemed shy was seen meeting residents adorned in a red Jubilee T- shirt and blue jeans. Accompanied by a few youths, Mariga walked the slum as he greeted its residents and sold his agenda. This comes a day after President Uhuru Kenyatta and his Deputy assured him of unwavering support. Uhuru and Ruto met the former Harambee Stars player at State House on Wednesday and vowed to fully rally behind him in the race. On Thursday evening, Mariga  was at Nyayo stadium where he met Kibra residents and talked matters development. "I met the residents of Makina,Laini Saba,Sarangombe,Lindi and Woodley wards. The agenda was development matters and how we will work together for the betterment of Kibra residents," he said in a tweet. Owalo was also not left out as he campaigned in the area. Owalo was former ODM leader Raila Odinga's aide. He moved from the lobby group to head Raila's 2013  Presidential Campaign serving as Head of the CORD Presidential Campaign Secretariat and Chief Campaign Manager to former Prime Minister. Owalo fell out with Raila during the ODM primaries for Kibra at the 2017 elections and is now the candidate of another former Raila ally Musalia Mudavadi's ANC party. Owalo on Sunday attended a church service at Kibra Church of God in Line saba,Kibra. He was accompanied by ANC Party leader Musalia Mudavadi. Owalo joined Makina fire victims on Thursday. In 2017 Property worth thousands of shillings was destroyed in a fire that razed 24 houses in Makina B, Kibera. On his part, Imran who is Ken Okoth's brother on Tuesday held a townhall meeting with grassroot officials from all Kibra wards at the AIC church ground in Woodley. The team was led by ODM chairman John Mbadi ,ODM secreatary general Edwin Sifuna and Director of campaigns Junet Mohammed.