Officials and school heads in Embu have been accused of making education expensive despite government efforts to make it free or affordable. County Education executive John Kiamati said education officials were colluding with public school heads to sabotage government efforts to ensure every child gets education. While speaking to reporters in Embu town on Tuesday, Kiamati said primary schools were collecting examination money from parents. "The government has already rolled out the Competency Based Curriculum and Grade 3 pupils are being assessed, but parents of those pupils are still being asked to pay for the exams," said Kiamati. The CEC said some schools were charging for remedial classes despite a ban imposed on extra tuition years ago. "We are aware that schools are holding tuition over the weekend and charging parents for the same. We all know it is illegal and teachers are supposed to follow the Education Ministry's regulations," he said. However, Eastern regional director for education Patrick Khaemba said parents are not supposed to pay for exams and tuition fees. He said that the ministry will do proper investigations and any head teacher or education officer found contravening the ministry's regulation will face the full wrath of the law. "I urge parents to volunteer information that will help us do investigations," he said. The county education minister said that curriculum support officers, subcounty education officers and county education officers were aware of the vice but turned a blind eye since they get a share of the money collected. "There is no way that this can happen without their knowledge. They are colluding with the head teachers. They are protecting the school heads," he said. Kiamati said public day secondary schools are forcing Form 4 students to pay for boarding so that they can have ample time to study and revise. He said the government has been pushing for free primary and day secondary school education but the schools were contravening the law and burdening poor parents.