Football Kenya Federation (FKF) National Super League (NSL) debutants Northern Wanderers, Vihiga Bullets and Administration Police Service (APS) Bomet go into Round 4 seeking their maiden wins today. Murang'a Seal, the other team which is making their NSL bow, have four points from one win and a draw so far. Vihiga Bullets picked their first point of the season after holding Murang'a Seal to a barren draw last week. Today, the bottom of the table Northern Wanderers will be at Awendo Green Stadium to face rejuvenated Migori Youth. After losing two opening matches, the Migori County-based team last weekend upset Coast Stima 2-1 in Mombasa. APS Bomet coached by Sebastian Owino will be away in Thika against Fortune Sacco while Vihiga Bullets welcome Modern Coast Rangers at Mumias Sports Complex. Regular campaigners Kenya Police winless after two games will be at Ruaraka to battle Mt Kenya United. Log leaders Nairobi Stima and second-placed Bidco, the only teams with 100 per cent record will seek to maintain their unbeaten run. Nairobi Stima who missed promotion to the top tier league narrowly after losing in a relegation/promotion playoff will face third-placed Ushuru at Karuturi grounds while Bidco host Jonathan Jackson Foundation-owned Nairobi City Stars at Thika Stadium. Vihiga United, who were relegated from the top tier league will be at home at Mumias  Complex against Murang'a Seal while Kibera Black Stars will battle Administration Police at Camp Toyoyo. FC Talanta, coached by veteran Juma Abdalla, will be up against Coast Stima with cash-strapped Shabana hosting St Joseph's Youth at Gusii Stadium. Coach Gilbert Selebwa's charges are seeking a third straight win. However, coach Selebwa's biggest headache is the defence which has conceded goals in all their three opening games. Selebwa welcomes speedy winger Dennis Onyancha who missed three opening matches due to personal commitments. Shabana will miss the services of striker Philbert Ochieng while Ismael Musa and Emmanuel Nankwo will undergo late fitness tests. 