City farmers are set to benefit from a City Hall programme aimed at boosting crop and livestock production. The food strategy programme will enhance urban farming and ensure sustainable agricultural land use for improved quality of life. Nairobi has close to 100,000 farmers who practice small scale agriculture but are threatened by the increasing population that is taking up more land for residential purposes. Agriculture county executive Pauline Kahiga said that the county will work closely with farmers to ensure agricultural diversification and introduce them to new technologies. “We have to help our farmers raise production levels to help meet consumer demands. That is why we are thinking of new technologies,” she said. Farming in Nairobi mostly practised in Dagoreti, Utawala, Ruai, Mwiki, Komarock and parts of Nairobi West. Most farmers produce vegetables in greenhouses and through micro-gardening in places with limited space. In the current financial year, Sh126 million has been set aside to advance food security measures and it is set to give incentives to farmers as well. At the moment, the county is focusing on urban gardening in line with the Sustainable Development Goals and Kenya Vision 2030. It has been working with farmer groups and schools, where the young people and families are assisted to grow their own food and eat a nutritious diet. “By developing high-quality products and improving access to markets, we help vulnerable groups, such as unemployed youth, to increase their income and improve food security in the long term,” Kahiga said. In the last two years, the county reached 19,891 farmers through extension officers and numerous training workshops held to help improve farming in the city. Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko said that the city has great potential and many of its residents are innovative. He explained that youth from colleges and universities can use the skills acquired from the institutions and make it useful. “We have many youths in Nairobi especially those from colleges and universities. They can improve Nairobi's agricultural sector with innovations," Sonko said.