West Pokot County will host this year’s national Wipe-Out-Illiteracy Day on Monday at Makutano Stadium. The county was chosen because of the high number of learnings attending adult classes. It has more than  10,000 learners across 277 learning centres. Speaking the Star on Phone, West Pokot Governor John Lonyangapuo said that he was happy the government was lower illiteracy levels. “ I want to ensure illiteracy levels in this county reduce. That's why we have turned our nursery school centres into adult education centres in the afternoon,” he said. He said he wants to able sure all residents are able to read and write before his term comes to an end. Illiteracy stands at 67  per cent in West Pokot. The celebrations come after over 2,300 adult education learners from West Pokot sat for the proficiency exam to enable them further their studies. Speaking to the Star this morning, outgoing county Education executive  Christine Apokoreng said that this is the highest number the county has recorded. Aporokeng said for the past two years the county had recorded high numbers of adult education learners in the county after the county set up adult learning centres. Apokoreng , who has  been moved to head Public Works, Transport and Roads, said that out 2,300 learners who sat for the exam 1,489 passed and will move to next level. She said some learners will be able to join formal learning where they will be able to sit for national exams. “Some will be able to join vocational centres to learn skills so they can earn a living,” Apokoreng said. The CECM, who headed Education for two years, urged the learners to be consistent in attending classes so that they can pass exams. “Most learners don’t come to school daily and this hinders some of them in passing the proficiency exam,” she said. One learner, Joshua Akolem, said that most learners are unable to attend classes daily since they need to look for food for their families. “Most learners are parents and they need to juggle between taking care of their children and attending school,” he said. He also said that some of the learners had abandoned school and move with their animals in search of pastures and water. He urged the county government to employ mobile adult education mobilisers so they can move with learners during dry spells. (Edited by V. Graham)