It’s easy to get depressed looking at the curriculum vitae (CV) of professionals on LinkedIn. Some qualifications are intimidating, however, it’s a common phenomenon. Now it’s easy to find professionals with more degrees than a thermometer and it’s impressive. In a world full of distractions, sometimes, not even an impressive collection of degrees can save you. The demand for people’s attention can be intense. Many of these highly skilled professionals succumb to the pressure of distraction, which in turn, waters down the effectiveness of their degrees. Distracted professionals are seldom able to focus and stay consistent on their journey. It is useless to be highly skilled and lack the discipline to see tasks through. So, how do you deal with it? How do you build your consistency muscle? Here are three tips. Have a Strong WHY: Let’s start with the basics. Beyond your impressive resume, why do you do what you do? What is your driving force? Why do you wake up early and sleep late? What is the purpose of your professional effort? These are key questions to ask in your professional journey because your WHY powers your daily effort. It’s important to be clear about why you do what you do. Your WHY must be truly compelling. It has to be strong enough to give you the daily push that you need to move forward. Those with weak WHYs find it difficult to stay the course. But, when your WHY is strong, consistency is easier to achieve. Secure Small Wins: On your professional journey, it’s easy to get demotivated and feel like you don’t have the strength to keep pushing. That’s why it’s vital to secure small wins consistently. It is important to note that: small wins motivate. Now, think about this: when last did you secure a small win? Small wins should be frequent. This means that you should do your best to ensure that the time-gap between each small win isn’t wide. Here, endeavor to move from win to win as fast as you can. This enhances your self-motivation and in turn, powers consistency. Be Accountable: It’s easy to get frustrated and give up on a task, especially when things get tough. Hence, the need for accountability. You need someone who can hold you to your commitment and ensure that you stay the course. Ideally, consistency is a team effort. It’s wise not to walk the journey alone. Find someone who can help you stay consistent; it works best that way. Email: smpamugo@gmail.com