Five magistrates and several senior court staff in Eldoret are under investigation for allegedly approving the use of fake documents to secure the release of crime suspects. Some of the magistrates have recorded statements with the Directorate of Criminal Investigations. Yesterday, acting Uasin Gishu DCI boss Linah Kabaila said they have deployed investigators to the courts. Fifteen people have been interrogated over claims they conspired to defeat justice by allowing some suspects to present forged documents so they could be released on bond or bail pending the hearing of their cases. Already, two people implicated in the forgery of a land title and the use of the document to secure the release of suspects have been arraigned and charged. Patrick Ambetsa and Fred Kemoi denied 11 counts related to forgery when they appeared before Eldoret senior principal magistrate Richard Odenyo last week. Others will follow suit. The two are said to have forged a title deed of about an acre and presented it to Eldoret principal magistrate Naomi Wairimu to stand as surety to Isaac Kiptarbei in a criminal case. The alleged scam is said to have been going on for many years. The probe has caused tension among staff, some of whom have been questioned over frequent disappearance of files, a problem blamed for delayed hearings. The forged documents include medical reports, P3 forms, title deeds, logbooks and payslips. “The investigations have started and officers have already questioned some of the senior and support staff who its claimed are involved in the syndicate,” Kabaila said. Some of the suspects wanted for questioning by the DCI are on leave but will be summoned soon. The police are also going after those said to have printed the documents. “We will question all those involved and then take action once we get adequate evidence,” Kabaila said. It’s expected that a file on the matter will be forwarded to the DPP soon so he advises on the way forward. “We want to tighten all loose ends before forwarding our final report related to investigations into claims of fake documents in courts to DPP Noordin Haji for action,” Kabaila added. (Edited by F'Orieny)