Details of how taxpayers could be losing billions of shillings in dirty tactics by Kenya Revenue Authority officials have put the taxman on the spot. Some rogue officers have allegedly used loopholes in the tax management system to pay falsified refunds, delete records and approve tax returns without documentary support. MPs at the Public Investments Committee chaired by Abdulswamad Nassir on  Wednesday described the scheme as 'another Goldenberg scandal in the making'. The committee warned that there was a bigger risk in the face of revelations that KRA pays out an average Sh14.5 billion in refunds annually. The remarks followed a report by outgoing Auditor General Edward Ouko which showed that KRA irregularly refunded more than Sh1.8 billion in 2014-15 alone. Out of this was Sh14 million which was extended to a company purported to be dealing in oil exports yet it wasn’t. Ainushsamshi Energy was refunded the amount in respect of input taxes attributable to zero-rated fuel exports. The auditor said a physical inspection of the register at Malaba and Busia border points showed that the company did not export any goods. “The company was not an exporter of fuel during the period under review as the company’s name was not in the maintained rotation register,” Ouko said. MPs directed further investigations into the case to unearth similar instances where taxpayers could be losing resources. They recommended action against the officers who occasioned the irregularities and the probe extended to the entire system to seal the loopholes. The taxman is also on the spot for failing to collect Sh158 billion in tax arrears as at June 2015, in the wake of concerns the tax agency has over the years failed to meet its targets. On irregular refunds, 17 taxpayers claimed Sh1.3 billion and were paid refunds but records show they did not submit exit reports and certificate of export. Another Sh901 million was refunded to 23 firms yet the entities had outstanding tax liabilities amounting to Sh4.6 billion, in contravention of the KRA refunds procedure. Commissioner General Githii Mburu attributed the case to historical challenges with the Legacy System which the authority has since stopped using. “A data cleaning initiative is in progress to further refine the data on debt,” he told the lawmakers, adding the actual debt is Sh67 billion with the rest of the amounts being penalties and interest on penalties. The auditors said the verification of the unpaid taxes has been impossible as KRA has not issued details of what each taxpayer owes the agency. KRA commissioner for domestic taxes Elizabeth Meyo said the details would be provided by Friday amid queries by MPs on why it has taken over four years to collect the dues. Another query arose from income tax declarations amounting to Sh3.68 billion without making corresponding payments of taxes declared. Mburu said Sh619 million of the outstanding amount has been paid adding that Sh326 million is being pursued through data capture collections. “A debt of Sh2.6 billion was owed by one company. The amount was reduced to Sh1.6 billion but the company went into liquidation following a loan owed to a bank. KRA’s debt has been considered but the issue is in court after the company sued to stop the sale,” the commissioner said. Nassir warned that there was the possibility that many taxpayers have not paid their dues since the cases highlighted in the audit was only a sample. The taxman also faces queries regarding variances in revenue collected, uncancelled security bonds, entries deleted from the Simba 2005 system, and unaccounted for imported petroleum products in transit to other single customs territory. Also flagged were diversions of transit goods to the local market and failure to collect Petroleum Development Levy on bitumen supplied by various contractors. The agency was also reprimanded for failing to collect taxes amounting to Sh145 million from compliance checks. Two stations; Kakamega and Thika, conducted the compliance checks in which the money in respect of turnover tax, PAYE, VAT and withholding tax were not collected. On this, Mburu said Sh112 million has since been collected. He added that Sh32 million was owed by Presbyterian University, which has since applied for a waiver of the same. In law, KRA has no mandate to pursue a tax debt once an entity applies for a waiver, a situation MPs said would be subject to abuse. Auditors, however, held that the taxman has not provided evidence to show that the taxes due have been settled. The taxman was also flagged over its debt management operations deemed ineffective in the face of revelations it has not enforced the collection of tax arrears at various stations. Mburu maintained that the system has proven to be working saying it has enabled them to recover Sh73 billion of which Sh28.7 billion was collected in 2016-17. Edited by R.Wamochie