Boda boda operators will soon have legal access to Nairobi's CBD as the county government plans to assign them six designated pick-up and drop off points. The office of the Inspectorate, the department of Planning and city engineers will be on the ground to identify those areas. In an exclusive interview with the Star, Boda Boda Association of Kenya secretary general Kenneth Onyango said the areas will significantly reduce corruption "as operators are curently forced to bribe enforcement officers in order to do smooth business". “Boda bodas, as we speak, lack acceptable common pick-up and drop-off points. We are yet to identify them because we will go on the ground together, but it is just within the CBD.” He added, “Most of our clients are so confused about where to pick a ride. Boda boda riders nowadays are mobile. So the more urgently this issue is handled, the better and this will increase revenue in our pockets,” Onyango told the Star. Last year, boda bodas were banned from the CBD by Governor Mike Sonko who cited congestion and insecurity. Rider Kenneth Ouma praised the decision saying he will be able to get many customers to feed his family. "I am happy that the county government has finally considered returning us to the CBD. Life will become less stressful. For a moment, they forgot that we also have families to feed. At least we will not be disturbed by county askaris and police officers," he said. When boda bodas first came, there was no government policy that restricted them from doing anything. Some still risk operating within the CBD, operating on the wrong side of the road, endangering their lives, those of their passengers and other road users. It has been a cat and mouse game between the city Inspectorate and the riders, leading to the involvement of police officers who would arrest them and impound their motorcycles. This year, deaths caused by boda bodas have risen by 27 per cent over last year. nationally A report by the National Transport and Safety Authority 2019 indicates that at least 684 people have died in motorcycle-related accidents countrywide. Nairobi was leading with 275 fatalities as of August 19. For riders, 459 deaths were recorded compared with last year's 365 deaths. Further, motorcycles that are still impounded by police officers will not be released and operators who violated the law will have to follow the court procedure before they are released. On June 1, Sonko released more 800 motorcycles that were impounded last year unconditionally. Edited by R.Wamochie