Businesses in Embu are not accepting the old Sh1,000 notes and residents are troubled as the September 30 Central Bank of Kenya deadline draws near. The Star yesterday saw notices pasted on various business premises in the town advising customers that they are not receiving the notes. A spot check revealed that hotels have not been taking the old notes from September 15. Residents who spoke to the Star said they have been trying to use the money in bars and restaurants with the assumption that business owners will take the money to the bank in bulk. Resident Jonathan Gitonga told journalists outside one of the hotels in Embu town that he had only one note of Sh1,000 and he did not see the need of going to the bank to exchange it. "I decided to go to a hotel to have breakfast, but I found big notices indicating that the hotel was not accepting the old Sh1,000 notes," he said. Residents said business people go to banks regularly to make deposits and withdrawals. They are better placed to exchange the cash, the residents said. Bar and restaurant owners said that they stopped collecting the old notes before the deadline to encourage customers to go and exchange the money and get new notes. Runyenjes hotel manager Eunice Muthoni said residents used to hold parties in hotels and pay huge amounts of money using the old notes before hotel owners stopped taking the cash. "Just last week, customers would come in groups, have fun, spend heavily and pay with Sh1,000 only. I don't know why they are not willing to take the money to the bank," Muthoni said. Embu Chamber of Commerce chairman John Mate urged the business community to accept the old notes since they access banks almost on a daily basis. "The deadline is days away. I urge business people to accept the old notes. This is the group of people that can go to the bank every morning or evening to deposit the day's collection," Mate said. Other business outlets have issued notices setting their own deadlined. They include M-Pesa shops, supermarkets, petrol stations and vegetable vendors. The Central Bank of Kenya said it is not in a position to stop businesses from setting their own deadlines for receiving the old notes. CBK Governor Patrick Njoroge said businesses have their own mechanism to ensure that they are have valid notes ahead of the deadline.