The Kenya Association of Manufacturers (KAM) and e-commerce players in the country  have partnered to boost manufacturing SMEs' access to local and international markets. E-commerce uptake in Kenya still remains low despite its immense benefits. The partnership,  seeks to promote the uptake of e-commerce by SMEs to enable them gain access to global markets and new international customers and reinvent their business models to align with changing technologies. The e-commerce players include Amari Consulting, Jumia Kenya and DHL Express, Grofin Kenya and Amitruck. The partnership, therefore, seeks to promote the uptake of e-commerce by SMEs to enable them gain access to global markets and new international customers. According to KAM board member and SME Hub Chair Ciiru Waithaka,the increased attention on SME growth, both at a national and global scale, points to a reckoning that the future of business hinges on their success. “The unique and dynamic nature of SMEs in the manufacturing sector calls for an adaptive approach in developing policies and interventions that most importantly centres their needs and proposed solutions in the process,” Waithaka said. “It is through partnerships such as these that we can grow small and medium industries to be substantial players in our country’s vision for sustainable economic growth,” she added. Jumia Kenya Managing Director, Sam Chappatte, said despite good internet connectivity, Kenya’s e-commerce uptake  remains low. “Our mission is to leverage technology to grow markets and build marketplaces that solve everyday problems. E-commerce is a fast-growing, low-cost sales channel. We are excited to partner with KAM to support SME growth,” he said. DHL Express Kenya Country Manager, Andrew Mutuma noted: said Kenyan businesses should  grab their share of the e-c0mmerce market through value addition. KAM recently launched a manufacturing SME Hub aimed at  uplifting micro, small and medium businesses in value addition towards achieving the 15 per cent targeted growth of the sector by 2022.