Gem MP Elisha Odhiambo has protested efforts by the Ombudsman to have him arrested and charged with assault. Last month, the Commission on Administrative Justice, also known as the Ombudsman, gave Kisumu police boss Henry Simiyu 21 days to explain the failure to apprehend the first-term legislator. Odhiambo allegedly assaulted blogger Maurice Oduor, alias Don Pablo, on June 6. A person alleged to be Odhiambo was captured in a video recording assaulting the blogger for posting ‘malicious’ information about him on Facebook. But in a letter to the CAJ dated September 3, the MP said the push to have him arrested and charged is political. He questioned why the commission is hell-bent on having him arrested, yet the investigations into the incident have not been concluded. “Our client is concerned that the said complainant and his advocates are exerting unwarranted pressure through your office to have our client charged, despite incomplete investigations,” Odhiambo protested through lawyer E.U Oruenjo. The MP read political mischief in the whole matter, saying the complainant’s lawyer, Jared Sala, represented his political rival Jakoyo Midiwo in a petition in which the latter challenged his 2017 election victory. “Our client contents that the two complaints have become purely political and that the investigators may be receiving unwarranted pressure from third parties to arrest and charge our client even before the investigations are completed,” Oruenjo said. “It can’t be gainsaid that the pressure exerted on the investigators to charge our client is purely political. The other complainant has gone ahead to publish content that may incite the public against our client and consequently influence the ongoing investigations.” Odhiambo wrested the seat from Midiwo, who had served for three terms ( 2002-2017 ). Midiwo unsuccessfully appealed against his win. The lawmaker also wrote to DCI boss George Kinoti seeking to have the case transferred to the DCI headquarters along Kiambu Road for fair prosecution. “Our client is apprehensive that if the files with the investigators are not transferred to the DCI’s headquarters or the outcome of the investigations to the DPP’s headquarters, then our client stand to be greatly prejudiced as his rights to a fair hearing and administration action will be infringed,” the letter dated July 19 said. The MP, through his lawyer, said the blogger, together with other people unknown to him, attacked him and hurled stones at his vehicle on June 4. Later in the day, he reported the matter to the Kisumu Central Police station under OB No.94/4/6/19, only to find the complainant had already reported a “different version” of what took place under OB No. 70/04/06/19. “Both matters are still under investigations and our client was informed to go back to the Kisumu Central Police station on August 1, 2019, when the parties will be informed of the outcome of the ongoing investigations,” Oruenjo said. Odhiambo also lamented about the reluctance by the investigators to take a statement from his four witnesses. He implored the Ombudsman to demand action against the complainant as well in the interest of justice and fairness. “Our client is humbly requesting your good office to look into both complaints captured as OB No.94/4/6/19 and OB Number 70/04/06/19 to have a full picture of what transpired and make a fair determination to all the parties,” Oruenjo said. (Edited by F'Orieny)