Pascaline Wangechi left home for Mt Kenya Hospital in Nyeri county for delivery, hoping she would get good services. What followed over a year was a cascade of medical problems from a C-section, including a serious kidney infection that required three surgeries, a cut in the urinary bladder, endometriosis, great pain and loss of blood, and need for more medical treatment. She cannot afford treatment and is appealing for help. If the county doesn't cover her expenses, Wangechi said she will go to court. The hospital communications department and the head of medical services declined comment and referred all queries to the county CEC for Health Rachel Kamau. A year ago  Kamau had made a statement to MCAs. She denied negligence. Kamau told the county Health committee on June 28, 2018, the hospital has no plans to compensate Wangechi since complications were addressed by specialists. This is Wangechi's saga: She also had to stay with the catheter until the bladder healed through which time she passed bloody urine. Medics referred her to another facility for an ultrasound but told to hire a taxi and look for someone to help her carry the baby. “I informed the governor that the surgery went wrong and I was struggling to pay for the expenses which in the first place I did not expect would arise,” she said adding that the Linda Mama she was relying on could not help anymore. “ I was using Linda mama which after complications arose I was informed that I had to foot my hospital bills,” she explains. Governor Mutahi Kahiga visited her twice in the company of the CEC for Health Rachel Kamau and other county government officials who assured her that they would cater for all her medical bills, a promise she said was not fulfilled. However, Kahiga denied Wangechi was abandoned and said the county has done a lot for her. He said there was a slight cut to the bladder but it was treated and the county took care of her throughout. “In the process, it was discovered that she had a problem with her kidney and we then assisted her to get treatment,” he told the Star. Wangechi said, “I was discharged after almost three weeks but went back to the hospital after four days because I was bleeding excessively and was in pain on my right side,” she said.  At  Consolata Hospital, Mathari, established that her right kidney and urethra were swollen. The CEC sent a team of specialists for emergency surgery to save the left kidney because the right one was swollen, an operation performed at the county referral hospital. A stent was inserted  to channel urine from the right kidney to the bladder. But her health continued deteriorating and she was taken to Outspan where she underwent some tests and blood transfusion  as she had lost a lot of blood. Wangechi also started experiencing pain in the abdomen and excessive bleeding. Scans revealed she had endometriosis caused by infection in the uterus. The Caesarian section scar was infected,  prompting medics to reopened it and drain the pus. It was to stay open until it healed. “I was discharged but the wound was still partly open. I sought a second opinion at Consolata Hospital because the wound was still oozing pus,” she said. Barely a month after being discharged, the stent  shifted position, causing pain on theright side and it had to be removed. The removal was in a private facility as the doctor who had inserted it had resigned from government services. By then, the county government had stopped offering any assistance to her and she had to depend on well wishers. “A few weeks ago, I was admitted at Mathari because my kidney was swollen. I had a kidney infection and had to stay in hospital for a while. "Then I was given a referral tosee a neurologist but up to now I haven’t gone because I don’t have money,” she said. Wangechi survives on painkillers. In June 2018, the CEC for Health, in a statement to the Health Services Committee at the County Assembly, said there was no professional negligence resulting in the bladder injuries. It was a surgical complication resulting from multiple previous surgical operations on the same site, she said. She had delivered her other child three ears earlier through CS. “Kindly note that all medical and surgical procedures carry a certain level of risk and that is why patients sign written informed consent before surgery,” she stated. On why the hospital failed to provide the patient with an ambulance and nurse, the CEC said the department offered support necessary for her well being. She told the committee the hospital supported her in both material and medical support like any other patient admitted. This was after the committee enquired why the patient was made to cater for the expenses of transport and procedures during referrals. She added that the hospital had no plans to compensate the patient for the mishap adding that the complication was addressed immediately by a team of specialists. The CEC also denied the patient had excessive bleeding. “Her haemoglobin levels were normal at the time of discharge and were noted to have increased during her subsequent medical review,” she stated. Director of Medical Services Nelson Muriu admitted that the bladder was cut, saying doctors had difficulties during the C-Section as she had three previous surgeries. He said a surgery for a person who has undergone several others was not as straightforward as a first surgery. Muriu said the county did everything humanly possible to assist her. The director further said she has been attended to by several professionals. He said if one  is not not satisfied with services offered, they have the option of going to the Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Board to present their case. He said she has not done so for the last year. (Edited by BV. Graham)