Yara Fertiliser has partnered with Kenya Seed to help farmers increase the production of both commercial and seed maize to enhance food security. Through the provision of certified seeds and low acidity and soil friendly fertilisers, farmers have started realising increased production in both commercial and seed maize. The two companies have also formed a networking group of agro-economists who offer training on best farming practices. During a farmers' field day at Shambarere Farm in Endebess constituency, some of the farmers revealed how they have benefited from the venture which has helped them achieve double production in the recent past. Farmer Joseph Njuguna, who is the beneficiary of the partnership, said his production in commercial maize has scaled up from 25 bags to 45 bags per acre. Njuguna, who is also seed grower, said the production has increased from 1,500kg to 2,600kg per acre. Njuguna told farmers how a friend persuaded and pulled him out of low paying business to try hand in seed growing. "When my friend advised me to try it, I saw it as an expensive venture but since I shifted to both commercial and seed maize, my farming has become a lucrative business. The yields and returns are encouraging." Before he got the support from the partnership of the two firms, the farmer said, his previous harvest was 25 bags per acre. "After I sourced farm inputs from the two firms coupled with timely planting, I have been able to produce 45 bags from one acre. I have 20 acres and this gives 900 bags and I receive Sh27 million after selling the crop,’’ Njuguna said. He ventured into seed maize growing after being contracted by Kenya Seed Company. "Before I started using Yara Mila fertiliser, I was getting 1,500kg per acre. I target to hit 3,000kg per acre." Njuguna is a small scale farmer optimistic to become go large scale. Yara Commercial Director Vitalis Wafula said the company has unveiled a new product which helps in the uptake of fertiliser by crops. He said the new product also helps in the structural strength of the crop and prevents falling during wind period. Edited by R.Wamochie