The Kenya Forest Service has mapped out 350 forest blocks, including major water towers, for enhanced conservation and protection. The chief conservator of Forests Julius Kamau said human encroachment and fires have threatened forests. “We are partnering with counties and other institutions to protect forest blocks to ensure continued access to clean water and a good environment,” Kamau said. He said KFS was committed to protecting the forests while working closely with the public and relevant institutions. “When we act on issues to protect and conserve our forests it’s not because we are enemies of the people. We want to secure the forests for our current and future generations,” Kamau said. He spoke in Eldoret during the launch of a tree planting exercise in the region. Kamau said the destruction of water towers would lead to disasters like drought and food shortage in many parts of the country. Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago said his administration aims to plant 5 million tree seedlings during this year’s short rain season. Mandago said the target would be achieved through working in collaboration with Kenya Forest Service, local institutions and the residents.  “KFS  has championed collaborative approaches towards conservation and afforestation. We have no conflict with KFS as far as conservation of forests is concerned,” Mandago said. He asked KFS to help in the process of making Kaptagat forest gazetted and protected as a water tower. Kaptagat forest belt is the source of about 20 streams which join rivers flowing into lake Turkana and Victoria. “My administration welcomes KFS to work with us on commercialising of forests especially for the production of timber,” Mandago said. Environment executive Mary Njogu said her department with help from KFS had planted 13 million trees in the last two rainy seasons. This was done in public institutions, along rivers and around water sources like springs, swamps and dams. “The county government, KFS and the residents have established strong forest conservation associations to protect our forests. We commit to supporting these associations,” Njogu said. Kamau said KFS will work with the communities in Kapseret area in Uasin Gishu to establish an eco-lodge at Kapsaret Forest whose proceeds will benefit the residents. Also present during the event were North Rift chief conservator Benjamin Kanyili, environment chief officer Simon Kemei among other government officials.