Danny Rose has vowed to have his say on his turbulent summer with Tottenham, but insists he has nothing to prove. The left-back was made available for transfer and left off the club’s pre-season tour to Asia as his time with Spurs looked to be over. Yet, unable to secure a move away, he has since started all four of Tottenham’s Premier League games this season and was also handed an England start in the Euro 2020 qualifier against Bulgaria on Saturday. Rose, who is not afraid to be outspoken, is so far keeping his powder dry and says he is happy at how things have played out. “It wasn’t tough, it is what it is,” he said. “Not everything that was publicised in the summer was entirely true and I think in the future I will have my say on everything that happened but I don’t want to focus on negativity at the minute.” “I guess I should be happy with maybe being up for sale and having started the first four games for Tottenham and the first England game of the campaign. I can’t lie I am very happy, but I just want to say that everything that was written in the summer wasn’t entirely true.” Pochettino has been open to selling Rose for the last three transfer windows, but he has always remained the Argentinian’s first-choice left-back. Despite his precarious position at Spurs, Rose takes comfort in the faith his manager has in him. “I don’t need to prove myself to anybody,” he said. “I have a manager at club level who knows me. You look at last season, I played in the quarter-final of the Champions League, I played semi-finals of the Champions League, I played in the final. So I’ve got a manager there who believes in me.” “Then if you look at international I’ve got a manager that whenever I’ve been available for selection I’ve been chosen. He fully believes in me and I’m very grateful. I’m lucky to have managers at club level and international level who believe in me. I don’t feel I’ve got anything to prove to anybody and I feel as if I’ve done enough over the years to prove my worth.” “I obviously just want to repay everybody that’s shown faith in me and it’s been a great start to the campaign and I’m looking forward to what’s ahead.”