Kenyans are banking on the Judiciary to rid the country of drugs and corruption in the absence of official opposition, Nyali MP Mohammed Ali has said. Ali said the war on drugs at the Coast is commendable but there are bigger fish who need to be fried. The legislator said the DCI should tighten the noose on drug traffickers and money launderers. “We saw you raid the house of Ali Punjani and you want to arrest him over suspected links to narcotics. DPP and DCI, there are still bigger crooks here and we want them arrested for killing our children,” Ali said. He spoke on Monday during the opening of Pentrose Community Primary School in Shauri Yako in Nyali constituency. “You are the eyes of Kenya and the defenders of Kenyans. Don’t be intimidated by anyone,” Ali told judicial officers. He, however, said he would lead Kenyans in defending the Judiciary even with his own life. “Do not spare anyone because of threats. Mohammed Ali is with you,” he said. The former TV journalist reignited his political war with Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho’s family, saying their reported cargo deal with the Kenya Railways Corporation is suspect and should be probed. “We want you to take action against the Mombasa governor’s family. We will not allow the poor to suffer because of one family,” Ali told the DCI and the DPP. The Joho family firm, Autoport Freight Terminals Ltd, has successfully taken over the Nairobi Freight Terminals (NFT) to handle its loose cargo transportation business on the Mombasa-Nairobi SGR business, according to the Sunday Nation. The deal, which the Kenya Railways Corporation allowed under immense pressure according to the report, gives Autoport monopoly over rivals. However, Joho allies defended the family saying the loss of jobs at the Mombasa port is because of poor policies that the government adopted which were not well-thought-out. Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir said Joho is fighting for the whole of the Coast region, contrary to Ali’s assertion. “Ali should get his facts right before speaking. The governor is thinking about the region’s economy and that is why he is organising a meeting between the President and Coast leaders to discuss the region’s economy,” Nassir said. Last Monday, Joho, who made peace with President Uhuru after months of political rivalry over the SGR, said it is now time for dialogue. The governor said leaders should dialogue instead of bickering at each other whenever there are differences. Ali on Monday said it is curious that Governor Joho, who was vocal against government’s plan to develop dry ports in Naivasha and Nairobi to handle the SGR cargo, has suddenly gone quiet after the handshake. “When they were seeking votes, they told you the Mombasa port was being transferred to Naivasha. Now they have been given the Nairobi and Naivasha business where their cargo will pass, they are quiet,”  Ali said.