The corrupt have every reason to be afraid, very afraid. Sources whisper to Corridors that the no-nonsense Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission CEO Twalib Mbarak is in London with top detectives. They are holding meetings with the National Crime Agency in a bid to recover assets looted by Kenyan officials and stashed abroad. Graft, as Pope Francis once remarked, must be fought because it is paid by the poor. A prestigious hotel in Nairobi is a subject of talk amid claims it is the point where persons seeking to bribe their way out of court cases, parliamentary probes, and police investigations meet to close dirty deals. A member of an oversight committee of the National Assembly was yesterday overheard criticising his colleagues who he says frequent the classy hotel, especially during studies of books of accounts in respect of certain state entities. Our mole intimates that the deals are transacted in two adjacent rooms, which on inspection, appear constructed for the purpose. Sweeping changes are coming in one of the offices in the presidency and the staff is in panic mode. Corridors is informed by a mole in the office who is aware of the changes to be effected before the end of the month. The mole whispers that incompetent individuals in the Communications department who have been targeted in the changes are worried. They've been running up and down, approaching and lobbying key politicians to help them retain their positions. However, Corridors has learnt that the boss in that office has made up his mind that the officers must go as they are the reason for negative media coverage and failure to craft clear messaging to the public. A governor in Central region is becoming a thorn in the flesh of health workers in one of the big health facilities where he has strategically stationed youths at key locations and even wards to police health workers. The youths mostly from his former campaign team are said to be all over the facility with instructions to report any fault on the part of the health workers and relay the same to their boss. They are said to be armed with digital phone cameras to record any acts of omission or commission by doctors and instances of the slightest altercation with the patients.TYhis intelligence is then transmitted unedited to the governor. Tired of the policing, many health workers in the facility are now pushing for transfers, saying they cannot be subjected to unnecessary monitoring by nonprofessionals.