The government has been urged to do more to cushion local farmers from harsh conditions locally and pressure from imports. The Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry president Richard Ngatia said the push to protect local farmers “from business conditions for both domestic and international markets,” has been a priority. Farmers have complained about an influx of agricultural products such as eggs, fruits and vegetables from other countries. Growers of cash crops such as coffee, tea and sugarcane have also lamented low returns, leading to many of them uprooting the crop. In a report to be launched next week to mark Ngatia's 100 days in office, he singles out three major drawbacks to commercial farming in Kenya. These include low incentives on agricultural inputs such as fertilizer, poor agricultural value chains for minor cash crops and exploitation of farmers by middlemen. Last week, Nyeri Senator Ephraim Maina warned that failure to cushion local farmers will push more people to joblessness, poverty and rise of crime. He said youth will be worst affected and hence a threat to country’s security. On youth, Ngatia said the chamber has partnered with the Gender and Youth cabinet secretary to urge special groups to apply for the 30 per cent government tenders. There is over Sh300 billion meant for youths, women and people with disability under the Access to Government Procurement Opportunities (Agpo) programme. The president said the chamber is working closely with the national and county governments to reduce the number of licences required before setting up a business. He has spoken with the President's advisor on Small and Medium Enterprises Anne Mutahi on priority areas of collaboration in advancing the interests of SMEs across the country. “Among key issues was establishing a viable ecosystem for startups to ensure they access to credit, get tax incentives and are enabled to become sustainable through an incubation process that will see more SMEs survive their two-year setup stage,” Ngatia said. Last week, Ngatia was elected as the inaugural chairperson of the Great Lakes Region Private Sector Forum during the regional GLR 2019 General Assembly involving all the twelve member states held in Nairobi. (edited by O. Owino)