Two MPs allied to Deputy President William Ruto are feuding over control over the Jubilee party in Bungoma. Kimilili MP Didmus Barasa led a coup that removed John Waluke as Jubilee chairman of the Bungoma branch. Waluke dismissed his removal as theatrics and "child's play", accusing Barasa of ignorance of party matters. Over the weekend, Barasa led MCAs allied to Jubilee in removing the entire office chaired by Waluke. They claimed that Waluke had failed to properly run party activities, saying the party needs young and visionary leaders to improve is declining popularity. “Since Waluke was elected in 2017, he hasn’t convened even one meeting to discuss party issues. For this reason, the membership has decided to kick him out and appointed me to lead them,” Barasa said. During the meeting, all elected MCAs endorsed new party officials to serve until March 2020 when new officials will be elected. Barasa accused  Waluke of high-handedness and running the party with "military tricks". “Young, educated leaders will help grow the party, the era of dictatorship passed long time ago, we must consult and plan things together for its success,” he said. The county has four elected Jubilee MPs: Fred Kapondi (Mt Elgon), Didmus Barasa (Kimilili), Dan Wanyama (Webuye West) and John Waluke (Sirisia). The new interim officials are chairman Didmus Barasa, vice chairman for strategy Dan Wanyama, vice chairman for operations Moses Sikuta, secretary general MCA Chesikaki Ben Kipkut, deputy secretary general  Leonard Muyelele, organising secretary Martin Wanyonyi,  deputy organising secretary Lwandanyi MCA Tony Barasa, deputy  organising secretary for strategy Jane Chepernge, woman leader Reginalda Wanyonyi and chairman of the Parliamentary caucus Fred Kapondi. Waluke called Barasa for insincere, and called his removal null and void and said he was the legitimate party chairman. “It is laughable that the assembled people who have never been officials have allocated positions to themselves," he said. He said the national office doesn’t recognise the Barasa-led faction, calling the coup "pure theatrics". Waluke said he had no personal differences with Barasa. He said the Kimilili MP only got offended when he said on a local station that he gets the iron sheets he distributes in his constituency from Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa. “I don’t know why he got offended yet it is true that the iron sheets he has been going around purporting to be donating are from the Devolution ministry," Waluke said. (Edited by V. Graham)