27th Koroga Festival Festival-goers are gearing up for a big weekend at the Two Rivers Mall in Nairobi. The 27th edition of the Koroga Festival runs on Saturday to Sunday, with Ivorian-born reggae superstar Alpha Blondy headlining the event. Performing on the first day of the festival will be The Decimators, Zzero Sufuri, Sailors, DJ Schwaz, DJ Slick, DJ Rouge and DJ Joe Mfalme. Wyre, Redsan, DJ Adrian and DJ Protege, who are also among the lineup, will set the pace on the second day for the headliner, who is expected will close the show with a remarkable live performance. Malian Blues by Vieux Farka Touré If you love live music and art, there's no time like the present when it comes to getting out and about in Nairobi. Alliance Française de Nairobi at 70 will on September 21 present Malian Blues by Vieux Farka Touré. Known as the Son of the Sahara and bearer of griot traditions, Malian guitarist and vocalist Vieux Farka Touré returns to Kenya to deliver yet another powerful performance. Alliance Française is currently showcasing the 'Kenyan Art Panorama, 70 years, 70 artists', which brings together works from different generations of Kenyan artistes who have all contributed to the vibrant Kenyan art scene and whose works have been shown in the historic galleries of this institution.  Anyone who has dived into artistry will agree that Jessica Atieno's line of thought is quite awe-inspiring. Her latest and second solo exhibit "To stand on a grain of wheat," which opened at the Red Hill Art Gallery in Nairobi on September 18, presents works inspired by human cell patterns. The exhibit is open to the public until September 29. Strictly Silk Here's a party for all the women who wish to express themselves without any limits and restrictions. The Nest Collective’s all-women dance party, dubbed "Strictly Silk", returns on September 21 from 5pm to 11pm at Ikigai, General Mathenge Drive, Nairobi. The party, which strictly adheres to a single-sex policy and that is in its third edition, presents performances from female deejays DJ Bee, DJ IV, Shishi and Ziggie. Strictly for women and femmes over the age of 21.