BY ALICE WAITHERA Residents of Murang’a have asked the newly formed municipal board to ensure the town remains clean at all times. They want an improved waste disposal management, saying piles of garbage have remained an eyesore for long. Residents who gave their views during a meeting with municipal board members said uncollected waste poses health risks. “Besides, heaps of wastes lying on the streets in the middle of the town give it an unpleasant look,” Peter Mburu said. Francis Manyeki attributed littered garbage to the many hawkers selling their wares along the streets. He said it had become a nightmare for public health officers to conduct inspections on eateries due to hawking of food. “They go to a hotel saying they want to conduct their checks and they are chased away. How can you inspect hotel standards when there are people cooking and selling foodstuffs on dusty streets? Manyeki said. Manyeki said streetlights installed in many parts of the town were faulty and asked the board to have them regularly maintained. Many have been vandalised, he said. “The lights go on in the morning and off at night when they are needed,” he said. Last month, Kenya Power manager for Murang’a town branch Harrison Kamau said over 150 streetlights had been vandalised. Kamau blamed the thefts to a syndicate with a ready market for the lights saying it was hampering efforts to facilitate a 24-hour economy. Board chairman Ben Githinji said upgrading the town will require the co-operation of all residents and stakeholders. “This is why we are conducting this public participation forum as a legal requirement to understand the priorities of residents,” he said. The meetings will be held after every four three months. He said views collected will be incorporated in the integrated development plan to be established by the board. Githinji said they were drafting a waste disposal policy to ensure town cleaning is done in more comprehensively. “In five years, we want to have transformed Murang’a town totally so that residents can review our scorecard and decide if we deserve another term,” he said. The board has already installed cabros in major streets. edited by peter obuya