National U-20 football team, Rising Stars' head coach Stanley Okumbi believes the availability of players with Kenyan Premier League experience is an advantage ahead of the forthcoming Cecafa U-20 Championships in Uganda. The team hit camp on Monday in readiness for the regional tournament set for  September 21 to October 5. Kenya are placed in Pool 'B' alongside Ethiopia, Zanzibar and Tanzania. Okumbi, who is expected to whittle his current squad of 28 players to 20 today, will have the luxury of selecting players who have had a season or two in the top flight and have further featured in the national U-23 team Emerging Stars before. Among the experienced players in the team are Kariobangi Sharks trio of Tom Teka, Sydney Lokale and Brian Bwire who are regular starters during club assignments. Other players, who Okumbi will look to build on their experience, are Western Stima's holding midfielder Fidel Origa, Brian Wepo who plies his trade with Nzoia Sugar, John Njuguna of Ulinzi Stars and Wazito's Musa Masika. “We have assembled a squad of players who have been in the top league for a season or two while others are in the second tier and the rest are just from school. "Some of the players have been in the team before and have advanced to the U-23 and the senior national team. "It's a big plus for us as we head to Uganda where we expect to have a good tournament. I have talked to the players and they know it's their chance to capitalize on the tournament and take their careers to the next level,” he said. The former Stars coach, however, promised a fair selection as players made it to the provisional squad by merit. Okumbi, who doubles up as Wazito's technical director, anticipates a tough group stage matches owing to the new football level the region has embraced. “Despite having experienced players, no one is guaranteed a place in the starting team. Every player in the team has shown quality and those who will prove themselves regardless of the league and club, they play will be considered for playing time.” The top three teams from Group A and B will join the top two from Group 'C' in the quarter-finals.