Six suspects in the Sh72 million heist, including three police officers, were tortured and beaten in police custody y and need immediate medical treatment, their lawyers said on Monday. Vincent Owuor's finger was pierced with a needle, pepper was forced into his system and he was threatened with simulated drowning — to force him to admit he was a police officer, lead lawyer Cliff Ombeta told the court. He isn't a police officer, he said. Another man, police Corporal Duncan Kaveshi, displayed head and arm injuries inflicted by what he said was a police beating. Ombeta said all men suffered injuries and require medical treatment. A Milimani court agreed that they should be taken to Kenyatta National Hospital for examination and treatment before a ruling on Tuesday on their continued detention. “The suspects will receive medical attention before the court rules on their detention on Tuesday at 2.30pm,” chief magistrate Martha Mutuku ruled. The suspects are AP officer Chris Machogu, AP officer Boniface Mutua, Corporal Duncan Luvuga, Vincent Owuor, Alex Mutuku and Francis Muriuki. Kaveshi displayed head and arm injuries, claiming he had been beaten by police. The six were arrested over the weekend and the police sought to detain them for seven days at Lang’ata police station. "The police pierced Owuor's finger with a needle and forced pepper into his system so that he could confess he is a police officer," Ombeta said. While in custody, police also threatened to unleash attack dogs on Owuor and even to push his head into water to simulate drowning if he did not confess to being a police officer. Despite the DCI asking for more time to search the suspects’ houses, the defence said all their houses have already been searched and their mattresses and ceilings seriously tampered with. The prosecution asked the court to rule as did a lower court that allowed the detention of seven other suspects who appeared in a Milimani court on Friday. the court directed that they be detained for seven days pending investigations. On Friday police found broken empty cash boxes and 13 bags stolen on Thursday and dumped in Thogoto Forest, Kiambu county. They belonged to Stanbic, KCB and Barclays banks. Suspects posing as G4S security officers stole Sh72 million in transit from the G4S headquarters along Witu Road and an ATM in Nairobi West belonging to Standard Chartered Bank. (Edited by V. Graham)