Magician Babs Cardini wows audiences by performing tricks on the streets of Nigeria's commercial capital Lagos. The 19-year-old has been a fan of magic since the age of five but only started practising at 16. "When I was young, I loved watching magic shows on TV, so I have had a passion since then. I felt I must become a magician and eventually I became one. I’m gifted; it takes time to learn these things but I did it under two days. It also surprised me as it took some people two years to master," he tells BBC Pidgin. In his first magic experience, he asked his friend to pick a random card. He then looked into his eyes and told him the card he had picked without seeing it. He tells the British Broadcaster the most popular trick he is asked to perform is to turn objects into money. Cardini is a Muslim and has received backlash from fellow worshippers but has embarked on his magic passion, praying to Allah to be the best magician in the world. "I’m a Muslim but someone once told me that in Islam, anybody found doing what I do is definitely doing what Satan is doing and should be killed. I also pray. I actually prayed to be a magician but I still made moves to achieve it. I didn’t rely on prayers alone," he said. One of the few places he said he gets inspiration from are magic shows on TV. He said when he sees a performance that he likes, he adds it to his tricks-set. He said one of his challenges performing for Nigerians is that they always want everything turned into money. “And Nigerian mentality, when they see you as a magician, they get wowed and still ask me, can you turn this into money? Most of the request is always about money,” he said. The teenage magician said that anywhere he gets to, people are always wowed with his tricks and tried to be his friend. He even added that people contact him just for the sake of knowing him more. "I do it because of my passion and love for it. I never ask people for money. Do you see the way I laugh in my videos? I actually laugh at people’s reactions. Recently, it has been crazy. It was amazing to grow from having 3,000 followers on Instagram to 35,000. Just within a day, my followers increased from 18,000 to over 30,000,"he said.