National Super League enters Match Day Two with newbies Administration Police Service Bomet making their debut against Ushuru at Kericho Green Stadium. APS Bomet’s game against fellow law enforcers Kenya Police was postponed because the two teams were involved in the East Africa Police games. APS coach Sebastian Owino expects a positive result on their debut. AP will be up against St Joseph’s Youth in the first of a doubleheader to be played at Camp Toyoyo as from 1 pm. In the second match, Kibera Black Stars will face off with Modern Coast Rangers. Fresh from their 8-0 drubbing of Northern Wanderers, Nairobi Stima will welcome Kenya Police at Karuturi Sports ground in Naivasha. Northern Wanderers who were previously known as Eldoret Youth will be hoping to bounce back when they face Fortune Sacco at Thika Stadium. Tomorrow, Vihiga United host FC Talanta at Mumias Sports Complex hoping to maintain their winning start. Last weekend, Vihiga saw off Migori Youth 3-1 with  Talanta recording an identical score against Vihiga Bullets. Bullets will host moneybags Nairobi City Stars at Mumias Sports Complex. Last week, City Stars who were recently acquired by the Jonathan Jackson Foundation,  started their journey to gain promotion to the top-flight league with a 2-0 win against cash strapped Shabana.  City Stars hired Uefa Pro License holder Sanjin Alagic to guide them back to the top-flight league. Shabana will host Murang’a Seal at Gusii Stadium. Shabana fans were forced to raise money for players and technical bench led by coach Gilbert Selebwa in order to honour the match. The team had threatened not to honour the fixture against the debutants and did not train the whole week. They were expected to resume training yesterday at Cardinal Otunga High School, Mosocho. The fans raised about Sh70, 000 which was sent to the players and technical bench. The club has been struggling financially and officials led by the chairman Jared Nivaton have appealed to well-wishers to help them. “We expected to sign a contract with a betting firm but the license was withdrawn. We are back to square one,” said Nivaton. In a bid to raise funds for the team, the fans have agreed to pay more in gate charges with the VVIP ticket going for Sh500 while the VIP ticket retailing at Sh200. Migori Youth hosts Bidco United at Awendo Green Stadium while Mt Kenya and Coast Stima will square it out at Ruaraka Sports ground. Mt Kenya started their campaign in the second-tier league on a losing note last week, succumbing 3-0 to  Bidco United.