Nandi Senator Samson Cherargei has said he is ready to sacrifice himself "on behalf of Kenyans whose human rights are being violated". Cherargei, who doubles as the chairman of the parliamentary Justice and Legal Affairs Committee, on Thursday said that human rights might be violated if the government continues with Phase II of evictions in Mau. "I am ready to sacrifice myself on behalf of many Kenyans whose rights are being trampled upon so that they can get justice at the end of the day," Cherargei said. He was addressing the press in the Parliament buildings on Thursday. Cheragei has called upon the government to form a task force to look into the rights of people who have been evicted from forests. He also said settlers should be given alternative land. The senator also said what is happening in Mau is a violation of human rights which is contrary to the Constitution which gives rights to own property and to have education. He questioned the move by Environment CS Keriako Tobiko to involve himself in the Mau Trust land issue which he said is under the county government. He said the committee has invited Tobiko to appear in Parliament by next week to share with them the plans that have been put in place to compensate and relocate the affected individuals. " We hope next week the Cabinet Secretary in charge of the Environment and Natural Resouces and Kenya Wildlife Service board will be able to appear so that they can answer questions and share the plans on compensation, land for resettlement and the issue of human rights that we have," Cherargei added. Cherargei has also challenged anybody who has evidence proving that Mau Trust Land was gazetted to make it public. His comments come amid tension in Mau water catchment area where settlers have been asked to move out. The eviction process was called off in order to allow more than 10,000 schoolgoing students to continue with their third term classes peacefully. Cheraregi also asked the President and his Deputy to clearly state their stand on the ongoing eviction.