An attempt by Kisumu county embattled speaker Onyango Oloo to access his offices on Wednesday morning was thwarted after both gates to his office and chambers were locked. Oloo had earlier made his way to the assembly but anti-riot police officers lobbed teargas at them accompanied by his supporters, MCAs and bodyguards. Later, Oloo was brought back to the assembly but found both gates to the assembly compound and his office locked, forcing him to camp outside the premises as MCAs demanded that he should leave from the venue. The MCAs vowed that they will not allow him to access the House and his office. They said the ousted speaker should leave them alone so that they continue with the assembly business. The incident comes a day after one of the MCAs Joachim Oketch, gave a notice of motion with intention to impeach Oloo. However, Oloo said all the businesses that have been ongoing at the assembly are illegal. Oloo maintained that he will not move away from the area until he is allowed to acess his office and the chambers. One of the MCA Market Milimani Ward Seth Kanga noted that they had instructions from the party to block Oloo from entering the assembly. Kanga who is also the ODM chair Kisumu Central noted that Oloo has to go to the party headquarters and sort out his issues first before he can come back. He said ODM has got an internal dispute resolution mechanism to handle the matter. “We listen to the party and what it says. When the party agrees that he comes back we will allow him to do so but as per now, we can't let him,” Kanga said. “We elected you courtesy of ODM..go and do your things...go and let us stay in peace, sort yourself with the party and clear your court case then you can come back,” Kolwa MCA Steve Owiti said adding that they are tired of him from the two years of dictatorship. Owiti said that there was no vacuum of leadership in the assembly and it was not only Oloo who could lead the House. Joachim Oketch noted that the integrity of the Kisumu county assembly must be upheld and wondered why he did not want to step aside.