Bomet residents will have to wait longer before Governor Hillary Barchok appoints a deputy governor after reports of differences between him and Jubilee Party. The governor has been non-committal to name a deputy close to two months since the death of Governor Joyce Laboso. There has been intense lobbying for the position.  Barchok is an a dilemma on whether to appoint a deputy from the former governor's family or make his own preferred choice. During Laboso's funeral at her matrimonial home in Koru, Kisumu, on August 2, several leaders prevailed upon Barchok to appoint a woman preferably from Sotik in hounor of teh departed leader. This is where Laboso hails home. ODM leader Raila Odinga and governors Anne Waiguru (Kirinyaga) and her Kitui counterpart Charity Ngilu said a woman should be selected. Sources said the governor has delayed in a naming a deputy owing to competing interests from various quarters. It is now a delicate balancing act for the governor who is still facing challenges in forming a cabinet. At the moment, the governor is working with only four county executive members after five others were rejected by the county assembly. The top contender for the seat is former Chepalungu MP Paul Savimbi Bii, who is said to be fronted by some Jubilee operatives. According to insiders, he is best placed to manage the political tide in the region in the wake of strong rebellion by former Governor Isaac Rutto. Members of the county assembly are, however, said to be opposed to the plan. They want Laboso to be respected. Some argue that Barchok lacks the capacity to deal with Rutto politically, hence the need to install Savimbi.. "Barchok needs someone who can help him as he performs his office duties...the current political situation in the county is tough considering that there is the Chama cha Mashinani being popularised by Rutto," said a source who sought anonymity. Laboso's niece Jane Sigilai, who has been the chief of staff, had been seen as the likely person to be picked from the family. However, that remains unclear for now. Some sources in the governor's office suggest Sigilai might be given a CEC post just in case the Jubilee mandarins succeed in "planting" their person. Reached for a comment, Barchok said he will soon name a deputy.  He said he was at the moment concentrating on setting up his cabinet and the public service board. Laboso's husband Edwin Abonyo, who during the funeral of Laboso said he had some names from the family to propose for the position, could not be reached for comment.