The wind of political confusion that has rocked the country seems to have gotten the attention of the diplomatic world. Foreign diplomats in the country are reportedly concerned that while the handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga was meant to cool political temperatures, it has done the opposite. The diplomats who met on Thursday evening to review the state of politics are said to have concluded that President Uhuru should take the lead role in providing direction to the country which to them is causing anxiety ahead of the release of the Building Bridges Initiative task force report the end of this month. A CS embroiled in a controversy is on the verge of cracking under pressure from political actors and international donors relentlessly on his neck to implement the preposterous orders. The CS, who has failed to make a significant mark in his docket since he was moved from a previous moribund institution, is splitting hairs on how to navigate the new contour in his path as he struggles to balance the intricate details. Breaking over frustration posed by the new challenge, the CS confided in his close friends that the money from the donors has forced him to take unfeasible orders from some quarters and is afraid the blow back from the controversial exercise might leave a permanent blot in his otherwise checkered career. A vocal MP who is serving his second term is a troubled man.Reason? Intelligence has it that together with a serving diplomat who is a former MP, they are linked to protecting several drug barons at the coast. Those in the know say together with a former senior administrator at the coast- they will soon be busted and arrested for protecting the drug barons. However, the MP is reportedly trying to do all he can to ensure the law doesn’t catch up with him. But intelligence reports show that there is overwhelming evidence and that the three may soon be arrested and charged in court. Just what is happening at a parastatal in the Ministry of Transport? Those in the know say the current management isn’t in charge of the parastatal. Its rumored that a Senior manager in the organisation has allowed his two girlfriends to run the show. A small bird in the parastal has told corridors that the ladies are the ones who have the final say on who will get the parastal resources that are up for public use. A situation that is said to be breeding disharmony among the staff who are fade up with the manager. The man may soon find himself being summoned by the board.