Twelve boys forced their Form 3 colleague to remove his shirt, tied his hands with bicycle rubber straps, beat him ruthlessly and as if that was not enough,  added raw pepper on the bleeding areas. That is what happened to a student at St Mary’s Junior Seminary Secondary School in Kwale town, Matuga subcounty, on September 8. They accused him of stealing a phone The ruthless boys used tree branches and belt lashes for almost six hours, leaving the poor boy partially deaf with severe multiple injuries. That Sunday, he said, his colleagues took him behind the school toilet after morning preps where they questioned him before beating him up. “One of them came and called me from the dorm where I was resting because evening classes were over. He then asked me to follow him only to realise there were other boys waiting for me. They started asking me to give back their phone and then beat me one after the other,” said the boy. “In the process of beating me, one of the boys went and plucked pepper nearby. He smashed them using his hands and applied it on the bruised parts of my body,” he said. Despite his cries, no one came to his rescue. The boy said there was no way he could have rushed to the teachers because one of the school rules is to never disturb them while they are in their houses. School principal Robert Omondi sent away journalists who had gone to his office to follow up on the matter. Ward commander Ludwin Sassati, however, said the principal told him that he had sorted the matter out with the school disciplinary committee and both parents had agreed to "solve their problems at home". Sassati, however, confirmed they have arrested three boys who are helping with the investigations. The 12 boys were in Form 2, 3 and 4. The boy's mother Laura, not her real name, said she was shocked when she saw her son bleeding. “It was in the afternoon, the same day when I had just come from church, when someone knocked at the door. Upon opening, I almost fainted seeing my son bleeding all over mostly his ears. The shirt didn't have buttons, and his legs looked like he was dipped in sewage,” said Laura. She rushed him to hospital and reported the incident to Kwale police station under  OB number 36/08/092019. Laura said she called the principal and said that he was going to the deal with the issue and days late, he suspended the culprits. 