Schools in Lamu’s terror-prone Basuba Ward remained shut during the Kenya Early Years Assessment this week. Schools in terror-prone areas like Basuba, Milimani, Mangai and Mararani remained shut for the fifth year in a row owing to insecurity. The schools fall within areas where the Linda Boni security operation, launched in 2015 to flush out Al Shabaab militants believed to be holed up inside the Boni forest, is still underway. All the teachers who were serving in the region fled in 2015 following allegations that they were directly threatened with dire consequences by Al Shabaab terrorists. Only Kiangwe Primary School re-opened this year but with just a handful of learners turning up. Parents have expressed disappointment over the fact that their children haven’t set foot in class for over five years and that little was being done about the situation. “We hear in the news that grade three learners are sitting that test but unfortunately for our children, they have missed out once again. No schools are open here neither do we have teachers. We don’t know what the future holds for our children. Five years without learning is too much,” said Ali Buli from Basuba. Lamu County Director of Education Joshua Kanga confirmed that learners from terror-prone areas could have missed the test since their schools were closed four years ago. He said his office had written to the Ministry of Education to push for the re-opening of Boni schools by January next year. Basuba Ward MCA Barissa Deko wondered why the government was able to make plans for various exercises like Huduma Number registration and census in the region but could not do more to ensure learning resumes for the Boni children. “The fact that they brought people to register us for Huduma number and census means they are deliberately refusing to help the education situation here. Why cant they deploy teachers to these schools. Boni children have rights too just like other learners around Kenya. It's unfair what’s happening to them,” said Deko. Parents from the community are appealing to the Teachers Service Commission to deploy teachers so that their children can learn too. “The number of security officers in our areas supersedes our own populations as locals. That should mean that security is okay. Why then can't the government deploy teachers,” said Hadija Gurba of Mararani. Efforts by the county government to transfer some of the learners from terror-prone areas to a safer learning centre at the Mokowe Arid Zone primary school in Lamu west haven’t been successful as only 258 were absorbed and the majority left out due to limited capacity at the facility.