The national women’s volleyball team's push for a win if not a set continues this afternoon as they face Brazil in the ongoing World Cup at the Hamamatsu Arena in Japan. Kenya remain win-less and are placed bottom in the 12-team tournament which saw them lose in the identical sets of 3-0 against the United States of America on Saturday, the Netherlands on Sunday and World Champions Serbia on Monday. They line up against Brazil who are ranked fourth in the world and have so far won two matches against Serbia (3-2) and Argentina (3-0). They have, however, lost against Netherlands 3-0. On the flip side, however, Kenya under the stewardship of Paul Bitok, are placed in 20th position in the ranking and it will be the Brazilian match to lose today at least if the FIVB and event ranking is anything to go by. Brazil are placed fourth in the event that is being played on the round-robin. Ahead of today match, Bitok said it’s ironical that the side that won two matches at the 2015 edition against Algeria and Peru have failed to maintain the consistency. He noted that the team has had to gamble with either good start and poor finish poorly or vice versa. He said: “We are playing well but we are not consistent. We can start well and end poorly or start poorly and end well and that is not good especially when you are playing at this level with the best teams across the world. It’s something we have discussed with the team and we hope to get better as the event progresses,” noted Bitok. Asked if he is under pressure after their African counterparts  Cameroon snatched two sets from the Dominican Republic in Yokohoma, the tactician admitted: “We are on the right track. We just need to work with the new system we have in place and we will be better.” Kenya will play their last match against Argentina tomorrow before they make another trip to Sapporo City where event champions China, Japan and the Dominican Republic lie in wait. Cameroon, who are placed 10th, take on Japan today before they wrap up the Yokohama City tour against Korea tomorrow. Cameroon will then move to Toyama City where they will line up against the Netherlands, Serbia, Argentina and Brazil.