State officers face tougher austerity measures after the National Treasury imposed more budget cuts on foreign travel and office operations. Treasury is going after newspapers to staff, reduction of delegations accompanying ministers and PSs on foreign trips and advertising by the national and county governments. Stung by a scathing report by the Controller of Budget which flagged a spending spree in government in contravention of the directive issued by President Uhuru Kenyatta, Treasury boss Ukur Yatani warned the “cuts would be brutal and sustained.” The measures announced in a September 25 circular take immediate effect. The cuts will affect the Judiciary, Parliament, independent offices and commissions to free more money for development, currently allocated less than Sh700 billion of the Sh3 trillion budget. Yatani has limited to four the number of people accompanying a Cabinet Secretary on a foreign trip – the number includes the CS. A PS's delegation will be limited to three, including the team leader, and the trips will only be approved if there is proof they are beneficial to Kenyans. All benchmarking tours have been suspended with immediate effect until further notice, trips that will cut across all government sectors including Parliament. Yatani has advised ministries, state departments and agencies (MDAs) to utilize technology and transact business through teleconference. They should use foreign missions and embassies to transact government business. Accounting officers have been further limited to economy class for domestic air travel. Most state officers fly business class. CoB data shows the national government’s travel budget went higher by 67 per cent to Sh15.5 billion as at year to June last year, up from Sh9.3 billion in 2014. All trainings, except for highly specialized courses, will be conducted within the country and in particular the Kenya School of Government and other government training institutions. Treasury has also instigated cuts on provision of newspapers to staff with Yatani suggesting that those given to all cadres of staff should be rationalized to restrict spending to a quarter of the current budget. PSs are further advised to cut cost on airtime by 30 per cent and use internet calls and other cheaper options to save cash. State departments have also been barred from running advertisement supplements to publicise strategic plans, service charters and events, with Yatani directing that such documents be posted online. More trouble is spelt out for government drivers who now stand the risk of being surcharged should they be found operating a government vehicle outside the official working hours. The Government Vehicle Check Unit has been directed to impound vehicles used outside official working hours without the necessary authority. Yatani says the decision was reached following a situation where government vehicles have been spotted on the roads out of official working hours as well as weekends carrying officers who are not on official duty. “No officer should use a government vehicle outside the official working hours unless authorized by an accounting officer in writing,” the CS has directed. In addition, accounting officers have been directed to restrict the use of civilian number plates on GoK vehicles to check on abuse. “It is reiterated that any officer receiving commuter allowances and continues to use government transport outside official working hours is liable for a surcharge,” Yatani said, adding that such officers will be required to forfeit an equivalent of a months’ commuter allowance. Expenditure on office furniture has also been ordered reduced by 75 per cent for the next three years, purchases of the same being restricted to those manufactured locally. The Housing department will also develop standards for office space for public officers and rent payable in zoned locations. Further to this, government agencies have been directed to utilize available space in government buildings before venturing into the market for such office facilities. Yatani said the cuts follow the need to secure funding for the Big Four agenda, emerging spending pressures, revenue underperformance and the swelling public debt. “This will ensure the government operates within its financial means and maintains its macroeconomic stability,” the CS said. CoB data following a review of state spending in the financial year 2018-19 showed that government agencies still gobble billions in recurrent expenses. For instance, during last financial year the Teachers Service Commission took a chunk of the government’s Sh2.5 trillion spending at Sh240 billion. It was followed closely by the Interior ministry at Sh122 billion, of which Sh81 billion was for salaries. A paltry Sh15 billion was spent on development by the ministry which takes charge of the country’s internal security. The Defence ministry used up Sh101 billion on personnel emoluments, domestic and foreign travel; printing and advertising; vehicle maintenance, training, and hospitality while Sh7 billion was spent on development. The education sector took up a further Sh83.8 billion spent by the department for university education and Sh83.4 billion in recurrent expenses on early learning and basic education. Health, which is a Big Four pillar, took up Sh41 billion in recurrent expenses, large portions being for training and salaries. The sector spent Sh22.9 billion on development. The National Treasury’s recurrent expense of Sh40 billion pairs conversely to its Sh8 billion spend on projects undertaken by the ministry. National Intelligence Services officers drew Sh33.4 billion in recurrent expenses; no breakdown was given on what it spent on each the recurrent vote heads. The State Department for Correctional Services spent Sh21 billion during the year under review to run prisons and pay workers salaries. Sh405 million was spent on projects. Foreign Affairs, for its part, used up Sh15 billion during the year with only Sh2 billion expended on growth projects. The Judiciary spent Sh12.3 billion on recurrent matters with another Sh1.6 billion on development – construction of courts and registries. The National Assembly spent Sh8.9 billion during the year under review with another Sh9.6 billion for the Parliamentary Service Commission. PSC spent Sh1.1 billion on projects.