AFC Leopards coach Andre Mbungo has termed the arrival of the 2016 Kenya Premier League top scorer John Makwatta at the den as the perfect solution to the misfiring department. Ingwe beat Gor Mahia to the marksman’s signature who was a free agent after parting ways with Al Nasr Sporting club of Kuwait in the final hours of the player transfer window which was shut on Monday midnight. The former Ulinzi Stars’ player was a hot product in the market but it was Leopards, who had the last laugh courtesy of what their chairman Dan Shikanda described as a good and instant package as opposed to unfulfilled promises offered by their football rivals. Mbungo, who began the new season sourly after losing 1-0 to Kakamega Homeboyz last weekend, believes Makwatta will bring in the much-sought scoring experience and he is confident the club will now win matches convincingly. “It was important to bring a proven goal scorer who will shoulder the responsibilities and I am elated to have him join the rest. Just because we lost the opener doesn’t mean we are worse off. It’s too early to judge.” Mbungo’s sentiments were echoed by Shikanda who said they couldn’t afford to lose Makwatta to Gor after losing in their bid to reunite with Clifford Miheso who signed for the latter. “We were looking for a striker who can convert half chances to goals and Makwatta is that player. There was no way we could have allowed him to join Gor after watching them snatch Miheso from our jaws. We offered him a hard to reject the offer and we are committed to ensuring the welfare of the players and the technical bench is well addressed.” The former Kenyan international further reiterated his commitment to navigating the sponsor-less stint and meeting his promise of bringing in multiple sponsors made after winning the elections. He also said he would accord the technical bench the necessary support despite losing the opener. “Under my watch, we will not have cases of unpaid allowances and salaries. I am targeting to register 100, 000 members before the end of the year and through that we will be able to bankroll the club. I am still on course in getting more sponsors for the club and I am willing to accord the bench the support they need.”