Teacher training colleges could be staring at job cuts and fee hikes as the institutions skip the annual admission for certificate programmes. The freeze on admission for P1 courses took effect this month, leaving the institutions with empty lecture rooms. The directive was issued by the government last year. The P1 course was a two-year programme, but a diploma course will take three years. The plan is to upgrade it to a diploma course tailored to meet the demands of the new curriculum. But with about 15,000 new admissions each year, a dark cloud hangs over the institutions. Some of their employees face the sack following operation slowdowns. The shift comes at a time the institutions are facing decreased enrolment in the past three years. Principals who spoke to the Star on condition of anonymity on Wednesday said they are exploring measures to ensure operations are not disrupted by the decline in the intake. “The freeze obviously has left a void and imbalance, especially in the number of support staff required for certain roles or tasks... All options are on the table and each principal will choose how best to address the issue,”  a principal said. Uncertainty also surrounds the fees the colleges will charge for diploma courses. Sources from some of the institutions, however, indicate a likelihood of fee increase once the course is rolled out. Kenya has 27 public teacher training colleges. Only three (Kagumo, Lugari and Kibabii) have been offering diploma training and now the remaining institutions will be required to follow suit. Under the diploma course, students will be trained in two subjects of their choice. This is a departure from the current establishment where teacher trainees are taught all subjects. As the government enforces the changes, however, concerns have also been raised on how long it will take to hire diploma holders in primary schools. Already, statistics from the Teachers Service Commission reveal an oversupply of teachers. The number of those jobless is set to surpass the number of those employed at the end of this year, according to TSC boss Nancy Macharia. The TSC indicates that 216,517 teachers are in primary schools and 100,493 in secondary schools, totalling 317,010. The number of unemployed trained teachers stands at 309,000. The Economic Survey 2019 reveals an upward trend in enrolment of students to teacher training institutions for both P1 and diploma courses. Over five years, the numbers seeking diplomas rose from 39,853 in 2014 to 42,351 in 2018. Those in P1 surged from 21,214 in 2014 to 22,231 in 2018. (Edited by F'Orieny)