Nairobi County Assembly has rubbished claims that the county will plunge into a crisis in the event that Governor Mike Sonko is charged over graft. The members led by Majority Leader Abdi Hassan Guyo said on Tuesday that there is neither panic nor any looming crisis at City Hall. "Governor Sonko is in office and everything is in order. He has not been charged nor should people pre-empt that he will charged as it has been reported in the media,” he said. Guyo insisted that pressure should not put on EACC instead, the agency should be left to conclude the investigations and send the file to DPP. The Majority Leader also refuted the claims that embattled Speaker Beatrice Elachi will take over the Office of the Governor in the scenario where Sonko will be forced to step aside. "Elachi was impeached by the assembly of Nairobi and she is no longer our speaker and therefore she cannot take over. I don’t know what narrative is being interpreted outside and which Constitution is being used,”Guyo said. "The Kenya constitution is very clear under Article 182 on when the Office of the Governor is vacant and so far none of the reasons has been met," he added. According to the Constitution of Kenya Chapter 11, the Office of the County Governor becomes vacant if the governor dies or resigns in writing to the Speaker of the County Assembly. It also states that if a Governor is convicted of an offence punishable by imprisonment for at least twelve months or is removed from office under the Constitution the office stands to be vacant. The Majority leader further said that the people who are behind the narrative should understand that they have an acting speaker who was elected. "We have our speaker Chege Mwaura who is the leader of the assembly courtesy of the county government Act Section 10 subsection IV and Elachi is nowhere in terms of assembly leadership and in terms of taking office,” he added. Guyo further explained that the Governor is not leaving his office anytime soon until the 2022 elections when Nairobi residents will judge him by his achievements. "As far as we are concerned all that is being reported are allegations and the media should let EACC do its work,” he said. The Matopeni ward rep urged the media to report and concentrate on serious on critical matters instead of reporting on how the Governor will be charged even before the investigations are done.