Former Premier League champions Sikh Union line up against Butali today at the City Park Stadium as they seek to shake off the western-based side. Sikh are currently eighth on the log with eight points and will be seeking to return to winning ways following a 2-2 all draw with Parklands in their last match. They lost 3-1 to Butali in the first leg. Team captain Haggai Pepela maintained they will leave nothing to chance against the table-toppers, who he said are under pressure to maintain the pace. He said: "It is always a tough match but the skill and experience level on show will make it a cracking encounter. We want it more and that’s why we will put in our best. We are also aware of the tension and pressure at stake.” He admitted that they have watched them play, mastered their tactics and have their own plan to deliver on their mandate. “We have reorganized our defence and put a lot in training. They start the fouls quickly and pass the ball very fast. Their short corner execution is good but we have devised a method and hopefully, we can stop them.” He added: “Experienced first choice national team goalkeeper Simon Odhiambo should keep us in the game especially on drag flicks as Davis Wanangwe tries to get goals.” Butali’s Max Fuchaka and Brian Musasia are suspended while Robert Amadi faces a late fitness test. Coach Denis Owoka is unmoved by the ban but promised to take the derby seriously. He said: “This is a derby that has been going on for ages and our biggest game in the calendar. No worries because we have the depth of quality and talented players to choose from and our marvellous run should continue." Elsewhere, Green sharks will hope to complete a season double against Sailors. They won 1-0 in the first leg but are wounded following a 1-0 loss to USIU-A Mashujaa last  weekend. Sharks have 20 points— six more than their opponents who have 14. Meanwhile, a stun test awaits women side Lakers when they host Strathmore University Scorpions at Kisumu Simba stadium today. Fifth-placed Lakers are unbeaten with 12 points and come into the match on the back of a frustrating 2-2 draw with Kenyatta University Titans. A win for Lakers will move them to fourth with 15 points and an equivalent result for scorpions will see them close the gap to within five points with leaders Telkom who are not in action.