Good morning, The differences in Jubilee over the looming Mau evictions have escalated into a proxy war between President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto. Their allies have been issuing hard-hitting statements on whose authority the evictions should be executed. Whereas Uhuru's allies maintain that the President should not be sucked into the eviction debate, the Ruto camp holds that the expulsion is illegal. The deep wedge was evident yesterday, going by the remarks by Cherangany MP Joshua Kuttuny – a Uhuru ally – and Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen – a Ruto ally. Here are the other stories making headlines in the Star this morning. Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi has said the party will do everything to win the Kibra parliamentary seat in the by-election scheduled for November 7. Speaking to the Star in Nairobi on Wednesday, Mudavadi said ANC candidate Eliud Owalo "has what it takes to beat rivals from both ODM and Jubilee." Owalo is a former strategist for Raila Odinga decamped from ODM to ANC to seek the seat he lost in the 2017 election to Ken Okoth of ODM. Dead men tell no tales, so goes the popular adage. However, this doesn’t apply to one Francis Kimani, who, nine years after he was ‘killed’ on paper, has filed a case seeking to demonstrate to court that he is alive. Kimani says one Ruth Wambui moved to court claiming to be his wife and, armed with a death certificate, obtained letters of administration for land that belonged to him. Kenyans seeking justice in courts will no longer wait for years for teh conclusion of their cases if the ongoing digitisation in the Judiciary is completed. Chief Justice David Maraga has said that the digitisation of all operations in the Judiciary to help expedite cases and keep the integrity of records is at an advanced stage.  Nearly half a million companies and institutions are still holding nearly Sh241 billion that need to be reunited with the rightful owners, unclaimed assets agency has revealed.. In a media statement yesterday, the Unclaimed Assets Authority chief executive John Mwangi said holders have only reported and submitted Sh13.1 billion in cash, 1451 safe deposit boxes and 564 million unit of share to the Authority to date.  Global rating firm Moody’s could further lower Kenyancreditworthiness currently at B2 stable. On Monday, the firm announced completion of a periodic review on Kenya, and raised concern over the country's very low fiscal strength, ballooning debt and runaway corruption due to weak rule of law.