The Afrolect 2 Nairobi-based Jazz Trio Nairobi Horns Project exist in a perfect music realm, where they can play all the beautiful, genuine and thought-provoking music they can. Together with fellow acts Sol Generation’s Bensoul, the King of Benga Dan Aceda, reggae enthusiasts Gravitti Band and Ghanian pianist Victor Dey Jr, the 2nd edition of the Afrolect Festival will be going down on September 14. Want to let your diversity flag fly without fear? Well, this is a safe space to witness various Kenyan sounds from music creators of varied genres. If you want to join them, the show will be held at 5 Kanjata RD off James Gichuru Road at 3pm. Poetry Slam Africa Slam Africa has successfully built a poetic kingdom of their own, where young people could articulate themselves and express their perspectives about issues close to them. Over the course of 11 years, the platform has aimed to unify creatives of the continent through performance arts. The 3rd preliminary of Poetry Slam Africa takes place at the Goethe Institut Auditorium on September 14, 2 pm. It features performances from Anthem Republiq, Hastycode Andreh,camilla_okongo, Doro Thee and Jacqueline Munyaka, among others. Sol-A-Fair Sol Generation is what you’d reference when citing a well-built music label. Since debuting its talented signees earlier this year, the label has racked up quite an interesting and impressive catalogue that continues to exhibit the brilliance of label’s owners Sauti Sol. Now they’ve collaborated with K1 Flea Market to bring you the Sol-A-Fair showcase, which is an attempt at creating a brilliant musical experience for all music lovers. Nviiri the Storyteller will headline the first installation of the showcase at K1 Klubhouse on September 15. This collaborative effort is expected to continue every Sunday until October. It will also offer a market, games, art installations and plenty more. Lucid Dreams Lucid Dreams brings together six Kenyan artists who engage in drawing, painting, sculpture and video. They use these to showcase how the acts and decisions involved in the making of art are made visible in the work and how they show the thinking that underpins the work. It opened on September 11 at the Circle Art Gallery in Nairobi. Being the first group exhibition this year, it features the works of Maliza Kiasuwa, Sidney Mang’ong’o, Onyis Martin, Agnes Waruguru Njoroge, Prina Shah and Lemek Tompoika. The exhibition, curated by Don Handa, runs until October 11.