Premier League clubs are set to scrap the early closure of the transfer window. Since 2018, clubs in England have been subject to a pre-season deadline day - but clubs in Europe continue to trade for another three weeks. Sources have said that the move has been ‘a disaster’ and there is growing confidence that those who wish to return to the old system will secure the 11 votes needed to trigger its reinstatement. Much of the discontent comes from clubs within the big six, who feel that the switch - brought in to protect each side from having its players poached during the season - has done little other than leave all English clubs vulnerable to raids from Europe. There is also a belief that the early closure, which sees the window shut on the final Thursday before the new campaign kicks off, has unnecessarily given those on the Continent the edge when it comes to negotiating fees. Manchester United are understood to be keen on going back to the previous system, along with a growing number of other clubs. Last month, Leicester manager Brendan Rodgers joined his Tottenham and Liverpool counterparts Mauricio Pochettino and Jurgen Klopp in admitting the early closure leaves Premier League sides at a disadvantage. The issue is on the agenda for the next shareholders’ meeting on September 12. A vote may well take place at the summit, although it could be deferred to November. The future of Pochettino’s playmaker Christian Eriksen remained unclear up until Monday night’s deadline, a situation that has not helped Spurs’ start to the campaign while a similar scenario unfolded at United, with Paul Pogba also continuously linked with a switch to Real Madrid. At the 2017 vote, 14 clubs voted in favour of the proposal and five against, with one abstention. The five consisted of both Manchester clubs, Crystal Palace, Watford and Swansea City but the feeling is that the 11 needed to trigger a return is likely. Leagues in Italy, Spain, Germany and France closed their windows on Monday night.