A test-assessment of the success of the first year of implementation of the new Competency-Based Curriculum in Grade 3 has begun in some schools. The Kenya National Examination Council last month announced plans to review the success and problems of the new curriculum in Grade 3. The Kenya Early Years Assessment (Keya) will be administered to all learners in this grade and will test three English, Mathematics and Integrated Learning. Although official communication indicated the exercise was to kick off on September 16 and 20, some schools started early due to the complex nature of the practical tasks in the new system. "We gave a go-ahead on the assessment to some schools that sought to begin the process early. This will give them ample time to undertake activities that require more time in the assessment," Knec chief executive officer Mercy Karogo told the Star on Monday. The survey will be conducted through an assessment where learners will undertake various tests and be awarded marks. In the case of English and Mathematics, Knec seeks to determine the ability of children to read, write and count numbers. However, in testing the learners' holistic skills (interaction, problem-solving, observation and critical thinking) the national examiner will administer an integrated test as part of class learning that will be assessed over two months. This will combine subjects such as environmental activities, hygiene, nutrition and creative activities such as art and craft. Learners will be required to demonstrate by either drawing, reciting or undertaking projects on the application of what they learned under each topic. Among notable differences in testing the learners, the schools have been asked to prepare improvised tools they need in taking practical activities. Most of the practical activities currently ongoing in the assessment involve integrated learning. Here a learner’s attitude towards certain activities will be assessed. This is expected to provide teachers with a more complete picture of what the learners know and what they can do with what they know. Teachers conducting the assessment will then be required to send the school results to Knec for evaluation. Karogo told the Star the tests will focus on engaging the learners more by thinking critically on issues rather than just recalling information. "Testing of the new curriculum will focus more on assessment tasks that relate to everyday, real-life experiences so that learning is not on abstract things. Exercises given should be ones the learner identifies with," Karogo said.