Suspected drug baron Ali Punjani claims the much-publicised raid on his house was meant to embarrass him and damage his reputation. Punjani, who is reportedly still out of the country for treatment, also wants to apply for anticipatory bail to prevent security officers from arresting him when he returns in the country. His lawyers are compiling information that would allow them to sue Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai, the National Police Service, Directorate of Criminal Investigations and Anti-Narcotics unit Mombasa and other officers in the course of this week. The raid was conducted at his Nyali palatial home on August 13. A search certificate with an inventory indicating what was recovered during the seven-hour search was released. In an affidavit, Punjani also wants to be informed about the exact reasons for the raid that only yielded two rolls of bhang from Ram Manoj, one of the occupants. He claims the operation was malicious. He further wants compensation for general damages for invasion of privacy and association to drug trafficking. He says the claims by police had been concocted and conveniently framed to destroy his reputation. “The seizure of valuables and confiscation of personal documents, money, title deeds, logbooks, cheque books among other valuables was a violation of my fundamental rights,” he said. The raid was supervised by county police commander Johnstone Ipara, days after Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i toured the region. Punjani further stated that the arbitrary detention of his wife and close relatives was inhumane and degrading, a violation of their constitutional rights. Others who have been listed as respondents in the petition are Nyali subcounty police commander Simon Thrikiwa, Sergeant Patrick Lumbasi, Noah Sangut, Lilian Mutuku, Solomon Gachia, Anthony Muriithi, Josphat Kisingils and Solomon Gachia. Some of the officers who signed a search certificate on Punjani’s house that day were listed as witnesses. Edited by R.Wamochie