White Cap claimed their maiden Kenya International 14 Goal Polo annual tournament held at the Nairobi Polo Club yesterday. White Cap comprising of South African five goaler Gareth Evans, North Kenya brothers Casmir (5) and handicap three Tarquin Gross and Manyatta Polo Club's Ben Stonewigg (1) won all their ties to emerge champions in the round-robin four-team showpiece. Andy Kilonzo, Kenya Breweries' sales and marketing director, applauded the winners and said his firm is looking forward to supporting the sport at the foot of Mt. Kenya. "The event has been wow! The venue, the game, the ambience and organisation were fantastic. The action was intense, almost looking like rugby on horsebacks. I am impressed and this is an event that we would want to associate with even outside Nairobi (Timau)," said Kilonzo. The Evans-captained side routed 2018 holders Samurai, who featured South African import handicap-six Tom de Bruin, Tanzanian Hansi Bruins (3.5), Nairobi's 2.5 goalers Jules Camm and team patron Raphael Nzomo 11 F-5 in their final match yesterday. White Cap commanded of the highly charged tie from start to end with Casmir and Tarquin notching in a double each in the first chukka as they denied Samurai a single chance to raid their goal area. In the second chukka, Samurai endeavoured to reduce parity as de Bruin hit one goal in and Hansi scored their second for 4F-2. But White Cap were not slowing down Stonewigg grabbed a brace to widen the scoreline to 6F-2. Upon resumption, both sides mounted watertight defence but Casmir forced a goal and once again Samurai were unlucky not to score (7F-2). In the fourth period, Casmir pile more misery on Samurai, sailed in two goals as Tarquin added one with replies for a comfortable 10F-2 advantage. Samurai got back to the game too late, scoring three goals through de Bruin (double) and Camm for a 10F-5 but Tarquin hit in the last to end the game 11F-5. White Cap had beaten White Cap Lite 7F-10 in their first encounter and Toyota 5-10F on Saturday. WC Lite finished second with 21F goals with Samurai and Toyota sharing spoils on position three with 21 goals apiece. Stonewigg was voted the Most Valuable Player as eight-year-old Primavera from the Nzomo stable was awarded the Best Playing Pony.