Good morning, When they dropped their children off at Precious Talent School in Dagoretti South on Monday morning, the last thing parents expected was that eight precious children would never come home. And at least 64  pupils would be injured when the flimsy primary school collapsed. Sixty were discharged in the afternoon from Kenyatta National Hospital. Some students were admitted elsewhere. Several students told the Star they noticed the school was 'bent' and tilting and one boy told his teacher on Friday. He was told not to worry and go back to class. Desperate and frightened, parents paced up and down the information centre at KNH Here are the other stories making headlines in the Star this morning. Counties generate less than 10 per cent of their budgeted revenue even as agitate for more allocation of funds from the national government, a new report shows. The  Consortium of Researchers on Governance (CORG) report points out that county governments raised paltry Sh22.32 billion (9.54 per cent) of the Sh232.8 billion budgeted total revenue for the first nine months of the 2017/2018 financial year. A man has petitioned the High Court seeking a declaration that prisoners be allowed to fully participate in general elections. Wilson Kinyua says prisoners were denied their constitutional right to vote during the 2017 General Election was limited to only the presidential race. They were not allowed to cast their ballots for the governor, senator, woman representative, MP and MCA. Only 31 per cent of Kenyans are aware of the Universal Health Coverage programme being piloted in Kisumu, Isiolo, Nyeri and Makueni counties. A survey released yesterday shows that in the four pilot counties, only 42 per cent of the people are aware of UHC. The 'Nationwide Perception Study on Universal Health Coverage in Kenya' found that the level of awareness of UHC is highest in regions with a UHC pilot county. At least 300,000 trained and registered teachers are jobless, documents from the Teachers Service Commission can reveal. The number of unemployed teachers is almost the same as those with jobs which stands at 317,069, according to the Commission's 2019-2023 strategic plan launched in May. TSC said a good number of Kenyans trained as teachers but failed to register with the commission os they can take up jobs in other fields locally and abroad. Kenya is experiencing a state of relative peace, following the rapprochement between top political rivals in the last election. There are no more violent street protests, and if there are, the police are swift to 'restore calm'. The stability augurs well for human rights, as enshrined in the constitution 2010, acclaimed as among the world's most progressive. But are Kenyans really safer and more dignified today?