Roots Party of Kenya plans to use a door-to-door campaign strategy to win  the Kibra by-election. Party leader Prof George Wajackoyah said they intend to conduct an opinion poll to establish the most pressing issues facing the constituents before the official campaign period begins. “We are not loud speakers and therefore we will not hold rallies in Kibra. We will go door to door telling the people of Kibra our plans for them based on what we will have established from the opinion poll,” he explained. He said they are determined to win the seat and should not be underestimated by big parties. “We know everything about Kibra, including what it takes to win an election there,” he affirmed. Wajackoya spoke in the Star offices in Nairobi soon after the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission cleared the party’s candidate, Ibrahim Cheruiyot, to run for the seat. Party chair Risper Kemunto and youth leader Elvis Opete accompanied the two. RPK is up against Orange Democratic Movement, Amani National Congress, Jubilee and Ford Kenya parties among other political heavyweights in the November 7 poll. Cheruiyot, who is from the Nubian community, said he understands the needs of the constituents very well having lived in the area since 1970. He promised to fast-track a slum upgrading project in the area, which was identified for redevelopment since Kkibra is one of the largest slums in Africa, with an estimated population of 400,000 people. “Slum upgrading is a good project for Kibra but it has been very slow. We need to push it to be implemented faster than the current rate,” he added. He also promised to address unemployment and issues surrounding land ownership. Cheruiyot will be counting on the support of the Nubian community which makes about 15 per cent of the population of Kibra. He unsuccessfully contested the Makina ward seat in Kibra on a Wiper ticket during the 2017 elections. Wiper will not be fielding a candidate in the forthcoming by-election. RPK settled on Cheruiyot after vetting 14 aspirants who had shown interest in using the party to contest for the seat.