Journalists covering the probe on the controversial Sh1.7 billion AAR Kenya medical cover for Nairobi county staff were on Monday ejected from the sittings. Acting county secretary Leboo Morintat requested the media to be excluded. Morintat was appearing before the county assembly public accounts committee to respond to queries raised by the Auditor General in his 2017-18 report. According to the auditor's report, City Hall paid Sh1.73 billion to the firm although the contract was Sh1.07 billion. The auditor queried why the county government paid more than Sh652 million in excess of the medical scheme’s contract. According to the report, no supporting documents were given to explain the excesses. A comparison of the annual contract sum showed unexplained growth in value of the cover even though there was a decrease in the staff by 402 during the year under review. In 2015-16, a Sh346.3 million contract covered 13,348 county employees with the same amount covering 13,097 staff for 2016-17. In 2017-18 which was co-shared by former Governor Evans Kidero and Mike Sonko, the amount increased to Sh1.1 billion covering 12,695 staff. At the moment, Nairobi has 12,499 county staff. Jinxed sittings There had been deliberations to cancel the sitting before the media was kicked out.The sitting started at 1.10pm instead of the scheduled 10.30am. Chairman Wilfred Odalo was seen walking in and out of the committee room on the phone. But Jubilee MCAs snubbed the committee session. A Jubilee MCA who sought anonymity told the Star that they had been instructed not to attend the sitting 'as those who did would be de-whipped from the committee'. The oversight committee has been on the spot for revealing malpractices of the executive and was at one point accused of deliberately exposing Governor Sonko’s administration. Morintat, who is also the public service management chief officer has been branded a 'malicious' witness before the committee. He had failed to attend some sittings prompting the committee to invite him for the last time on Monday, failure to which he would be summoned. He was to appear together with Vesca Kangogo–finance executive during the year under review, finance chief officer Ekaya Almasi, head of procurement Patrick Mwangangi. Others asked to accompany him were head of county treasury Stephen Mutua, head of internal audit Edward Gichana and chairperson of the defunct medical insurance evaluation committee Kefa Omanga. 'Official's habit' When Morintat requested for the media to be excluded from the sitting, Minority whip Peter Imwatok questioned the move saying there was no valid reason. “Throwing the media out will paint the county in a bad light as this is not the first time this officer has done this. The public will not forgive this committee if this becomes a trend,” he said. Karen MCA David Mberia also said that the matter in question is based on public concern and they ought to know why the money was paid in excess. Sarang’ombe MCA Lawrence Otieno and Ngei's Redson Otieno also backed the whip's sentiments. "Why is the member always fearful? Why does he constantly ask that the media be excluded when he appears before us?” Otieno asked. Despite resistance from the members, committee chairman Odalo granted Morintat's request. Monday was not the first sitting where Morintat requested to have the media excluded before he could respond to PAC queries. In July, the media was asked to leave the sitting when the county secretary was appearing before PAC over the medical cover tender. The cover has come under serious scrutiny since the deal was signed by Kidero's administration in 2015. AAR was then fighting to stay on after winning the tender for 2015-16 and 2016-17. The tender was meant to end on June 30, 2017, but Sonko's administration extended it for three months to allow time for procurement. It lasted until last year on December 31. In January, the Kenya County Government Workers Union raised an alarm over lack of county staff medical cover and demanded immediate coverage. This was after it was revealed that as from December 31 last year, county staff stopped receiving coverage from AAR and that the county had contracted Bliss Healthcare. In February, through a notice of motion, Mlango Kubwa MCA Patriciah Mutheu urged Sonko to cancel the AAR insurance for City Hall staff saying it was too expensive yet the firm offered 'poor services'. Edited by R.Wamochie