 The Dock Workers' Union leadership wrangles have been blamed on businesspeople behind the privatisation of the second container terminal. Secretary-general Simon Sang on Thursday claimed the businesspeople were plotting to do away with the union leadership. Sang cited "an illegal AGM" that was scheduled for Thursday afternoon at the Bandari Maritime Academy behind his back, as an example of the plot. The trade unionist had on August 30 called for the AGM to be held yesterday (Thursday), but the union's National Executive Committee put it off on Wednesday. The NEC's decision was precipitated by fears that the meeting would be violently disrupted and the subsequent chaos blamed on the general secretary. “You know these guys are being used by the people who want to privatise the port. They are planning to privatise 100 per cent of the port,” Sang told the Star by phone. “They want to take advantage of the AGM which was supposed to be there today (Thursday) which we officially adjourned but then they are forcing it – an illegal one,” he said. But union chairman Mohamed Sheria said the AGM would go on as planned. He said Sang has no right to call off an AGM. “Sang does not call for AGMs. That is not his work. The constitution does. And the constitution said on August 30 that there would be an AGM today,” Sheria said by phone. The two have for months been at loggerheads with each other over the running of the union. Sang claims Sheria colludes with Kenya Ports Authority management to frustrate 7,000 workers while Sheria accuses the secretary-general of treating the union as a private property to enrich himself. Yesterday, Sang complained that the privatisation proponents are using Sheria to divide the union. “They are now using the same Team Sheria to cook an AGM and a fake 2/5 attendance, as per union constitution requirement. They can create a reason to go to court and buy time as the privatisation of CT2 and MCC is initiated and rushed,” he said. The NEC adjourned yesterday’s AGM in a notice on Wednesday. Sheria said Sang is afraid of the chairman’s and treasurer’s reports. “Why is he afraid?” he asked. Sang compared what is happening at DWU with what the Teachers Service Commission allegedly used against Kenya National Union of Teachers secretary general Wilson Sossion. “It will not work with us because we are better prepared,” he said.   