DNA results have revealed that no babies were swapped at Mama Lucy hospital in July 2019. The infants at the centre of the controversy were baby girls belonging to two mothers, Dorothy Kawira and Evalyne Ndinda, who gave birth at the facility almost during the same time. Ndinda gave birth to a baby girl on July 15, but after two days Evelyn breastfed a baby girl whom she did not recognize as her own. Edgar Munyoki, the husband to Ndinda, had said his wife had insisted she had been given a baby that is not hers. It was believed that the second baby girl that Ndinda was given to breastfeed belonged to Kawira. The two mothers were at loggerheads, compelling the hospital to carry out a DNA test. A report on DNA analysis seen by the Star shows that the babies were not swapped. The results were released on Monday. According to the results, Kawira is indeed the mother to baby Kezia Makena, while Evalyne is the mother to Evalyne Ndinda Musyoka. Since then, the mothers have been kept in the hospital and were only released after the results. The babies were under a strict baby care programme at the facility at no extra cost. Upon the release of the DNA results, Mama Lucy Hospital medical superintendent Dr Musa Mohamed wrote to the Nairobi county government on Monday asking for the way forward after the release of the report. He was directed to release the babies to the respective parents. Mohamed said the DNA investigation was done by a government agency and is thus satisfactory. He said the saga was brought about by a small confusion but after the results, the parents were satisfied.  The fathers of the babies arrived at the facility on Tuesday morning and expressed satisfaction with the process. "I appreciate the efforts because they responded immediately and all we want now is to go home," Dancan Mberia, father to baby Kezia, said. Governor Mike Sonko urged the health department to keep more vigil in hospitals and ensure no such case emerges in future. “.We have evenly improved service at our hospitals and that’s why there’s huge flock but security should be tight to avoid such cases from happening," Sonko said. Nairobi County Health Executive Mohamed Dagane said the county has started beefing up surveillance at its major facilities to avoid incidences of baby swapping and theft. "We doing this in all our facilities and especially Pumwani and Mama Lucy hospitals where we have high number of deliveries," he said. 