Nairobi City Stars maintained their 100 per cent start of the season after edging out a stubborn Vihiga Bullets 2-1 at Bukhungu Stadium in Kakamega. The game was replayed yesterday morning after it was rained off in the 89th with City Stars leading 1-0 on Sunday. In yesterday’s game, David Kavaji gave the hosts the lead in the 44th minute. In form Gambian hitman Ibrahim Sanneh equalised for City Stars in the 64th minute. Sanneh was on the mark again in the 80th minute to condemn the newly-promoted side to a second consecutive defeat. City Stars, who were acquired by the Jonathan Jackson Foundation, hired Uefa Pro License holder Sanjin Alagic to help the club back to the Kenya Premier League. Last weekend, City Stars beat cash-strapped Shabana 2-0 at Hope Centre in Nairobi. Following the win, City Stars moved third on the log. Nairobi Stima, Bidco United, Ushuru occupy the to three places with six points apiece but they are separated by goal difference. Relegated Vihiga United and Talanta battled to a barren draw at Mumias Sports Complex. Both teams have four points each. Kisii-based Shabana got their campaign back on track at Gusii Stadium, edging debutants Murang’a Seal 2-1. Abou Traore and Philbert Ochieng scored for Shabana while Wilson Mwaura pulled one back for Shabana. The financially-troubled side will travel to Mombasa for an encounter against Modern Coast Rangers on Friday. Northern Wanderers are finding the going tough in the league after losing their second consecutive game. Wanderers lost 2-1 against Fortune Sacco at Thika Sub County Stadium. Migori Youth also lost their second consecutive game, going down 2-0 to Bidco at Awendo Green Stadium. Administration Police Service Bomet had a terrible debut, losing 2-0 to Ushuru at their adopted home of Kericho Green Stadium. Administration Police and St Joseph’s Youth. Modern Coast Rangers and Kibera Black Stars also battled to a 1-1 draw. Mt Kenya United recorded their first win of the season after edging Coast Stima 2-1. Musa Ekai and John Ndirangu scored for Mt Kenya United while Joshua Oyoo scored Coast Stima’s consolation.