Dominique Habimana has been appointed new Kenya Harlequins coach. Habimana, who is a highly successful and experienced coach, was part of the Kenya Harlequin’s coaching team that won the Kenya Cup in 2008 and Kenya Cup three-peat in 2010, 2011, 2012. As head coach, the tactician won the 2014 Kenya Cup and Enterprise Cup double with Nakuru RFC. Habimana was the Kenya Simbas' forward coach between 2012 - 2013 and 2015 -2018. During his time, he won the CAR Gold Cup in 2013 and the Elgon Cup four times (2013, 2016, 2017, 2018). Habimana said: “It's good to be back home. I am excited to be working with the current squad. "The players are hungry for more success and they are ready to put in the hard work. "They want to play solid and exciting rugby. With their passion and skill, they will achieve their rugby goals at Kenya Harlequin." Part of the technical bench will see former international Joel Nganga handle the forwards alongside Benjamin Ayimba. Jimmi Mnene is the team manager Habimana replaces Charles Cadovillis who served for one season and resigned last week. Cadovillis was handed a 12-week ban by the Kenya Rugby Union following inciting remarks on referees during the Kabeberi Sevens in Meru. Kenya Harlequin’s chairman, Michael Wanjala, said: “We are delighted to welcome Dominique back home. Papa, as he is fondly known around the club, has been a ferocious championship-winning player for the club on the pitch and an intelligent championship-winning coach off the pitch. We are looking forward to a very successful XVs season with him.” Habimana took charge of the training squads this week. His first assignment will be the Impala Floodlights at the end of the month. Elsewhere, Kenya Sevens internationals Willy Ambaka and Oscar Ouma are set for the inaugural Rugby X to be held in London in October. They join a Barbarian FC side featuring Rio 2016 gold medallists Fijians Veremalau, Kitione Taliga, Hosea Kolinisau(Olympic winning captain), Samisoni   Viriviri and Pio Tuwai. Ouma and Ambaka made the HSBC World Sevens Series dream during the 2017/18 season and were part of the 2016 team that won Singapore 7s as well as competed at the Olympics. Others are South Africa’s Kyle Brown and Luke Treharne of Wales. Barbarians will play England in the first match before taking on Ireland in the second Pool 'A' match . Pool 'B' will see Argentina play USA and USA take on France.