Ushuru coach James 'Odijo' Omondi believes with sound planning the outfit will bring to an end their four years stay at the National Super League. Ushuru served off their 2019-2020 season with a hard fought 1-0 win over St Joseph Youth yesterday at the Ruaraka grounds. Odijo was appointed as a replacement to the sacked and long serving Ken Kenyatta and the former Muhoroni Youth coach is keen to build on the win and grab one of the two automatic promotion slots at the end of the season. Ushuru have in the past three seasons been promotion contenders but a sluggish finish in the final rounds have proved to be their major undoing but the new tactician believes his philosophy flanked by the support and good planning will bring the much-sought return. "It feels great to begin the new season with a win and especially in a tough match where the opponent sits deep. It shows we have the right character and I think with good planning we will get promoted at the end of the season. My style of coaching is different from that of my predecessor and the players have already adapted to it and will support from all quarters we will hit the target." Ushuru were expecting to make light work of the visiting Nakuru based club courtesy of the experience harboured in the playing unit but Odijo said the absence of four of his dependable players worked against his plan of netting goals at will. Jackton Onjala netted the winner in the 82nd minute. Odijo revealed that he missed the services of their last season's top scorer Brian Yakhama, Brian Okeyo, Evans Maliachi and David Mwangi who all sat out thanks to injuries. "We came up against a team which we were not aware of their playing style but I am happy for the win. Worse still we missed four senior players whom I believe would have made the final score healthier." In other matches played, Mt Kenya United began life in the second tier on the losing note as they succumbed 3-0 to Bidco United at Thika Stadium while returnees and 2017 champions Vihiga United beat Migori Youth 3-1. Former KPL side Nairobi City Stars saw off Shabana 2-0 at the Hope centre.