Garissa Woman Representative Anab Gure wants AP officers withdrawn from the border town of Galmagala in Fafi returned. The lawmaker on Friday said their absence will undermine efforts to boost security. The area had previously been prone to terror attacks. On Wednesday, it was alleged that county police commander  Alfred Angeng’o had instructed the Bura division police boss to withdraw the officers and immediately redeploy them to Mansabubu. But the county police boss dismissed the allegations and termed them as unfounded. He said what happened was a normal reshuffle that should not be a cause for concern. “We’ve not moved the officers as alleged by the woman rep. What we’ve done is a reshuffle. The number of officers stationed at the camp will still remain the same,” he said. The Star has reliably learnt that the station, which was formerly an AP camp but was turned into a patrol base after the merger in the police service, had five officers and all were redeployed. It is now manned by police reservists. Speaking to the press in Garissa town, however, Gure maintained that the officers had been withdrawn. “It is unwise for the government to withdraw security forces from an area, which has, for long, had insecurity cases and deploy them to a less-volatile area without giving substantive reasons that led to such action. This is what is called structural violence aimed at undermining any community from any development,” she said. “I’ve raised the matter with the top security apparatus and hope something will be done urgently about it. It’s so devastating when matters security are taken with less consideration and less urgency depending on how prone some areas are to insecurity.” She termed it unfortunate that the action has been taken at a time when teachers and children are going back to school, adding that nurses and other civil servants were contemplating fleeing the area. Al Shabaab militants have remained active in Northeastern, especially in towns and settlements that border Somalia. In August 2013, they attacked the Galmagala AP camp and killed four officers before razing it. (Edited by F'Orieny)