Bandari midfielder Danson Chetambe has urged for caution despite the fact that the Dockers carry a healthy lead to Tunisia for their return leg fixture against US Ben Guerdane. He was, however, confident they can overcome the hostile Tunisian crowd and book their place in the next round of the Caf Confederations Cup at the expense of US Ben Guerdane. In the first leg a fortnight ago, late goals by Yema Mwamba and Abdallah Hassan gave the Kenyans a 2-0 advantage and Chetambe believes the clean sheet they managed at home will hold them in good stead. “It was important that we got the win. Now we go to Tunisia with something to hold onto. We know if we avoid defeat, we are likely to reach the next round which will be a historic achievement for this club,” said the former Zoo Kericho play-maker. Unlike in his time at Zoo, where he was considered the go-to man and was expected to provide the goals to bail out his team time and time again, ‘Dante’ has found himself among key players with his role now more controlled. “There are obviously more quality players in Bandari with the team competing for honours year in year out. I am glad to be part of this team and I have now to look forward rather than backwards,” he said. In the return leg, the defence will be key for Bernard Mwalala’s men with Nicholas Meja and Felly Mulumba expected to play a key role ahead of Bernard Wanyika. Dependable defender Bernard Odhiambo is still a long term injury casualty and was not included in the squad. The dockers were due to fly out of the country yesterday for Tunisia with the match set to be played tomorrow. Striker Khalid Yahia who gave them a rough time in the first leg will once again be the main threat for Guerdane who will be hoping to overturn the considerable deficit in front of their own fans. Whoever wins this encounter will go into the playoff round, whose second leg victor will now move to the group stages where sixteen teams will be placed in four pools from where the top two teams qualify for the quarter-finals.