The Independent Policing Oversight Authority has begun investigations into police involvement in Baby Dan Githinji’s death in Kahawa West. Two police officers were conducting a raid on chang'aa dens in Kahawa West on September 8, when a stray bullet shot Baby Githinji The authority’s chairperson Anne Makori announced on Saturday that they had launched a probe into the child’s death alongside other incidents. Makori said IPOA will investigate “volition into the incident with a view of unravelling the circumstances leading to the fatal shooting.” She made the statement when she visited the deceased’s home at Soweto slum on Saturday. “The matter is now under active investigations and upon conclusion, the authority will make recommendations and forward the investigation file to the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions for his advice and appropriate directions,” she added. The IPOA boss said they had also dispatched their Rapid Response teams to parts of the country to conduct independent investigations into police shootings. In Mowlem village in Endebess, Trans Nzoia county, a five-year-old girl Daisy Chepkoech was allegedly fatally shot by police officers during an eviction exercise following a court order. The authority is also investigating the case of Samuel Njenga who was arrested on September 10 on suspicion of theft by police officers from Charagita police post in Ol Joro Orok, Nyandarua county. He died while in police custody at Ngano police station. “Separately, IPOA also dispatched its Rapid Response Team to investigate an incident in which a matatu driver was allegedly shot and injured by a deputy police commander in Embu county,” Makori said. Makori said that IPOA remains committed to independence, impartiality and fairness in its operations. Baby Githinji died on his way to Embu Level Four Hospital in Kiambu county after a stray bullet hit him while playing within the slum. Two police officers have since been remanded at Kasarani police station following the incident. Residents claimed that one of the officers shot the bullet which struck the child following a squabble with some two women over an illicit brew. The claims are that the officers had poured chang’aa belonging to the women after they failed to bribe them. Police bosses have denied the claims. Nairobi regional police commander Philip Ndolo said that the officers were on official duty when the incident occurred.