Three kilometres southeast of Machakos town is Kiima Kimwe, loosely translated as one hill, a knoll that towers over the town’s skyline. This scenic hill dotted with a patchwork of small farms and a rocky outcropping has been home for many families for years. But right at its foot near Kathele village is an ecological disaster waiting to happen. First is the stench of waste and putrefaction emanating from open trenches and mounds of rotting garbage. There is no proper waste disposal system for more than 1,000 people. Surprisingly, most of the dwellers appear unbothered as they continue with their daily lives, oblivious or numb to the health risks associated with filth. A resident called Simon described how tenants often fall sick from waterborne diseases. He blamed landlords and county authorities for the mess, calling for quick intervention. “It’s time for a change in this village. We need a good sewerage system that will make us proud of our village,” he said. Another resident who only gave her name as Veronica aid raising the matter with the concerned authorities was futile "as the majority of the landlords work for the county government". “Complaining about this problem to the county authorities will never work,” she said. on the matter, Machakos Water and Sewerage Company Managing Director Winfred Mbai said no sewer lines had ever been constructed. She said a contractor has already been hired to build a sewer system. Mbai blamed residents for the problem, saying that attempts to solve the problem have always been met with resistance by Kathele tenants and house owners. “Our sewer line project would have commenced a long time ago but the residents have been obstructing it every time. In fact, most of the piping has been vandalised by the public, forcing us to pay huge costs for repair," she said. Mba said she was optimistic the problem will finally be sorted and the entire water supply system in Machakos Township will be rebuilt. Nothing has been done since 1957. Machakos Town and its environs consume 4,000 cubic meters of water per day. The county receives 99 per cent of its water from the giant Maruba Dam while the deficit comes from government and private boreholes. The colonial-era dam constructed in 1957 has a capacity of 12 billion cubic metres. At capacity, the dam can supply 5,000 t6o 6,000 cubic metres of water daily to 170,000 residents of Machakos and its environs. Edited by R.Wamochie