Kisumu County Assembly speaker Onyango Oloo on Saturday surrendered himself at Central Police Station in Mombasa. Oloo in the company of 20 MCAs walked into the CBD-based police station at around 1pm before he was detained. This follows an order by Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Hajji over inflation of the cost of Lake Basin Mall. According to a police officer at the station, Oloo was detained of EACC's detectives who arrived at the station, questioned him and left. When the Star visited the station, Oloo was at locked at the OB area and was chatting with dozens of visitors in dholuo language while occasionally wiping dripping sweat on his face. At one point he told one visitor that police had taken his fingerprints and other details. "I'm a detainee I cannot talk to press now," he said when  journalists tried to interrogate him. Central Nyakach MCA Philimon Juma said, "We thought we would just arrive and leave but they arrested him". Juma said the speaker decided to surrender himself after receiving news of his looming arrest on Friday evening in  the press while at Pride Inn Hotel in Shanzu. "This is a clear indication that the speaker was not on the run as alleged," he said. Currently Mombasa DCIO Anthony Mureithi, Central Police OCS Ling'ole Julius and Urban OCPD Eliud Monari are holed in a meeting over the fate of Oloo after barring the press from taking photos of Oloo. Kisumu MCAs have been having a meeting at the hotel since Thursday last week and are scheduled to leave tomorrow on Sunday. DPP Noordin Haji in a statement on Friday said investigations were launched by EACC on July 28 after the commission received a complaint of inflation of the cost from Sh2.5 billion to Sh4.1 billion. HAJI ordered arrest of Oloo, former Lake Basin Development Authority managing director Peter Aguko and Bobasi MP Innocent Obiri. During construction of the Mall, Haji said additional scope of work was irregularly added during a meeting in December 2014 for an additional Sh620 million for the mall and another Sh680 million for a showroom, tyre centre and three-star mall. The board is also accused of approving the borrowing of Sh1.3 billion from Co-operative Bank, bringing the total borrowing to Sh2.5 billion.