Two chiefs from Narok county have left their farms within the Maasai Mau Forest ahead of the expiry of a 60-day eviction notice from the government. Sogoo chief Nelson Kobei and Tendwet assistant chief Edwin Bett heeded the government's directive and moved out to pave way for restoration. Narok county commissioner Samuel Kimiti told journalists in his office on Wednesday that the government had helped Kobei transport his belongings. Kimiti said Bett had land in Mau and had been using it for farming. “This was a good gesture from the chiefs. They have set an example for other settlers who are still clinging to the forest,” Kimiti said. He said the two administrators will continue serving in the area. “The people under the two administrators should not panic that we have sacked their chiefs," he said. The county commissioner said his office has received more than 100 title deeds, land allotments and sale agreement from settlers. He dismissed rumours that the eviction of illegal settlers had begun after a posho mill and two motorbikes were set on fire in Total area near Mau forest on Wednesday. "We have arrested a man behind the ugly incident. We established that differences between two people had led to the arson, not on eviction,”  Kimiti said. The administrator urged other settlers who are still in the forest to move out before the 60 days’ notice expires. “Those still in the forest should move out early because only one month is left before the government starts evicting people,” Kimiti said. The administrator also encouraged the residents who have already moved out to declare how they acquired the land and present any documents they hold. Security in the area has been strengthened with patrol being enhanced and barriers placed in the area to prevent any illegal logging. The second phase of the water towers restoration is estimated to affect over 10,000 households. At least 8,000 schoolgoing children and over 1,000 candidates set to sit their national exams could be affected. During the first phase of the eviction in July last year, about 7,700 people were evicted from the forest land and over 12,000 acres of the forest was reclaimed. Reiya group ranch bore the brunt of the evictions. In the second phase Nkoben, Ilmotiok and Ololunga are on the radar. The others are Enokishomi, Enoosokon, Nkaroni and Sisian. The Maa leaders wanted the evictions to go on while the Kalenjin leaders want it stopped terming it illegal and inhuman. The Mau is the largest water tower in the country supporting millions of human life and wildlife in Kenya and beyond. (edited by O. Owino)