The Senate has summoned Foreign Affairs CS Monica Juma over the state's lack of intervention to save Kenyans caught up in the xenophobic attacks in South Africa. The senators accused the state of turning a deaf ear to the plight of hundreds of Kenyans who are being maimed and their businesses destroyed. The legislators said the government has not evacuated Kenyans despite other countries moving fast to rescue their citizens. “We have not seen any action from the government. It has not even issued a travel advisory on South Africa yet people, including Kenyans, are being killed there,” Migori Senator Ochilo Ayacko said. He said the deafening silence portrays the government’s insensitivity to the pain and suffering of Kenyans. “These people send home billions of shillings but now the state does not care about them. This is a serious matter and the CS must been called to explain,” he added. CS Juma will appear before the National Security, Defence and Foreign Relations Committee chaired by Garissa Senator Yusuf Haji to explain the lack of action by the ministry. Vice chair Senator Johnson Sakaja said that the government needs to have evacuated Kenyan nationals from South Africa long ago. “These attacks started a month ago, if the government was responsible enough and sensitive to the plight of the citizens, our people should not have undergoing all these,” he said. Senators Mutula Kilonzo Jr (Makueni), Ledama ole Kina (Narok), Njeru Ndwiga (Embu) and Abshiro Halake (nominated) criticised the government for its apparent inaction on the plight of Kenyans. For the last one month, South African youth have been attacking indigenous people and destroyed businesses. Some have been hacked to death. Early this month, the ministry announced that two Kenyans had been affected in the wave of attacks. The CS condemned the attacks and said that the government was monitoring the situation. “We woke up to troubling news about xenophobic attacks against non-nationals in several places in South Africa,” she said. "We welcome the strong condemnation of these attacks by the government of South Africa and hope that the ethos and values and values of Pan Africanism will prevail over narrow nationalism, and be the bond, and be the bonds that glue us together, as African brothers and sisters." Juma assured Kenyans that the High Commission was working closely with South Africa to ensure safety of its citizens.