The decision by Boeing to pay the families of 346 people killed in two 737 MAX 8 crashes $144,500 (Sh15 million) each is not related to lawsuits against the company,  lawyers have said. Chege Njoroge, a lawyer for two Kenyan families, said the payment “has nothing to do with settlement or compensation”,  he said. “We were not engaged,” Njoroge said. Claimants are not required to waive or release the right to litigate as a result of going for the claims, he said. Njoroge said they learnt of the company’s decision through media reports. On Monday, International media reported that the amount to be used to pay families will come from a $50 million (Sh5 billion) financial assistance fund that was announced July. Already, a team of local and international advocates has sued the US aircraft manufacturer Boeing for the deaths of Kenyans the Ethiopian Airlines crash on March 10. The law firms that include Irungu Kangata and Company Advocates (Kenya), VDA Trial Lawyers (Florida), and Laban Opande Attorneys and Counselors at Law (Texas) have filed suit against Boeing. This was after the 737 MAX crashed shortly after take-off in Addis Ababa, killing 157 on board. In October 2018, Lion Air Flight 610, nose-dived into the Java Sea, killing all 189 aboard. It also crashed shortly after takeoff. The lawyers representing victims said reports they have clearly show there were problems with the aircraft systems. The lawyers are looking to make claims to those parties who are responsible for the incident. They include the airline, the air carrier, manufacturers and insurance. About 30 countries lost their citizens; Kenya lost the most, 36 residents. The suit was filed in the Northern District Court in Illinois State. Under the Montreal Convention of 1999, the manufacturer is liable to pay for damages of as much as Sh17 million for proven deaths. It can be more, however,  depending on the financial needs of the deceased’s relatives. Yesterday, lawyer Irungu Kangata said the case will go on. “The payments are gifts but not compensation or court verdicts. The gifts are without prejudice to the ongoing court cases,” he said. The fund that is being used to pay families is being overseen by Washington lawyers Ken Feinberg and Camille S. Biros. Claims from family members are set to be accepted immediately. They are not required to waive or release the right to litigate as a result of going for the claims. (Edited by V. Graham)