President Uhuru Kenyatta’s decision to cancel the Sh22.2 billion Kimwarer Dam  project has angered residents who were ready to surrender their land. Kimwarer in Elgeyo Marakwet is mostly swampy and residents say the government should have allowed the project to proceed to uplift living standards. “We didn’t expect it to be cancelled, and we urge the government to review its position,” resident Ben Kiptoo said. Kanu official in Keiyo South, Paul Kibet, also faulted the move, saying the dam was the only major project in the area. “The President should know that the Keiyo community is unhappy because the Jubilee administration has done nothing for us. He should ensure we get other projects, including tarmacked roads, to replace Kimwarer dam,” Kibet said. More than 400 residents had been alerted by the Kerio Valley Development Authority (KVDA) to give up their land to pave the way for the Kimwarer project. A technical team headed by Infrastructure PS Paul Maringa found that the project had been overpriced and it was neither technically nor financially viable. About Sh4 billion had been paid to Italian firm CMC Di Ravenna, which had been contracted by the KVDA to develop the project. The technical team also found that the water supply for the dam would require pumping, which would be costly and unsustainable. Kimwarer was to be developed along with the Arror Dam in Elgeyo Marakwet, which was to cost Sh35 billion. The technical team established that the Arror dam was viable but had also been overpriced. The team recommended scaling down of the Arror project to rationalise the cost without hurting its performance or output. A new Bill of Quantities prepared by the team recommended that its height be reduced to 60 metres from the original plan of 96 metres. “We welcome the decision by the President to allow the Arror dam project to proceed. We ask the government to ensure that Kimwarer dam is implemented in the best way possible,” Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos said. Tolgos is the only politician in the region who openly backed the move by the DCI on those alleged to have been involved in the Arror and Kimwarer dam scandals. It is not clear if the Italian firm will be allowed to implement the Arror project. CMC Di Ravenna is still operating an office at KVDA Plaza in Eldoret. The National Land Commission (NLC) had suspended the process of relocating more than 800 families from Arror area for the project. NLC is in the process of identifying and purchasing 11 parcels of land in Uasin Gishu and Trans Nzoia for the families to be relocated. Former KVDA boss David Kimosop and his deputy Francis Kipkech were among those charged in court alongside suspended Finance CS Henry Rotich over the dam scandals. Elgeyo Marakwet  Senator Kipchumba Murkomen criticised the technical committee, saying it did not carry out public participation before making its recommendations of the Arror and Kimwarer projects. 