MPs have protested the continued government silence on demolition of buildings on riparian land. The lawmakers accused the Environment ministry and National Environment Management Authority of being discriminatory. They said all buildings on riparian land should have cleared across the country. Environment and Forestry Chief Administrative Secretary Mohammed Elmi asked for more time to give a report when he appeared before the National Assembly’s Environment Committee. MPs Muturi Kigano (Kangema), Benjamin Washiali (Mumias East) and Kareka Mbiuki (Maara) demanded to know why the government has abandoned the demolitions even after earmarking buildings that had encroached on riparian areas. Kigano had raised a question on the floor of the House on what the ministry is doing to reclaim riparian land and protect them from further encroachment. Yesterday, Kigano expressed dissatisfaction with the manner in which the government has handled what was supposed to be a national demolition exercise to save water catchment areas. “Nema is a den of corruption, that one I can substantiate anywhere,” Kigano said. Washiali alleged that some new buildings are already coming up on the exact spot where the government carried out demolitions. “You must know that the environment ministry is not all about Mau conservation. On this issue, we even got a list of buildings that were to come down, the project stopped somewhere after few buildings were brought down. It is not fair that we are part of this discrimination,” Washiali said. “A number of buildings were earmarked for demolitions. What happened?” Mbiuki asked. In December last year, the government through Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua suspended the demolitions "until further notice". Kinyua in a 2018 statement promised to issue further guidance before the exercise, which saw multi-billion shillings properties brought down, could resume. The move followed public outcry after several buildings were torn down and in some cases tenants were not even granted time to vacate. The multi-agency stakeholder team which was the face of the demolition was formed to among others restore reclaim riparian and public land grabbed by cartels. Java restaurant, Shell Petrol Station in Kileleshwa, the multi-billion shilling Southend Mall at Lang’ata Road-Mbagathi Way roundabout, Ukay Centre in Westlands and Taj Mall along Mombasa Road were among the first casualties of the operation.