Harambee Stars coach Francis Kimanzi is not perturbed by the injury crisis and absence of key players ahead of this Sunday’s international friendly match against Uganda. The team was dealt a blow yesterday as it emerged that Zesco United forward Jesse Were, who also doubles up as the Zambian league all time top scorer is likely to miss the match, thanks to a hamstring injury suffered last weekend. Were, who found his way back to the national team after being overlooked by Kimanzi’s predecessor Sebastien Migne in the past edition of the Africa Cup of Nations, spend the better part of yesterday’s training under the watch of the team doctor Wycliffe Makanga. The former Tusker player, who netted eight goals in 18 matches for his club last season, picked the injury while on duty against Zanaco FC and adds to the number of players who will miss the match. Other notable absentees are skipper Victor Wanyama and fast-rising centre half Joseph Okumu who were exempted to concentrate on club duties while Bernard Ochieng was axed due to an injury. Sofapaka forward John Avire, who is currently in Egypt after controversially signing for FC Tanta, did not honour the invitation while speedy winger Ayub Timbe who jetted in on Wednesday skipped the training session. Despite the setback, Kimanzi is casting his hopes on the rest of the available players among them four debutants, to edge the Ugandans who held Stars to a one-all draw in the last meeting played in March 2017. “Injuries are normal in football camps and we will work with the available ones. We summoned players two weeks in advance and we thank those who have turned up. It’s needless to the press panic button as we have the depth for the match and it's also an opportunity for others. Were got injured last weekend but his availability is important as it fosters the unity of the team.” Meanwhile, Kimanzi revealed that Japan-based striker Michael Olunga will wear the armband with Gor Mahia centre half Joash Onyango deputising him following Wanyama’s absence. He also said he anticipates a tough match, owing to the experience harboured in both teams. “We have settled on Olunga to skipper the team and Joash will be his assistant. Expect a good match as both teams are at par in terms of experience and exposure.”