It is a common trick rogue matatu crews have been using to steal from unsuspecting passengers. The crew identifies a target, mostly female, rich looking and offers her a front seat near the driver. They pretend that the door is broken and ask for your help closing it. During the commotion, they rob you. While some victims say the crew tells them to alight before or after your destination, others say they were pushed out. On Wednesday, a man was charged jointly with others not in court, with stealing from Elizabeth Njeri and two other women on separate dates. Abraham Emboha was charged with multiple counts of stealing or conspiracy to steal before Kibera law court senior principal magistrate Esther Boke. Njeri told court that she boarded a Nissan matatu, registration number KBB 217W, on Ngong Road heading towards the city center. The tout opened the front door and she took a seat next to  a passenger and the driver. “Before I could sit the vehicle started moving, so I sat quickly. The tout who was seated behind me was struggling to close the door and he asked for my help,” she narrated. Njeri said she held the door while the tout continued pulling, trying to close it. “During that commotion, the man seated between the driver andmeI took my handbag. I only noticed that he had it when I wanted to pay my fare,” she said. Njeri said she asked the driver to stop and the next bus stage and took my handbag. “As I was opening the handbag to get my purse which was inside, the driver asked me not to pay for today. So I left,” she told the court. Njeri said she entered a supermarket where she intended to do her shopping. “I was at the supermarket cashier after picking all the items I needed when I realised that I did not have my purse,” she said. Njeri said that inside the purse was a Sh70,000 Huawei phone, Sh12,000 cash, two ATM cards, two shopping smart cards and some accessories. “I immediately went in a Safaricom shop and asked them to block my line because it had sensitive information before reporting the matter to Kikimani police station the following day,” she said. On her way home from the station, Njeri said she received a phone call from a stranger informing her that he had found her documents thrown by the roadside. “The phone, cash, and perfume were missing from the purse,” she said. Njeri said she went to the same stage where she had first boarded the rogue matatu and after a few minutes, the same vehicle appeared. “This time, the same tout tried to convince me to take the back seat claiming that the front seat which I wanted was wet. I agreed,” she said. From the back seat, Njeri said she made a call to the officer from Kilimani police Station informing him that she was in the vehicle where she had been robbed the previous night. The officer asked her to hold brief as he was coming to the scene “After a short distance the tout instructed the driver to stop the vehicle and we were all instructed to alight as the vehicle had some mechanical problems. I realised that the tout either recognised me or overheard my phone conversation,” she said After alighting she told the court that the vehicle left and she called the police to inform him of the same. She had just boarded another vehicle when she saw the police impound the matatu. “I went to them and confirmed that it was, in fact, the vehicle whose crew stole from me,” she said. Another victim, Roselyne Mbithe told the court that the accused person convinced her to board his vehicle before they stole her laptop with the same trick. She said that in her case, the driver and the tout both pretended to be struggling to close the door before her laptop went missing. "The accused asked me to assist him to close the door and in the process, he hit my finger against the vehicle. I yelled but oblivious of my pain, the driver and the tout continued struggling with the door,” she said. CCTV footage played in court showed how the second witness was lured into the car, her finger pressed with the door and her laptop stolen. It showed a person, identified as the accused,  stealing the items. He picked a black rucksack from Mbithe’s lap and just as he pulled it, the driver banged the door hurting her finger. He then threw the bag next to the driver’s seat. As she yelled in pain, the matatu took off. She said the driver refused to stop at her destination and instead took her to the next stop. “I alighted and called my cousin explaining what had happened before I reported the matter to the police," she said. Emboha is accused of stealing from Elizabeth Njeri, Roselyne Mbithe and Pamela Karani on various dates this year. The hearing will continue in November. (Edited by V. Graham)