Stakeholders have moved to avert disaster at Kaimbaga Primary School, Ol Kalou after the media reported about a block of classrooms with cracked walls. The pupils have since been evacuated to safer classrooms. A committee of quantity surveys, structural engineers and the public health department was formed to assess the situation and give directions. Officials from the National Construction Authority visited the school yesterday and assessed the class before holding a closed-door meeting with area MP. Area MP David Kiaraho sought to exonerate his NG-CDF officials from the blame. Kiaraho accused the media of blowing the matter out of context. The MP was among the county and national government officials who visited the school on Monday. Nyandarua Central deputy county commissioner Gideon Oyagi, Nyandarua executive for public works Daniel Wangenye and area subcounty police commander Leonard Kimaiyu were among those who toured the school. “We have directed the relevant officers to assess the buildings and give a comprehensive report so that we know what steps to take,” Oyagi said On his part, Kiaraho said it is not the NG-CDF Board that built classes. He said the school board of management is responsible for hiring a contractor to do the work and supervise the workmanship. “My CDF committee gave out the money in 2016 and I think the BOM took the right steps. I expect the board members to be competent enough,” he said The next step, Kiaraho said, will only be taken based on the recommendations of the professional committee. “I am not defending anyone but if there was any wrongdoing, I am going to reprimand the school board of management,” he said Nyandarua county executive for public works, Daniel Wangenye, yesterday said the NG-CDF officials must carry their cross because they awarding themselves the contract. He said all the bills of quantities for public projects are supposed to be developed by the county department of public works which has qualified personnel. The same department inspects the buildings and issues completion certificates. Wangenye said NG-CDF boards from other constituencies follow these rules but Ol Kalou CDF has largely ignored them. “Going forward, we shall prosecute anyone who develops public projects without involving us,” he said.