            A woman has accused Lamu Senator Anwar Loitiptip of using and dumping her. The woman, 36, who cannot be named for legal reasons, told journalists at the Muslims for Human Rights offices yesterday that she met the youthful senator through Facebook in April. “He inboxed me through Messenger after seeing my Facebook page. At first he told me he had a business idea he wanted to share with me but things changed later when we met,” said the mother of a 15-year-old daughter. She said after a series of chats with the senator, they later met in Nairobi, barely two days after they started communication through Messenger - a communication application commonly used on Facebook. The woman claimed they stayed at Loitiptip’s house in Nairobi for two days before the senator said he needed to go to Kisumu where he had been called for a security meeting. "He never got in touch with me again. After three weeks, I started feeling unwell and when I took a test, I found out I was pregnant,” she said. The woman said that she had stayed single for long and thought that she had finally found someone special. She accused the senator of trying to silence her by threatening her with dire consequences should she ‘spoil his image’. Contacted, Senator Loitiptip accused the woman of forcing herself on him. “It is annoying. Someone wants to revive a relationship that existed over six months ago and wants to use it to tarnish my name,” said the 33-year-old lawmaker. Loitiptip who spoke at Mkomani in Nyali constituency,said the woman is older than him and their relationship could not work. “I knew her for less than a week. I thought it was a relationship that would blossom into something more serious but my expectations were not met,” he said. Loitiptip said he is now in a another relationship with his fiancé. He accused the woman of insulting his fiancé on social media. “I had to react. You cannot insult my fiancé and my family because of something that you want to force. You can't force love,” he told journalists. He denied sending goons to trail the woman as alleged. Loitiptip said she could be a pawn in a political game meant to kill his political career. “I have a lot of enemies. If I could be sending goons to everyone who wrongs me, how many people could have been hurt by now? I cannot do that,” he said. Muhuri chair Khelef Khalifa urged detective to get to the bottom of the matter. He said the woman's life is in danger. “Politicians should know that they cannot get away with everything. This is a new dispensation,” he said. The woman said he she has thrice been trailed by strange people. “I am scared,” she said. The strangers came to her house last Sunday, last Monday and again last Thursday. She has reported the matter at Kadzandani police post and recorded statements at the Dog Section and Nyali police station. Senator Loitiptip said he has also recorded statements. The DCI are investigating the matter.