 Nominated MP Maina Kamanda has accepted Kiharu legislator Ndindi Nyoro's apology for the scuffle at a Murang'a church with a caveat: do not repeat it. "When your child makes mistakes, you counsel him or her, strongly so if necessary – directly or through appropriate persons," Kamanda said in a statement on Monday while accepting the apology from the first time legislator whom he referred to as a son. The scuffle happened on September 8 at Gitui Catholic Church in Kiharu, Murang'a. The MP's apology came a few days after Bishop James Maria Wainaina of the Catholic Diocese of Murang’a demanded an apology from politicians for the chaos that rocked the church that Sunday afternoon. The bishop cancelled all church political invitations and demanded an apology from the politicians involved. Nyoro was arrested the following day but was not arraigned. The Director of Public Prosecutions said the police had not forwarded any file to him in connection with the incident. It is not clear whether the police were the 'appropriate persons' Kamanda may have used to "counsel" the Kiharu MP. Nyoro's apology and appeal for forgiveness was made last Sunday at Igwe ACK Church near Gitui Catholic Church. The MP is allied to Tangatanga Jubilee wing while Kamanda is in the Kieleweke wing of the ruling party. "The Gitui Catholic Church incident was regrettable and on behalf of Mr Maina Kamanda and his team, I apologise to the Catholic Church." The MP said, "On my own behalf and that of all politicians who attended the church service, in humility, I ask for forgiveness from the Catholic church and the entire church." Yesterday, Kamanda said politicians from the Mount Kenya region should be wary of "malicious and greedy external forces" seeking to misuse them to cause violence. "Anyone thinking he will divide our people to disrespect President Uhuru Kenyatta or to insult and hate Rt Hon Raila Odinga is in for a rude shock." The former Starehe MP said there would be political change in the country before December 2019 and that "thieves will face the music." "(The) Train has left the station. Thieves will face the music. A new Kenyan is being reborn," he said, adding: "A rainbow is emerging. A bridge was initiated for all of us to cross to Canaan." He was alluding to the Building Bridges Initiative task-force whose report is due next month.