Two governors have urged the church to pray for money for cash-starved counties. Busia Governor Sospeter Ojaamong and his Kericho counterpart Paul Chepkwony on Sunday urged pastors to pray for the committee handling the division of revenue impasse that has brought county operations to a halt. They said the financial crisis facing counties has not been created by governors but by senators and MPs. Psembers of Parliament. They spoke during a funds drive at St Peter Kaliwa Sub Parish Catholic Church in Teso South subcounty. The Senate had proposed Sh335 billion, the National Assembly Sh316.5 billion. They couldn't agree; now a committee is trying to hammer out a compromise. Ojaamong and Chepkwony called for prayers to the committee can come up with an amicable solution to the stalemate over how much should be disbursed to Counties. Chepkwony said governors cannot plan any activity with only Sh316 billion being given to them by the Commission on Revenue Allocation and argue that it is unconstitutional "The committee has a tall order to save the country from imminent paralysis by giving Counties what duly belongs to them before September 16 or counties might face a shutdown,” he said. Ojaamong said hospitals go without water and electricity after they were disconnected owing to non-payment of bills. He said Kenyans should support a  referendum that will send enough funds to the counties to promote development. Busia Woman Representative Florence  Mutua urged the new mediation committee to expedite the harmonisation process so that funds can be disbursed without delay. She said counties are suffering from unpaid salaries, no bursaries, disconnected electricity and water and suppliers stopping supplies owing to non-payment. She urged MCAs and governors to be patient as try to ensure that the committee discharges its duties urgently. Chairman of the Council of Governors Wycliffe Oparanya has said if funds are not released by September 16, most counties will be forced to close their operations. (Edited by V. Graham)