Former 800m world champion Wilfred Bungei is the latest victim of a car-theft syndicate the North Rift region. Bungei’s car, a maroon Subaru Outback KBT 965Y, was stolen at a hotel in Kapsabet town on Monday. It is yet to be found. Police are hunting for more than 20 suspects believed to be operating in Eldoret, Kericho, Bomet, Kitale, Iten and other major towns. The thieves' main targets are salon cars, matatus and lorries. Last week police raided the home of a businessman in Nandi county and seized eight vehicles and five tractors suspected to have been stolen. Uasin Gishu police commander Johnstone Ipara said the vehicles recovered at the home were towed to the Eldoret police station. Ipara said police are looking for more suspects. “Following credible information from the Special Crimes Unit, we carried out an operation where we recovered the vehicles and tractors hidden in the home of the suspect we have in custody,” Ipara said. He said the suspect could not explain how he acquired the recovered vehicles, including new ones that are not in the NTSA records. Some of them had fake number plates and chassis numbers. Three other suspects had earlier been charged in court over theft of motor vehicles in the region. Ipara said they suspect the vehicles found at the home in Nandi were stolen or diverted while in transit. KRA did not have records of the vehicles and tractors suggesting another offence of tax evasion, he said. The police boss said they had sent officers to other parts of the country to trace other suspects. “We also ask that if anyone lost his vehicle or tractor, they should check at the Eldoret police station. Those who may have bought vehicles from the businessman should verify details with NTSA and surrender them to police,” Ipara said. More than 300 vehicles have been stolen in the North Rift town in the past six months. “We have so far arrested suspects who are either involved directly or through other networks and we are looking for more,” Ipara said last week. He said the crackdown has been spread to Kericho, Nakuru, Iten and other areas. Stolen vehicles are either dismantled or repainted and fitted with fake number plates. Ipara warned garage owners and spare part dealers of arrest if found dealing with parts from dismantled cars. He said they are liaising with relevant agencies including KRA and NTSA to help piece together details on the recovered vehicles. “We want to know the source of the assets. The businessman along with other suspects will be charged with various offences,” Ipara said. (edited by O. Owino)