The behind-the-scene push and pull and State House meetings that forced the Senate to cede ground on its long-standing dispute with the National Assembly over a Bill on county cash can now be revealed. The Star has established that the leadership of the Senate was under intense pressure from President Uhuru Kenyatta and the Council of Governors to back down on their demands. Uhuru had maintained that the government was facing cash flow challenges and would not be in a position to raise Sh335 billion the senators demanded for the devolved units in the current financial year. The National Treasury and the National Assembly had insisted on Sh316 billion, while the Senate and the CoG demanded that the counties be allocated Sh335 billion in the Division of Revenue Bill, 2019. The President summoned Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka, Majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen and his Minority counterpart James Orengo to a meeting at State House where the head of state prevailed upon them to accept the government’s offer  - Sh316 billion. The three leaders had just arrived from the US where they had been for more than two weeks attending a parliamentary conference. “In fact, they cut short their stay in the US after the President summoned them. The head of state was not happy with the circus in Parliament,” a senator disclosed to the Star. It was during the State House meeting that the leaders learnt that the governors had planned a meeting with the President on Friday, September 6, to accept whatever amount they are allocated to ease pain in the counties. The governors, apparently desperate for cash, were ready to soften their hard stance and accept the government’s offer. Most counties had grounded to a halt. Workers had downed their tools for nonpayment of salaries, supplies had been cut in most counties and essential services crippled. Left alone in the push for higher allocation to the counties, the Senate leadership immediately convened a Kamukunji on Wednesday, September 4 and pleaded with the senators to accept the Sh316 billion lest they be left with an egg on the face. While addressing a press conference after the four-hour meeting in the Senate chambers, Murkomen said they made the “difficult and painful” decision to help avert a looming shutdown of services in the counties. “This [stalemate] would have a disastrous effect on critical sectors such as agriculture and health,” the Elgeyo Marakwet senator said. The governors had at the time threatened to shut down county operations by September 16 should the standoff in Parliament have persisted. SENATE IN A TRAP During an interview with the Star on Wednesday, Speaker Lusaka, though denied the House was under pressure to accept the Sh316 billion, disclosed that there was a clear plot by ‘somebody’ to portrait the Senate as a stumbling block to ending cash crisis in the counties. “We realised that somebody wanted to put us in a trap where now they can say that ‘you can see, it is the Senate that is stippling the counties and yet they are the ones who are supposed to be fighting for them',” he said. “There was no pressure but of course we had discussions. The government had indicated that it was not going to budge. So we realised that for how long were we going to argue. We just decided to be reasonable enough,” he added. Lusaka said the Senate ceded ground out of patriotism to save the counties, which were headed to the dogs. “We were patriotic. It was not a question of being defeated. When we went to the mediation committee, it was just a shouting match. There was no mediation that was going on. Nothing was moving. So, we realised that may some people who were in that committee were not well-intentioned. We did it for the counties that were suffering and we are the custodian of the counties,” he said. The Star established that the Kamukunji was heated. There were shouting matches and walkouts. Some senators rejected the Sh316 billion, arguing it would portray the Senate as a weak House that cannot protect the interest of the counties. Senators Ledama Olekina (Narok), Ali Abdullahi (Wajir), Njeru Ndwiga (Embu), Aaron Cheruiyot (Kericho) and Ochillo Ayacho (Migori) were opposed to the surrender and accused the House leadership of killing the Senate. “Of course, in a House of 68 people, not everybody will agree. But as democracy dictates, the minority will have their say and the majority their way,” Lusaka said. The bitterness and the split in the House over the decision to accept the Sh316 billion played out during the debate on the mediation report. Some Senators openly protested the move and walked out of the chamber. “I know that many of our colleagues would have wanted us to remain adamant, firm and not concede in so far as the amount going to counties is concerned,” Murkomen said. Olekina said, “I am one of the people who believe that we have failed Kenyans by allowing the Executive to control Parliament. We no longer have a Parliament in this country, and the country is run by one Executive. What the Executive wants, it is their way or the highway. We have failed Kenyans. Shame on us.” “Last week was a day of shame for this House. It reminded me of a hilarious play by the late Francis Imbuga called “Betrayal in the City”. Indeed, we betrayed Kenyans,” Bungoma Senator and Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang'ula said. “I want us to understand that although the President of the Republic of Kenya can be considered as the Chief Executive of the enterprise known as the Republic of Kenya, but the people who speak for the people for Kenya who are the ‘shareholders’; we are the ‘directors’ and the Chief Executive cannot make a decision without directors,” Orengo said.