Mason Mount spent the moments after England’s thrashing of Bulgaria darting around the home changing room like an autograph hunter. Each member of Gareth Southgate’s squad was given his shirt and a pen to write a message with, and soon it will be framed and hung on the wall at Mount’s home. He is now a fully-fledged senior international and the huge smile he sported when talking about the achievement conveyed his immense pride. Mount’s Wembley cameo capped a remarkable 12 months. A year ago this week, he made his Under 21 debut in the remote Latvian town of Jelgava in front of a handful of spectators. He showed his immense promise with a goal and an assist to inspire England to a 2-1 win. The 20-year-old went on to enjoy a fine season in the Championship on loan at Derby and is now flourishing in the Premier League under Frank Lampard’s guidance, showing why, in August 2018, Southgate called him a ‘super young player’. His first senior cap, though, does not represent the end of a journey. Having come on in front of a full house at Wembley, the Chelsea midfielder is determined to turn a first appearance into a first start and hopes it will come tonight in Southampton against Kosovo. “It has been a crazy 12 months,” said Mount. “It was unbelievable, something you dream about as a kid. There were not many people there for that Under 21 game and it was like playing on a school pitch. But it went well and everything has gone so quickly. I have just tried to learn everything I can.” “You get a little bit nervous every time you get asked to step up. But when I am on the pitch, the nerves go away and you focus on the game, trying to have an impact. Every time there is a target and a goal, I try to push and reach that goal.” Age is no barrier to progression in this England team and Mount - whose first contribution after coming on was an excitable shot that flew high and wide - has explained the ambition of youth is proving inspirational for those who are trying to establish themselves. “It gone so well so far,” said Mount. “If you look at our squad it’s young - one that wants to learn and wants to win. If you are playing well, you are going to get a chance. When you do, you have to take it. But you have to earn it. This was a massive moment for me. I want more opportunities.”