Public health officials have raised the alarm of the high number of unclaimed bodies across the city's public health facilities and at City Mortuary. Records from the county's health department show there are currently 273 unclaimed bodies in Nairobi's facilities. Mbagathi and Mama Lucy hospitals and the City Mortuary have the most number of unclaimed bodies. The City Mortuary had 172 unclaimed bodies as of September 2. County health executive Mohammed Dagane said that the number of unclaimed bodies in the county's health facilitates is alarming. “There should be no cases of unclaimed bodies in health facilities because these are patients who had been admitted there and have passed away,” he said. Dagane said some of the bodies are abandoned by the relatives who might not be able to clear hospital bills. Last week, the Star established that at Mbagathi Hospital there are 97 unclaimed bodies lying at the morgue: 56 males and 41 females. At Mama Lucy Hospital, which is among the county's main health facilities, there were 24 bodies as Monday this week with four bodies unclaimed. In 2016, City Mortuary received 4,115 bodies, in 2017 a total of 4,025 bodies were received and in 2018 the bodies at the morgue were 2,018. The record, however, does not indicate the number of bodies so far received by the mortuary since the year started. In 2016, Mama Lucy had a total of 1,055 bodies in its morgue however, in 2017 the number decreased to 399. Last year the facility accommodated 1,436 bodies and up to September this year, the number of bodies recorded at the facility is 1,275. Dagane said some families abandoned their dead despite notifications of their deaths from the health facilities. “In such cases, the hospital cannot abandon the bodies. They are therefore taken to the morgue until the relatives come,” Dagane said. The administration has appealed to the public to identify the bodies of their loved ones so that they can be cleared from the morgues. Dagane said Mbagathi morgue, with its capacity of 120 bodies, was overstretched by the 97 unclaimed bodies. “This means that there are only 23 cold rooms that have been left for other bodies. We don't want to have unknown bodies piled up at the morgue so that it cannot function properly,” he added. However, the health executive said the high number of unclaimed bodies at City Mortuary could be explained by other factors. “Bodies taken to City Mortuary include those found on the roadsides by good Samaritans, those involved in road crashes and also bodies found around the city abandoned,” Dagane said. In 2006 Kenya's two main public mortuaries (City Mortuary and Kenyatta National Hospital mortuary) lost millions in uncollected revenue from unclaimed bodies. In about five months, City Mortuary and Kenyatta National Hospital mortuary disposed of over 1,500 unclaimed bodies, losing about Sh5 million.