Kiss FM breakfast show is back with a bang. The 'Morning Kiss' will now be hosted by Kamene Goro and Andrew Kibe starting Monday. "In as much as it is hard to [be] real on the radio nowadays, expect real conversations from the two of us," Kibe said. Kamene said, "Our show is going to be very authentic and some people might not like us because we are not the kawaida [usual] presenters." She said people have been wondering how the show will turn out and urged them to tune in from Monday 6am-10am to find out. "It is dope to see that someone had a strong belief in us because many people have been afraid of our brand, especially because of the immense topics we have been discussing," Kamene said. Radio Africa has digitised the Kiss studio to ensure engagement between the presenters and their fans. "We found it important to do so in order to create more content for digital by making sure that the content is present on all our social media platforms. Morning Kiss show will start at 6am and end at 10am," Programme controller James Njoroge said. "After the show, the content will be streamed on social media with a lot of engagement with the listeners." A research carried out by international research firm Geopoll ranked Kiss FM the third most listened to radio station, with 1.12 million listeners. Radio Africa Group general manager Martin Khafafa said his mission is to hold the position. “It is expected that after the new Kiss breakfast show goes on air, the station will do better," he said. Njoroge said, "We have been quite successful in the past and we looking to basically take over the market with a completely new show and the personalities are big and well known to people." He added that the main objective is to bring more fun to listeners as well as educate them. Kiss FM producer X-tian Dela said they are recharged. "I hope our competitors are ready to create space for us because we are taking over the industry, with real and relatable conversation. We are here to talk about the real issue," he said. Social media producer Rege Diyalo said people should not worry about missing any content. "The clock will run from 5am to 5pm and so if one misses any content during the showtime, we at social media will be ready to spread the content throughout the day and even engage with the presenters. The content will be on all Kiss FM social media platforms," he said. Kiss breakfast show was first run by Caroline Mutoko and then Adelle Onyango.