Wiper leadership has vowed to campaign against the Punguza Mizigo initiative in all its political strongholds across the country. Party leader Kalonzo Musyoka, chairman Ali Chirau Makwere and the majority of politicians from Ukambani region said they will ensure that all their county assemblies shoot down the bill. They said that the Building Bridges Initiative is the way to go. The leaders included MPs Musili Mawathe (Embakasi South), Borabu South MP Ben Momanyi, Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jnr, former Machakos Senator Johnson Muthama, and Wiper chairman Ali Chirau Makwere. Other were Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria, former Makadara MP Rueben Ndolo, Mavoko MP Patrick Makau and several MCAs. Mawathe criticised the people opposed to the BBI. He questioned why they do not  support it yet they did not know what it entails. “You don’t know its content and you are rejecting it. We want what will bring peace,” Mawathe said. The MP said, if  backed, the BBI will solve issues of violence that occur  each year there is an election. Borabu South MP Momanyi said that MCAs from his county had shot down the Punguza Mizigo Bill. The leaders spoke on Saturday during former Kathiani MP Wavinya Ndeti's late husband, Prince Henry Oduwole’s, third anniversary at her farm in Kinanie, Machakos. Makueni Senator Kilonzo said as a party, they support the BBI and oppose the Punguza Mizigo Bill. “As Wiper, we had already decided and it is in our constitution. Those who are not in support should look for other parties,” Kilonzo said. He urged Kalonzo to look for President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga to resolve the BBI and Punguza Mizigo stalemates. Kilonzo said there are various articles in the Constitution which Parliament can amend without a referendum. Former Senetor Muthama said leaders should let the BBI report be released and study it before criticising it. “I will have to study the BBI report to see if it has benefits to Kenyans. If it has, we will support it. If it is not, we will oppose it,” Muthama said. He, however, told politicians to forget about a constitutional amendment. Wiper chair Makwere said Kenyans need to be alert and careful. “Wale watu wenye wanababaika hata kama BBI report haijatoka wana nia mbaya. [Those panicking even before the BBI report is released have bad intentions]. They will fail,” Makwere said. He criticised Deputy President Ruto for opposing the President. "Anybody who opposes President Uhuru is Kenyans’ enemy," he said. Gatundu South MP Kuria hit out at the Punguza Mizigo crusaders. Kuria said that the BBI is not a referendum. “People should leave BBI report to be released and we read it. Let it be brought to Parliament we discuss it.`' “Kalonzo Musyoka ataokoa BBI, hawa watu wengine wanataka kuchoma Kenya. [Kalonzo will save BBI, these other people want to burn Kenya],” Kuria. Former Makadara MP Ndolo questioned those who were opposed to the BBI. He said if President Uhuru, Raila, ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and Kalonzo support the BBI, then who are those opposing it. He, however, said that a referendum should not be included in BBI since it will divide the country. “We want to unite the country, we want the truth this time,” Ndolo said.  