Phase two of the iconic Bukhungu Stadium in Kakamega County has kicked off after the site was handed over to the contractor on Tuesday. Kakamega County Government through the Social Services, Youth, culture, and sports executive committee member, Robert Makhanu, said they are committed to complete the second phase of the multi Million project in less than three years. M/S Wilkori building and Construction Company will be charged with the responsibility of constructing the second phase of the stadium. "On behalf of the county governor under governor  Wycliffe Oparanya, we are pleased to hand over the site to M/S Wilkori building and Construction Company as we seek to complete the works which we started two years ago. "Kakamega Country is privileged to have a governor who is passionate about football having served in a senior administrative position at AFC Leopards. He, therefore, wants to leave behind an indelible legacy in the sporting industry,” Makhanu said He added that Governor Oparanya’s passion for nurturing talent through the development of sports activities inspired the vision of Bukhungu Stadium’s facelift. " We want to complete the work of putting up modern well-covered stands that can accommodate over 25,000 people and upgrade Bukhungu to become one of the best stadia in East Africa region and even beyond," said Makhanu. He said they hope to finalise on Phase Two by 2022. He, however, assured football fans that the stadium will continue to operate as usual with only the affected areas being closed for the public. The first phase of Bukhungu stadium was completed in December 2017 at a cost of  Sh 450 million. It has since hosted Cecafa Senior Challenge matches and Kenya Premier League matches. Once complete, the stadium will have conference facilities, indoor gymnasiums, media centre, recreational park, swimming pool, warm-up pitches, banks and shops among other facilities. The stadium is expected to meet international standards not only for sports and recreational activities but also for meetings and conferences.