 Residents of Kibwezi have petitioned the Kenya Wildlife Service over incessant attacks by elephants that have killed people and livestock and cause huge destruction of crops. The petition was tabled in the National Assembly by MP Jessica Mbalu. The residents want KWS compelled to fence the Tsavo East, West, and Kyulu Hills national parks. They also want the agency to continuously compensate victims of elephant attacks for loss of lives, death of livestock, and destruction of property. Mbalu told the Environment Committee chaired by Maara MP Kareke Mbiuki that KWS should erect an electric fence around the parks to stop the elephants from straying into villages. She said KWS last worked on the park’s fence 13 years ago and that many years of neglect have left the barriers run down. Elephant invasions have escalated following drought causing the closure of many schools, sometimes for weeks to avoid attacks. Most affected areas are Msongaleni, Mtito Andei, Thange, and Ivingoni-Nzambani wards. The animals come out to look for water and run down water tanks in schools. Sometimes the tanks are destroyed, Mbalu said. She said KWS rangers were often overwhelmed by the determined beasts. “Children don’t go to school in these areas. Women fear going to fetch water because of the elephants,” Mbalu said. “We need to construct more water pans so that the animals get water in their habitat. There are areas that had dams for the elephants, which can be revived.” The locals want the number of KWS patrol camps increased for sufficient surveillance to ensure quick response to distress calls when the animals stray into human settlements. Tourism and Wildlife PS Fred Sigor, while before the committee, said KWS would consider fencing the schools as parts of its Community Social Responsibility. Segor cited budgetary constraints as the hindrance to the agency’s efforts to fence the porous parks. Sigor promised action to end the attacks pledging to fast-track the fencing of the schools, at least to guarantee pupils safety for the hours they are learning. Experts have attributed the attacks to increased human settlements and the standard gauge railway which have changed elephants’ migratory routes.  edited by peter obuya