The outcome of the Kibra by-election will determine the automatic presidential candidate for the Luhya community, Lugari MP Ayub Savula has said. He said whoever performs better between ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and Ford Kenya’s Moses Wetang’ula will be undisputed torchbearer in the 2022 election. Savula spoke on Saturday at Itumbu Primary School in Lugari constituency where he presided over the groundbreaking for building of two classrooms. Both Wetang'ula and Mudavadi have declared interest in the presidency. Ford Kenya and ANC have each fielded a candidate for November 7 by-election in spite the much-hyped Luhya unity talks. ANC has fielded former ODM leader Raila Odinga’s 2013 presidential campaign manager Eliud Owalo while the Ford Kenya candidate is Hamisi Butichi. “What is happening in Kibra is a contest for a parliamentary seat and has nothing to do with Luhya unity. We shall deal with unity of the community after Kibra,” Savula said. The MP asked Wiper party to back the ANC candidate in Kibra in the interest of NASA coalition. He said that ANC stood with Wiper in the Embakasi South by election in the spirit of the coalition after ODM reneged on their agreement and fielded a candidate. Wiper's Julius Mawathe retained his seat after beating ODM's Irshad Sumra. Savula dismissed as nonsense claims by a section of MPs allied to Deputy President William Ruto that ANC was being funded by the Office of the President. He said that ANC was playing the official opposition role and there was no way it could fuse with government. Savula said Mudavadi is capable of financing his own political activities and its Tangatanga MPs from Central Kenya who are following DP Ruto for handouts. “We’re aware that this is part of team Tangatanga propaganda to try and discredit Mudavadi because they know he is the man to beat in 2022. I want to tell them that they will fail terribly,” Savula said. He said that Ruto’s attempts to penetrate Western Kenya failed because he engaged “political merchants” out for personal gain instead of the interest of the community. 