Wazalendo coach Fidelis Kimanzi showered his boys with praise following a dominant 3-0 display and a first clean sheet in five matches against Sikh Union during the Kenya Hockey Union men's Premier League tie played at the City Park Stadium yesterday. Nelson Shilaku handed Wazalendo the 6th-minute lead before Joseph Kaswa scored a second in the 39th minute as  Eric Otieno put the result to bed with a third in stoppage time. Wazalendo moved to the second position with twenty points after yesterday win on the table standings. Kimanzi termed the win special because the defence was not breached. "This was a unique win because it has been a while since we kept a clean sheet. The result is down to hard work and dedication from the lads. We will prepare on our Wednesday's match with a relaxed mind as we focus on getting results." His opposite number Amit Rajput reiterated the need to tighten defence. " We let in cheap goals and some decisions went against us. The team has improved and defensive wise we will work on our lapses." In the women's Premier League, Telkom beat Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology (JKUAT) 4-0. A goalless first quarter saw Jackie Mwangi break the deadlock in the 23rd minute before Simiyu Barbara doubled the lead in the 47th minute. Audrey Omaido made it 3-0 seven minutes later. Captain Lilian Aura completed the rout with a 4th in stoppage time to extend Telkom's lead at the top to 12 points against second-placed United States International University (USIU-A) Spartans. The students are winless and pegged at the bottom of the standings with two points. Elsewhere, a string of desperately poor performance and embracing an old-fashioned conservative tactical approach for survival has been the feature in Kenyatta University Titans downfall. The students lost 1-0 to Sliders, thanks to a Charity Miller's 6th-minute goal. With relegation looking inevitable, Clifford Nyangiwara's tutored side will need to mastermind magical performance in the remaining games to survive. Meanwhile, Wolverines Premier League promotion quest received a major boost following 2-1 victory over Orange Leonas. Goals from Susan Wafula (20th) and Cynthia Amate (36th) ensured maximum points for the women Superleague leaders despite Sheila Chenani's 56th-minute consolation. It was Wolverines seventh win of the season and Leonas' third loss.