Real Madrid are only three games into the new season and they have already dropped four points. Zinedine Zidane might not be under too much pressure over the next fortnight of international football but that is only because Barcelona have an even worse record and because Gareth Bale hasn’t forgotten how to score goals. Neither Barcelona’s form nor Bale’s goals can be credited to Zidane, who spent most of the summer trying to sell the Welshman. As well as failing to do that, he also looked on helplessly as the club failed to sign his number one transfer target Paul Pogba. Pogba will not be arriving, neither will Neymar. Keylor Navas has left – that’s something else he did not want to happen. It has not been a good close season for the returning Real Madrid coach. Madrid’s transfer market started impressively with the signing of Eden Hazard but that was as good as it got and when midfielder Casemiro spoke after the Villarreal draw of the team ‘lacking everything’ he was echoing the sentiments of most of the club’s supporters. “This is a team and we should defend and attack as a team’ he added after the game. He is always willing to step forward after matches and speak to the media. Criticism, however, might very well start with him or at least in the position he occupies.” He is Real Madrid’s only holding midfielder and he was found wanting against Villarreal. It is just one of the many failings of the summer that they have not been able to buy someone to compete with him. They appeared not to even try. Another position they seemed to ignore was centre-back, where Sergio Ramos begins another season knowing that he is in the team every week. He was lucky that his first-half error happened early enough for it almost to have been forgotten. He looks past his best and yet Zidane has little option to build his defence around him and Raphael Varane because there is nothing else. The French coach left Nacho out of his squad on Sunday and clearly has little faith in Eder Militao, whose signing was agreed before he returned to the club. While wasting time trying to sell Bale — a player who never wanted to leave and had a long contract to ensure that he stayed – and while making half-hearted efforts to move for Paul Pogba who Manchester United made it clear early on they would not allow to leave, Real left so many other important tasks unfinished. The team looks much the same as it did last season. Last week with James Rodriguez on the pitch there were even shades of the way it appeared two and three years ago. There has been very little to be optimistic about in the first three games of the season. The club’s supporters are now hoping that Hazard can come back after the international break and offer some of the magic that has been so absent from the start to the season. Three games in, Madrid laboured and predictable, Bale their best player still — this is not the vision the club sold in the summer. Zidane’s failed revolution is already casting a huge shadow over the whole season.