The Non-Communicable Disease Unit at Gatundu Level 5 Hospital in Kiambu county has eased the headache of patients travelling to Kenyatta National Hospital for treatment. The centre which was established on an existing building of the hospital in 2016 has been credited for the provision of quick and quality treatment to patients. During a County Development Implementation and Coordination visit held at the hospital, County Commissioner Wilson Wanyanga together with other stakeholders commended the institution for serving a large number of patients within record time. Paediatrician Peris Njiri, who represented the hospital during the tour, said the centre serves about 80 patients suffering from diabetes and hypertension daily. She added that the clinic, which opens at 8am, is very efficient as most of the patients are usually gone from noon "to attend to their social-economic activities". She attributed this to the capacity of the centre to offer medical services at any given day, unlike other public medical institutions where one may have to wait even for months to receive the same treatment. “Here, you can come at any day at any given time. This is not a place like other medical institutions where you may even have to wait for the clinic days set aside for the treatment of those illnesses. This centre offers a great opportunity for those suffering from these conditions,” she said. She added that despite there being several other non-communicable diseases such as asthma, cardiovascular diseases, stroke and cancer, the centre focuses on diabetes and hypertension. In spite of cancer being the notorious scourge currently claiming the lives of many Kenyans, the hospital lacks the screening equipment, hindering the treatment of the disease. Nevertheless, the hospital’s health administrator John Kariuki said the centre has been able to reduce the burden at the level 5 hospital since its establishment last year. Before the center was constructed, diabetic and hypertensive patients used to be treated within the hospital. Inadequate specialists, an excessive number of patients and limited resources mainly contributed to the sharing of facilities with other departments within the hospital. Edited by R.Wamochie