Speedy Tusker winger Boniface Muchiri is looking to surpass his last season’s goal tally after bagging a brace in the opening round of the 2019-2020 season. Muchiri was in a form of his own last season, where he found the back of the net 12 times to emerge as the club’s top scorer and the second midfielder after Cliff Nyakeya to score more than ten goals. The dead-ball specialist intends to raise the bar higher this season in a bid to break last season’s record. He said he has been struggling to score goals consistently in the first leg but the brace recorded last weekend in their 5-2 loss to Gor Mahia will inspire him to break the jinx this season. “I am muscling to surpass the numbers I posted last season. I had a good run especially in the final rounds but this season, I have begun well and I am aiming at keeping the scoring rhythm. Putting two past the Gor keeper was a dream start to the target.” The former Sony Sugar star, who is currently with the national team, said he was eager to earn his first playing time in Stars colours against Uganda on Sunday in a friendly match. Muchiri was recalled to the team after a two-year-long hiatus last month and he has his sights on convincing coach Francis Kimanzi to consider him for playing time. He was an unused substitute against Sierra Leone in an Afcon qualifier match played in 2017 and against Tanzania last month in a 2020 Chan qualifier match. “I have been called to the national team twice before but I have never played a single minute. I feel this time around, the coach will consider me for playing time.” Meanwhile, Zesco United striker Jesse Were has defended the quality of the Zambian league against the attacks from former Harambee Stars coach Sebastien Migne. The Frenchman during his tenure used the quality of the league to justify Were’s omission from the team but the striker believes its better than the local Kenyan league. The quality down there is slightly higher than our local league even though the difference comes from the player’s input.”