Police raided the home of a businessman in Nandi County where they seized eight vehicles and five tractors suspected to have been stolen. Uasin Gishu Police Commander Johnstonne Ipara on Friday said they raided the home of Gideon Kipkosgey at Ndaptabwa village where the property was recovered and towed to the Eldoret police station. He said the businessman was arrested and they are looking for more suspects involved in theft syndicate for motor vehicles in the region. “Following credible information we got from the Special Crimes Unit, we managed to carry out an operation where we recovered the vehicles and tractors hidden the home of the suspect we have in custody”, said Ipara. He said the suspect could not explain how he acquired the recovered vehicles, including new ones that are not in NTSA records. Some of them had fake number plates and chasis numbers. Ipara said they suspect the vehicles were stolen or diverted while on transit and that KRA did not also have records of the vehicles and tractors, indicating that there was possible tax evasion. Ipara said they had sent officers to other parts of the country to trace other suspects involved. “We ask that if anyone has lost their vehicle or tractor, they should check at the Eldoret police station and those who may have bought vehicles from the businessman should check details with NTSA and surrender them to police,” said Ipara. Last week, police in Eldoret arrested three people in connection with motor vehicle thefts. More than 300 vehicles have been stolen in the North Rift town in the past six months. Many motorists have said they fear leaving their vehicles in parking lots in the town centre. On Tuesday, Ipara said police are looking for more suspects. “We have so far arrested suspects who are either involved directly or through other networks and we are looking for more,” said Ipara on the vehicles thefts racket after the three were arrested last week. He said the crackdown has been spread to Kericho, Nakuru, Iten and other areas. The thieves' main targets are saloons, matatus and lorries. Ipara warned garage owners and spare part dealers of arrest if found dealing with parts from dismantled cars. Stolen vehicles are either dismantled or repainted and fitted with fake number plates. Ipara said they had called in other  agencies, including KRA and NTSA, to help piece together details on the recovered vehicles. “We want to know the source of the assets and the businessman along with other suspects will be charged in court with various offenses,” said Ipara.