Taita Taveta Senator Jones Mwaruma and other elected leaders in the county have withdrawn their support for the dissolution of the county government and called for dialogue instead. Governor Granton Samboja has petitioned for the dissolution of the county after a disagreement with the County Assembly over the county’s budget. In what seems to be a quick turn of events, the senator, flanked by legislator Jones Mlolwa (Voi), Andrew Mwadime (Mwatate) and Danson Mwashako (Wundanyi), asked Samboja to drop his hard stance and accept dialogue. Initially, the four legislators were backing a petition by Samboja to dissolve the county government while Woman Representative Lydia Haika and Taveta MP Naomi Shabaan have been rooting for dialogue. The decision to root for reconciliation was arrived at in a Saturday night closed-door meeting chaired by Taita Taveta Anglican Church of Kenya Bishop Liverson Mng’onda. Mwaruma further revealed that a mediation committee constituting of the clergy, elders, leaders, and other stakeholders will be announced on Monday. “We are in agreement with the ACK bishop that dialogue should be given a chance before we think of any other thing. Starting this Monday, I will start talks with the bishop on how we can form a mediation committee as soon as possible,” Mwaruma told journalists in Voi. He said the standoff had negatively affected operations in the county, noting that dissolution is not a solution and will not solve the problems facing the government. “This petition is derailing service delivery in education, health and other important sectors that required rigorous collaboration between the two arms. Until we dialogue and solve our problems as a county, dissolution cannot solve them,” he added. Last month, Samboja received a compilation of 52,100 signatures collected across the county petitioning President Uhuru Kenyatta to dissolve the devolved unit. The county boss fell out with MCAs after he failed to assent to the Sh5.6 billion budget for 2019/2020 financial year. At the centre of the dispute is a sum of Sh833 million that the MCAs allocated themselves through the Ward Development Fund. An earlier attempt to end the standoff failed after the governor declined to dialogue with MCAs citing claims that those pushing for mediation were not sincere and that they only wanted to settle political scores through a shouting match. "Let us top chest-thumping and wait for fresh elections. I am happy that some MCAs have signed the petition and this gives it more weight, dissolution is inevitable," Samboja said then. Bishop Mng’onda whoever asked all the leaders to shun divisive politics and unite residents. He said he will reach out to Shabaan and Haika who were not part of the meeting to include them in the conciliation team. “Let us all sober up and solve our own problems. The solution squarely lies within our county leaders. We have decided to move together is seeking a lasting solution,” the bishop said. Earlier, former governor John Mruttu led other former leaders including Ex-Wundanyi MP Thomas Mwadeghu, former Mwatate MP Calist Mwatela, former woman representative Joyce Lay and Voi businessman Khamisi Chome in calling for dialogue to end the stalemate. Mruttu stated that the petition to dissolve the county was not a well thought idea and that dialogue should be given a chance first. “We cannot rush to terminate what we have built in close to eight year because of simple disagreement. Every leader should rise above selfishness and work towards making the lives of our people better,” said Mruttu. Lay said residents were duped into signing the petition pointing out that it lacks the basics for dissolution. She asked the governor to drop the petition and instead reconcile with the warring MCAs.