Deputy President William Ruto has urged  Taita Taveta leaders to engage in dialogue over the three-month budget impasse that has threatened county operations. The DP termed a dissolution petition by Governor Granton Samboja as petty, urging leaders to find a lasting solution. “That is a bad joke and we shall not entertain such petty things emanating from disagreements that can be solved within,” Ruto said. He was speaking during a rally in Kasighau, Voi subcounty, on Monday. The DP held talks with 30 MCAs led by Speaker Meshack Maganga. Wundanyi MP Danson Mwashako and Woman Representative Lydia Haika also attended the meeting at Sarova Taita Hills Game Lodge. Ruto urged Samboja to drop his dissolution petition, saying the national government will protect devolution. “The problems of Taita Taveta can only be solved through dialogue. It's a joke to think that such a great county lacks brains to bring a solution. Tell those pushing for dissolution that the next election is three years away,” he said. Ruto cautioned the governor, MCAs and other elected leaders that they will be "whipped out"  in the next election if they fail to solve problems facing residents. Governor Samboja skipped Ruto's two-day visit to the county R the end of his coastal tour. Samboja fell out with MCAs after he failed to ascent to the Sh5.6 billion budget for this financial year. The demanded Sh830 million for themselves for use in their constituencies without any monitoring. The governor refused. Neither side has He has since then collected 52,100 signatures across the county to petition President Uhuru Kenyatta to dissolve the devolved unit. A mediation team led by Taita Taveta ACK Bishop Liverson Mng’onda is expected to lead talks between the two warring sides. Haika faulted constitutional amendment proposals fronted by leaders who support the Building Bridges Initiative saying they are only interested in creating political seats. She said any referendum should focus on poverty eradication and strengthening women in leadership. “Any constitutional amendment should first factor in how to deal with poverty, enhance governance and better the lives of common Kenyans. If it is only meant for few individuals to benefit then we should unanimously reject it,” the woman MP said. Edited by R.Wamochie