President Uhuru Kenyatta has effected changes in his administration and reshuffled seven principal secretaries. In a statement from the President's Strategic Communications Unit, Uhuru moved PS Gordon Kihalangwa from the State Department of Defence to the Public Works docket. It is barely 14 days since the President moved Kihalangwa from the Department of Immigration to Defence. Kihalangwa's position at the Defence ministry will be taken over by Ibrahim Mohamed, who has been moved from the Environment and Forestry portfolio. At the same time, Betty Maina has been transferred from the State Department of Industrialisation to take charge of the State Department of Environment and Forestry. Francis Owino, who has been the PS for State Department of Public Service, has been named the new Industrialisation PS. PS Julius Korir who has been at the State Department for Infrastructure now moves to the State Department of Public Service. Public Works PS Paul Maringa has been moved to the State Department of Infrastructure. Fred Segor, whose future was left hanging in the August 24 reshuffle after a new PS was named at his then-State Department of Irrigation, has been appointed the new Wildlife Service PS. Uhuru has also given an executive order merging the State Department of Crop Development with the State Department of Agricultural Research to create the State Department of Crop Development and Agricultural Research. PS Hamadi Boga has been moved from the State Department of Agricultural Research to State Department of Crop Development and Agricultural Research. According to the statement signed by State House Spokesperson Kanze Dena-Mararo, the changes are aimed at “enhancing efficiency and service delivery”. This is the second executive order being issued by the President for the reorganisation of government in less than a month. It is seen as a strategy to punish lazy officers. Last month, Uhuru moved the lucrative Irrigation department from the Ministry of Agriculture to the Water and Sanitation docket. He also handed Interior PS Karanja Kibicho the Immigration docket. (Edited by F'Orieny)