Punguza Mizigo is one of the key bills awaiting the Nairobi county assembly as it resumes sittings on Tuesday. The MCAs have been on a one-month recess after the house adjourned on August 8. Other bills on their include the Nairobi City County Community Health Bill, 2019, the Nairobi City County Finance Bill, 2019, and the Nairobi City County Revenue Bill, 2019. The assembly will have to dispense with them in the next three weeks. Majority leader Abdi Guyo (Matopeni) on Sunday said Third Way Alliance leader Ekuru Aukot's bill will be prioritised. "We have a number of bills which are at different stages and the house will advance them so they can be passed and assented to," Guyo said. On August 13, the Human Rights and Constitutional Division of the High Court in Nairobi lifted an order barring county assemblies from debating the bill. It proposes amendments to the Constitution. Nyeri and Siaya assemblies have rejected the bill while Uasin Gishu passed it. All eyes will now be on the capital city. "The first agenda in the house will be to discuss the Punguza Mizigo Bill, which was tabled on July 30, 2019," Guyo said. "Just like the assemblies in other counties, members will debate it on the floor and the house will either pass or reject the bill." His Minority counterpart Elias Otieno said they will reject the bill. "We shall start with the Punguza Mizigo Bill and I think we are going to reject it officially in the assembly," he said. ODM MCAs said the bill was dead on arrival. They said their party leader Raila Odinga had already dismissed it, hence no point of them debating it. Third Way Alliance leader Ekuru Aukot went to the county assembly last month to drum up support for his brainchild. The Majority leader, however, declined to speak on behalf of Jubilee MCAs. He said everyone was entitled to his or her views and that will be heard during debate. Guyo said the house will pick up from where it left with pending motions, statements and reports from committees. According to the statement tracker, there are 50 pending statements to be responded to when the house resumes. The house will focus on the budget process given that they now know the amount they will be allocated in devolved revenue. "We now have the final figure that counties will be allocated as county revenue so the house, especially the budget committee will have their hands full so we can pass the 2019-20 budget," Guyo said. In February when the house resumed for its third session, it came with an increased workload. They vetted Governor Mike Sonko’s five nominees for executive positions, passed the sessional paper of the Urban Housing Renewal and Regeneration Policy and vetted the members of the Nairobi County Public Service Board. The MCAs also considered two key policy documents on the Nairobi City County Water and Sanitation Policy. (Edited by F'Orieny)