Great Lakes region member states have been urged to improve the business environment to attract foreign direct investments and create quality jobs. The Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry president Richard Ngatia asked regional governments to work more closely with the private sector to alleviate some of the difficulties that they face. Ngatia spoke yesterday during the 2019 General Assembly of the Great Lakes Region Private Sector Forum held in Nairobi. The meeting which sought to among other things conduct an election of the Executive Committee of the Great Lakes Regional Private Sector Forum saw Ngatia elected as the chairperson. It brought together representatives from more than 10 GLR member states. “We should not allow ourselves to be mainly the consumers of foreign goods and expertise but must build our capacities to produce goods and services for ourselves and for export to improve our global competitiveness,” Ngatia said. The KNCCI president noted that there is need for member states to improve regional infrastructure and strengthen economic connectivity and make full use of the close to 400 million people in the region as a domestic market. “Our priority should be to grow intra-regional trade and create opportunities for the many SMEs in the region to grow their businesses and be part of the regional and global value chains,” he said. He also reiterated the need to adopt fast to the technological transformation being experienced worldwide. This means the nations and governments must re-evaluate how the manufacturing industry agenda speaks to the contribution to economic growth, he noted. He called on the region to  focus on building the foundation to facilitate manufacturing and industrial development to advance to the next frontier and raise its economic wellbeing. “Despite new frontier challenges that we are facing, we must also be alert and firm with fundamentals such as good governance and ethics particularly in the fight against corruption, without which, the cost of doing business in our region will escalate and will undermine our economies regardless of all the latest mega trends that we successfully embrace.” Besides reducing barriers to trade, investments and services, Ngatia said there is also need to pay closer attention to improving regional connectivity including air and water transport, e-commerce, telecommunication and financial integration. The International Conference on The Great Lakes Region Executive Secretary Zachary Mwita identified unemployment, slow economic growth and uneven prosperity as the major problems facing the entire region. "These had been identified by our Heads of State as serious crises requiring sustained and collective action,” Mwita said. 