Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka told the government on Tuesday to stop meddling in affairs of the Kenya National Union of Teachers and other trade unions. The former Vice President said the government should respect the rights of workers and court orders issued in their favour to expand the democratic space and ensure that they enjoy good working terms. “The current impasse between the Teachers Service Commission and Knut, which basically revolves around the welfare of teachers, can be amicably solved through mediation — of course, with due regard to the ruling of the employer and the Labour Relations Court regarding the issues in contention,” Kalonzo said. "I am ready to mediate talks between the TSC and Knut. And I add, let us respect trade unions," the Wiper boss said. Kalonzo spoke during the opening the Organisation of African Trade Union Unity meeting in Nairobi. He said the role of the government is to support the growth of trade unions and an ample environment for businesses, which are the stakeholders in economic growth. “The government should stop interfering with trade unions and allow them to serve Kenyans better,” Kalonzo said. He was responding to what he called emerging factions that seek to weaken trade unions. The five-day event organised by the Central Organisation of Trade Unions brings together unionists from across Africa. “Our role as leaders is to push for stability and growth. For instance, we came together under the political handshake to fight corruption and address other issues affecting the country,” he said. Kalonzo asked the government to work with trade unions to avoid excessive combativeness and brinkmanship "that is inimical to the well being of workers and authorities". He said there's a close relationship between trade unions and democracy and the right to choose representatives at the workplace is a fundamental human right. “Every employee, whether unionised or not, is entitled to the right of representation at his or her workplace,” Kalonzo said. Among the issues trade unions are supposed to protect include better pay, maternity and paternity leave as well as medical care. “What I imagine is a situation whereby trade union leadership strives to operate in a harmonious relationship with employers for the mutual benefit of both workers and investors,” Kalonzo said.