The family of Nicholas Biwott has failed to stop an Eldoret businessman from demanding repayment of Sh382 million he had loaned the former minister. Biwott died on July 11, 2017, and the businessman wants the executors of his estate to pay up. Barnabas arap Kiprono, popularly known as Lodwar, on February 28 sued three executors of Biwott’s will, claiming the money had accrued interest of about Sh6.3 million. The executors of Biwott’s will listed in the suit include lawyer Desterio Oyatsi, Kennedy Keith and Elizabeth Klem. Kiprono, a prominent real estate proprietor in Eldoret, sued in respect of contracts between him and Biwott, which were signed between November 2015 and September 2016. Justice Olga Sewe on Monday dismissed an application by the Biwott family seeking to terminate Kiprono’s case. “The plaintiff’s cause of action is that the deceased utterly and blatantly acted in breach of the terms of the contracts by failing, refusing or otherwise neglecting to fulfil his obligations imposed upon him by the said legal contracts," Kiprono said in his suit filed through lawyer Karen Chesoo. Kiprono also wanted the High Court to issue an interim preservatory order, preventing the estate of the deceased from being interfered with in any way, especially pieces of land listed in the suit. The parcels of land that Kiprono wants preserved include land reference No 1/809 (Original No 1/37/4), land reference No 27815, land reference No 8125, Eldoret Municipality Block 4/2, Eldoret Municipality Block 7/41 and Kilifi/Jimba/362. Others are Chembe/Kibambashe/377, Subdivision 167 Section VI Mainland North, Keiyo/Upper Cheptebo “A”/1, Mosop/Kaptarakwa/ 472 and Mosop 6 (KUTSI) /1. Kiprono wanted the court to issue the orders, arguing that the executors had filed for summons for confirmation of grant of probate of the deceased's will with the intention of distributing the assets to beneficiaries. He said should the process proceed, he would be exposed to irreparable loss and damage. The three executors of Biwott's will, however, filed a response through lawyer John  Wananda asking Justice Sewe to dismiss the case filed by Kiprono. They first argued that the court had no jurisdiction to grant orders sought by Kiprono. They also argued against orders on the listed property noting that Kiprono’s application was misconceived because his claim was for money allegedly lent to Biwott and not for any proprietary rights on the listed parcels of land. Oyatsi also filed a further affidavit in court conceding that the grant of probate to administer Biwott’s estate had been issued to them as executors, but the court did not have jurisdiction to issue orders sought by Kiprono. But Justice Sewe ruled that the case involved a colossal sum of money. She said the case filed by Kiprono requires hearing and determination on the merits. The court will therefore proceed to hear Kiprono’s case on the demand to be paid the Sh382 million. On the application for an injunction on Biwott’s assets, Justice Sewe said the court had powers to handle applications for injunctions in such cases as sought by Kiprono, but in relation to matters of succession where the court excises its jurisdiction as a Probate and Administration Court. She ruled that the application for preservatory orders sought by Kiprono on the listed property should be made in the succession case on Biwott’s estate, which is being handled at the High Court in Nairobi. Kiprono’s lawyers have filed a report from document examiners which confirmed Biwott’s signatures on contracts for the money lent to him.