Six out of the 25 road projects initiated in the financial year 2016-2017 in Nairobi  are yet to start, 19 months later. A report by the Nairobi County Assembly Public Accounts Committee (PAC) reveals that the six roads are worth more than Sh 265 million. In total, the 25 road projects are worth Sh 1.3 billion. This has put the county’s Transport and Public Works department on the spot over slow rate of implementation of projects, with most failing to kick off as others stall. This is despite the contractors being paid millions of shillings. The report further reveals that out of the 19 projects that have already started, only four, which are valued at Sh69 million, had been certified for payment. Some of the projects have been in implementation for more than three years and with no certain date of completion. The report, which was adopted by the assembly last month, further states that the quality of construction works was extremely poor and some contractors had abandoned the sites only to resurface before the committee’s visit this year. “Some of the companies contracted to construct or rehabilitate roads within the county lack financial and technical capacity to deliver,” reads the report. The committee, chaired by Mabatini Ward MCA Wilfred Odalo, called for the blacklisting of one contractor M/S Elite ITS Limited. The company is responsible for the rehabilitation of Academy Road in Karen and construction of Plains View Likoni link road in South B Ward. The two projects were awarded in December, 2016 at a combined cost of more than Sh269 million. The contractor has been paid over Sh95 million despite the poor situation of the projects. The link road is only 40 pervcent complete with the completion date being June 30, 2019, after an extension of more than 15 months while the rehabilitation of Academy Road is only 65 percent ready while the completion date was June 6, 2019. Grading of Madoya Road in Huruma, awarded to M/S Solid Waste Collectors in December, 2016 at Sh4.9 million is only 15 per cent complete almost a year after the set date. The report also highlights that a number of roads to be done by several contractors are incomplete.