The drought ravaging Wajir could hurt learners’ performance in this year’s national exams — KCPE and KCSE. In the wake of the growing concern, Wajir East MP Rashid Kassim says the dry spell has had grave repercussions on residents and their livestock, and schools are no better. He said hundreds of schoolchildren, especially day scholars and those whose parents largely rely on livestock as their economic mainstay, are grappling with hunger and have to go to school on empty stomachs. The lawmaker spoke in Kharsa on Wednesday when he flagged off a hunger safety net programme, which is supported by the government through the National Drought Management Authority, the UK’s Department for International Development and the World Bank in partnership with Save the Children. The drive targets the worst-hit families in the constituency. Kassim said the food provided for schools through a feeding programme is too little to sustain their huge populations. “We’ve all along been talking of the biting drought and famine that is ravaging our people. But we forget how the situation is affecting our children. Parents have been forced to move with their families and animal kilometres away in search of water and livestock. The end result is that the performance of our children will definitely be affected,” he said. Kassim said the situation is made worse by the limited number of boarding schools. In view of the suffering, some parents move with their animals far and wide in search of water and pasture and have had to take their children to relatives in towns so they can prepare well for the national exams, he said. “How do you expect a child who has not been in class throughout and has not had the privilege of being taught by teachers like his or her fellow candidates to compete with them? It’s difficult. Going forward, the government needs to critically look at this issue and come up with long-lasting solutions,” Kassim said. A teacher at Khara Primary said they have 30 KCPE candidates but only 15 have been attending lessons. “The other 15 have not reported this term. We don’t know where they are. But we suspect they moved with their parents in search of water and pasture for their animals. We can only hope and pray that wherever they are they are studying because they’ll have to come back and sit KCPE exam,” he said on condition of anonymity. The situation is replicated in most day primary and secondary schools where not a single class is filled to capacity. Kassim urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to declare the drought a national disaster to trigger the release of the Sh4 billion contingency fund, which he wants used to truck water, offer medical care and buy food for victims. Save the Children county coordinator Abdiyoo Omar said they are focusing on the nutritional state of children and mothers who have been worst hit. The September drought status report released on Monday says the situation has worsened in Mandera, Wajir, Garissa, Kajiado, Kwale, Isiolo, Makueni and Kitui. The situation has, however, improved in Samburu, Nyeri (Kieni), Lamu and Baringo. Meru North, Narok, Taita Taveta, Turkana, West Pokot, Tana River, Laikipia, Embu (Mbeere), Kilifi, Marsabit and Tharaka Nithi have recorded a stable trend. The bulletin showed that August was generally a dry month, particularly in Marsabit, Garissa, Mandera, Wajir, Tana River, Tharaka, Kitui, Makueni and Kajiado counties. It says nearly all arid and semi-arid counties are sunny and dry this month. The National Drought Management Authority said water sources and that stored will be depleted following poor short rain. (Edited by F'Orieny)