Parliament has been accused of discrimination by sitting on the pension perks of former lawmakers. The ex-MPs say they continue to live in squalor years after two tribunals recommended that they should be considered for monthly stipends. They cited the 2002 Cockar tribunal and the 2009 Akilano Akiwumi tribunal, which advised that they should be paid pension. Parliament, they said, was selectively implementing sections of recommendation touching on parliamentary staff and serving MPs, turning a blind eye on sections dealing with the welfare of former legislators. The Former Parliamentarians Association of Kenya (FOPAK), through Otieno Mak’Onyango (ex-Alego Usonga MP), wants Parliament to include their suffering during deliberations on the Parliamentary Pensions (Amendment) Bill, 2019. The Akiwumi report recommended enhanced pension, by way of improved terms and conditions of service for the MPs and parliamentary staff as well as Sh100,000 monthly pension for former lawmakers who served from 1984. The Cockar team recommended that retired leaders who served from 1963 to 1983 be accorded Sh1 million ex-gratia. The team advised that those who served after 1984 – following the enactment of the Parliamentary Pensions Act – get pension. The ex-MPs were giving their position on Parliamentary (Amendment) Pensions Bill sponsored by minority leader John Mbadi. In the Mbadi’s proposal MPs who retired between 1984 and 2001, will each get enhanced pension of a minimum Sh100,000 per month for life. In 2016, FOPAK petitioned Parliament to implement the enhanced pension as per the two tribunal’s reports. According to Mak'Onyango, Parliament discriminated against them and instead effected the recommendations touching on serving MPs and parliamentary staff. “Both Parliamentary Service Commission and Parliament, respectively, approved and adopted the Akiwumi Tribunal recommendations in June 2010 and October 2010,” Mak’Onyango told MPs. He urged the MPs to consider backdating the perks to July 1, 2010. “Having served their motherland in the unique position of legislators and national leaders, many of the former MPs are, on retirement, deprived of all means of livelihood. They become destitute and live in deplorable and pathetic conditions,” he said yesterday in a statement. Mak’Onyango was accompanied by former legislators Joseph Lotodo (Baringo East), Saulo Bosolo (Webuye), Immanuel Imana (Turkana Central), Francis Mutuol (Marakwet West), John Marimoi (Marakwet East) and Aloo Ogeka (Muhoroni). The former MPs narrated their difficult lives. “After you leave Parliament you are unemployable. Life has been very rough, the Sh7,000 pension I am getting per month is nothing,” Busolo said. “Despite having served for two terms I am not getting any pension. It is time the current Parliament considers our welfare as was recommended by the two reports,” Mutuol said.    