Is an MP from the Coast region who has been critical of Mombasa Governor Ali Joho’s leadership a marked man? This could be the case if what three legislators, familiar with Mombasa politics, were overheard saying in Parliament is anything to go by. The lawmakers, who were in deep discussion last week, said that some politicians and businessmen in the city have identified a youthful contender to take on the MP in 2022. Some of the businessmen bankrolled his campaigns in 2017. They have resorted to their new plans after claiming the MP has not lived up to their expectation and should be dislodged. A nominated Jubilee MCA has set tongues wagging. Reason? The MCA has been bragging to colleagues that she is guaranteed nomination in 2022. She recently told her fellow MCAs who questioned her long absence from the chamber that she knows ‘who is who’ in the party and that she does not need to always be in the chamber to be nominated again. She has appeared in the chamber only a few times. An MP from a county in Nyanza was recently embarrassed in a high-end hotel in Mombasa. The vocal legislator had arrived in the hotel with a woman believed to be his girl friend at about 9pm. As they were serving themselves a meal, the MP noticed the presence of journalists from his county. The journalists were also having a meal. They were in the hotel for a devolution workshop. Disturbed by the journalists' presence, the legislator walked on to their table and pleaded with them not to expose him in the Corridors of Power. In exchange, the man offered to foot the journalists’ bill for drinks of their choice. Are some Nairobi workers celebrating Governor Mike Sonko’s woes? Last week, some senior officers were overheard discussing and laughing loudly outside City Hall. They claim the flamboyant county chief, who is under investigations by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission, has always bashed, sacked and suspended officers who he claimed are part of the corrupt cartels that have drained the county’s resources.  