A fire safety and burns awareness campaign by the disaster and coordination sector and other partners kicked off yesterday. The campaign will provide basic information to people at all levels on preparedness, prevention, reduction and response to fire incidents. On Monday stakeholders launched the Kenya Fire Safety Manual (2019) at Kenyatta National Hospital in preparation for the campaigns. The manual was prepared by the Fire Safety Burns Awareness Forum. Chief officer for disaster management and coordination Anne Mwenda said that the awareness campaign is meant to sensitise the public especially those living in the informal settlements. The campaign will provide a platform for the county and the public to engage in discussions about disaster management and coordination. The disaster and coordination sector will work together with Kenya Power, National Police Service, The Burn Society of Kenya, Kenyatta National Hospital among others in the campaign. Mwenda said that some disasters occur because of lack of preparedness and this project will focus on disaster management, preparedness, response, mitigation and recovery. "We have noted that most of the fire incidents are as a result of human error, hence as a county, we want to emphasise on prevention," Mwenda said. Fires are among the most common disasters experienced in Nairobi, especially in the informal settlements and markets. Mwendwa said that most fire cases in residential homes can be prevented if people are aware of the preventative measures. "The campaign will help reach out to people and take them through what is required to happen when a fire incident occurs and prevent it from spreading,” she said. She said having the firefighting and prevention skills are important in helping to reduce loss of property and human lives. Nairobi has only 120 trained firefighters, 11 of whom are set to retire at the end of the year and 13 in 2020. In May, the Nairobi disaster management department received Sh200 million from the United Kingdom to revamp its quick response strategies. The funds were for the Hub project, a multi-hazard urban risk transition plan aimed at improving disaster knowledge, management and response. Nairobi is one of four cities in the world to get a share of the funds in the next five years besides being Africa's representative of the network. The others are Kathmandu in Nepal, Quito in Ecuador and Istanbul in Turkey. The county is currently reviewing the Nairobi County Disaster Management Act 2015 and also developing both the disaster management plan and policy. 