Sports Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohammed has once again reiterated the government commitment in hosting a successful World U-20 Athletics Championships in Nairobi next year. The ministry in collaboration with Athletics Kenya and other stakeholders are gearing towards the championships slated for July at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani. Amina, who was flanked by the Kenyan ambassador to Qatar Paddy Ahenda and visited the Kenyan team at their residential hotel here in Doha, said she is pleased with the strides made by the steering committee and exuded confidence improving the standard from the 2017 World Under 18 show. “The world has never been afraid of visiting Nairobi and we are looking forward to the championships. We had the U-18 in an amazing way and I think we will not encounter problems in this one. We are working hard to have a successful event and I am happy we are where we are supposed to be as far as preparations are concerned.” Amina, who showered the Kenyan team with praises following a glamorous start in the championship, urged the team to maintain the winning touch as well as reduce the gap between them and the United States of America. By yesterday, Kenya had harvested two medals through Ruth Chepngetich (women marathon gold ) and Agnes Tirop ( women’s 10000m bronze). “When it comes to the world, we are always compared to the US and I urge the team to try and narrow the gap. I am elated with the start and happy for Chepngetich who ensured that the Kenyan anthem was sang ahead of the rest.” At the same time, Athletics Kenya President Jackson Tuwei disclosed the plans are in place for the World U-20 show. He said they had send five delegates to Tampere, Finland during last year’s World U-20 championships with two flying to Yokohama early this year and ten are in Qatar to benchmark. “We are aware the next visit by IAAF is barely one and half months away. We are putting our best foot forward to ensure all preparations fall in as planned. We know after Doha the focus will be on Nairobi.” 