Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria has thrown his weight behind ODM candidate Benson Musungi for coming Kibra by-election. Musungu is among the 11 ODM aspirants for the by-election. The Orange party is set to conduct its nominations this Saturday after postponing it over lack of security for the function as they were focused on the census. In a Facebook post, Kuria said he supported  Musungu as he was born in Kibra comparing him to the late MP Ken Okoth who was born in the area too. He said that a leader born in Kibra understands the plight of the residents best hence having a deep passion to uplift the lives of the people. "My late friend Ken Okoth was born in Kibra hence his deep passion to uplift the lives of Kibra people. The person I vouch for to take forward from where Ken left is another Born in Kibra, Benson Musungu," Kuria said. The outspoken Jubilee legislator said that Kibra is a centre of political tourism and slum tourism is making the constituency sink in poverty. "I have challenged my friend Ronnie Osumba to create a Born in Kibra (BIK) movement to bring together people who manage to break off from the challenges of Kibra and make it in life to go back and help lift Kibra from the yoke of poverty," he said. His sentiments come two days after former  Harambee Stars international McDonald Mariga was chosen to fly Jubilee Party's flag in the Kibra by-election to be held on November 7. Mariga, however, is perceived to be Deputy President William Ruto's candidate in the by-election despite the ex-international footballer dismissing this claim on Monday after Jubilee Party vetting. Kuria in a tweet on Monday asked Ruto to let Mariga continue playing football and uplifting talents rather than endorsing him to what he called the dirty game of politics. "Let Macdonald Mariga spend time to grow our football and our talents. Siasa itakuwepo leo, kesho na mtondogoo. Ruto let the young man be. He will live to join this silly, dirty game of politics another day(politics will be there today,tommorow and the days to come," he said. The footballer said he made the decision to try his hand in politics after thorough soul-searching and consultation with his family. Mariga will battle it out with candidates from ODM, ANC, and Ford Kenya during the by-election on November 7. “That's my decision and I'm not being pushed by anyone. There is no influence. I decided, together with the family, that I try it,” he said. ANC announced Eliud Owalo as its candidate. The campaign period for the by-election will run from September 9 to November 4. Kibra constituency seat fell vacant after the death of Ken Okoth on July 26 who battled with cancer.