A former senior Football Kenya Federation official found himself in hot soup after he declared his support for McDonald Mariga in the upcoming by-election in Kibra. Residents of Kibra tore into the official on various social media platforms, telling him to stick to matters relating to football in his comments. The question they asked was whether the former official declared his support for Mariga just because the Kibra parliamentary candidate played top-flight football in some of the world’s top leagues or if he took the position in view of the fact that the Jubilee party hopeful is equal to the task. Residents of Embakasi West constituency are feeling let down and abandoned by their MP George Theuri. The constituents just learnt that the MP has moved from Umoja estate and is now residing in Mlolongo in Mavoko constituency. One resident told Corridors of Power that one reason the MP got votes from them was the fact that he lived among them and they believed he would, therefore, understand their problems better. He said even before the MP left for a better neighbourhood, the roads were in terrible condition, the taps were dry almost all the time and raw sewage was flowing freely all over. But now that he is gone, the residents are wondering how their MP would have a first-hand experience of their problems. Just who are the figures behind a firm that released poll results allegedly ranking governors? Well. While the real faces did not show up at at the release of the results at a Nairobi hotel, it has emerged that some of the men seen yesterday at the conference could have been seen with one of the governors over the weekend. Corridors of power is informed that the county chief held a meeting with the alleged pollsters at a top city hotel over the weekend. It is not clear what the agenda of the meeting was, but coming hot on the heels of the release of the report, many are wondering if it has anything to do with the polls. It is rare for pollsters to meet subjects of their survey especially when it is not commissioned by the same people. Top officials of a county in western Kenya have become the talk of town given their recent appetite for land in a prime part within the lakeside city. The officials are said to have bought land and houses in one part of the city in cash, something that does not reconcile with their known basic income. Most of the purchases are said to have been done in cash and property registered in the names of close family members. At first, the prime properties were registered on their names but were hurriedly transferred to family members'names after EACC detectives started narrowing on the county which is known for runaway corruption in almost it's sectors.