Former multiple open class champion Shivam Vinayak has announced his motocross comeback after years of exemplary performance in off-road Rally Raids and Enduros. Vinayak, now a dentist, says he will retain his current off-road machine, which he will ride alongside his new KTM 350 SX-f in selected races. “Next season, I plan to return to motocross. I have a new bike which is expected here in a week’s time and can’t wait to start training at the Jamhuri Park circuit. He revealed that he will also be doing the rally raids and the hill climbs on the old bike. “My new bike is coming from South Africa and should be an exciting ride, thanks to Bike Tyres Kenya for enabling me to secure it. The old  2019 KTM 350 will now be for selected events,” he said, adding: “Testing will be done locally  with the help of Off-road Adventure East Africa.” Vinayak, who is a former Kenya Motor Sports Personality of the Year, said his motocross return is informed by his burning ambition to boost Team Kenya fortunes in continental and regional FIM Africa events. Vinayak also hopes to whip up the enthusiasm of the next generation of senior riders in the sport. “It’s always a great pleasure representing the country in motocross. Sadly, the senior category has quite not picked up well and I’m hoping to encourage more riders to take up the challenge. “Our long standing rivalry with Uganda has also added a little zest into the sport and I’m looking forward to it,” he said. Vinayak was among the competitors who participated in the Hill Climb in Naivasha over the weekend. “The Hill Climb was tricky in the early stages. We had to try and learn the track and terrain in a few heats then try put down one quick time. It was a little rocky which it very challenging on a bike. The event is always fun because you are competing with everyone to get a better time. Day 1 was about saving seconds, Day 2 looking for half seconds." “Organisation was excellent and the electronic timing system worked really well with live timing updates,” Vinayak said.