The National Treasury has suffered a big blow in its bid to raise billions in additional taxes after MPs rejected some of the tax measures proposed by ex-CS Henry Rotich. The tax measures would have affected web-based vendors, lawyers, and professional cleaners. Banks were also dealt a blow in their bid to remove the interest rate cap, a move which MPs rejected saying their claim the caps frustrate the growth of banks has been proven otherwise. MPs rejected the tax proposals in their report on the Finance Bill, 2019, which was debated by the House on Wednesday to pave way for the charge on the proposed levies by September 30. Lawmakers backed Kenya Professional Cleaners Association in opposing the proposed five per cent withholding tax on fees for cleaning and fumigation services. The lawmakers said that the tax risks occasioning high levels of unemployment since an extra tax burden would occasion a cash flow crisis for the entities and increased costs,  causing loss of business. Equally saved are entrepreneurs dealing in security services, catering services offered outside hotel premises, transportation of goods (excluding air transport services), sales promotion, marketing and advertising services. Also hampered is an effort by the Treasury to compel lawyers to report to authorities the amount of money they handle on behalf of their clients. LSK raised concerns that the measures amounted to a breach of advocate-client relationship or professional privilege applicable to lawyers. Proj Tom Ojienda, a former member of the Judicial Service Commission, also opposed the proposal saying the Proceeds of Crime and Anti-Money Laundering Act already recognizes the privilege. “Based on the above concerns, the committee resolved to reject the proposed amendment to allow the introduction of an amendment to POCALMA and not through miscellaneous amendments,” the report by Finance committee chair Joseph Limo reads. For the banks, Treasury in the bill pushed by Henry Rotich, before he was hounded office, sought to repeal the interest rate caps. Labour CS Ukur Yatani took over in an acting capacity. Banks added their voice saying the repeal of the law would not disadvantage the existing borrowers that have the benefit of a good track record. “Credit to SMEs has not been due to the capping of interest but to government increased domestic borrowing,” Limo’s team said, adding that they would support amendments to the Banking Act to avoid nullification of the law. The High Court directed banks and Parliament to agree on how to deal with their row on the rate caps within a year. For digital marketplaces, Treasury has sought to tax incomes accruing through the web platforms. On this, the committee has called for discussions to define the complex digital marketplace and the tax jurisdiction. The question is whether to charge the tax on the basis of where the platform is registered or where the person transacting is situated. “If implemented, there was a risk of negative perception on investors and entrepreneurs and could erode transition to cashless transactions. The imposition of this tax is likely to lead to job losses for the youth, hence may not achieve the much needed revenue.” But MPs put a fight to have the lawyers’ disclose their client’s money to authorities in the event they suspect that the monies are illegitimate. However, Speaker Justin Muturi said he would give a ruling on whether the lawmakers can debate on the clause introducing the matter. On the flip side, the Treasury is likely to raise Sh4.6 billion in excise duty on tobacco and alcoholic products which MPs approved. They held that taxation of tobacco products is considered low compared to the commitment made on the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control which Kenya ratified. Betting firms may suffer more taxation after MPs backed was a 10 per cent excise duty charged to amounts staked by players at the time of placing a bet on a platform. Treasury estimates to raise Sh19.7 billion in the tax measure which the association of gaming operators said would be better charged on a higher betting tax. MPs concluded that betting tax and excise duties were meant to address different issues hence it was impossible to treat the taxes as the same. “In order to deal with the negative externalities related to betting, the tax chargeable is excise duty,” the lawmakers said. On this basis, cigars, cheroots, cigarillos containing tobacco or substitutes will attract excise of Sh12,624 per kilo. Electronic cigarettes will attract an excise duty of Sh3,787 per unit whereas cartridges would be charged duty of Sh2,525 per unit. Cigarettes with filters would be charged a duty of Sh3,157 per mille while those without filters would attract a duty of Sh2,272 per mille. Consumers of sugar confectionary will be charged duty of Sh20 per kilo while imported white chocolates in blocs, slabs or bars would attract an excise duty of Sh200 per kilo. To discourage importation of gas cylinders in order to bolster local industries, MPs have backed the introduction of 35 per cent duty on the said products. Banks or individuals in the sector who violate the interest rate caps law would be liable for one year in jail or a charge of Sh1 million in fines. There is a proposal requiring small scale traders to register associations to allow them to consolidate cargo to ease clearance of goods at the entry ports.