It is no secret that, because of the injury to Aymeric Laporte, who was stretchered off in the match against Brighton and Hove Albion last weekend, manager Pep Guardiola has a defence problem. I can tell you that he went to his board of directors during summer and told them he needed to strengthen defensively with new signings. He was told it wasn’t the time and money would be made available in the future. It is ironic that Pep’s request and the refusal has come home to haunt City. Laporte’s injury is still being assessed in Barcelona as I write this column, however, City have also lost the services of John Stones who injured a thigh against West Ham on the opening day of the season. Vincent Kompany has gone and Nicolas Otamendi almost left the club at the end of last season and his frame of mind is questionable. Guardiola hasn’t complained about not being allowed to bring in fresh players and admits they have previously spent large amounts of money. The fact that Guardiola wanted Harry Maguire as the centre of his defence but was told he was too expensive, tells me that he does not completely trust either Stones or Otamendi. Step forward Fernandinho who has been practising centre back positions for the past two weeks in training. He is confident he can fill the hole caused by Laporte’s injury. He said this week, “Laporte came off the pitch and John Stones was injured so I was the only one left on the bench. I can do it and played there twice last season.” The other option for Guardiola is to move right-back Kyle Walker across to play with Stones when he is fit and also Otamendi with new recruit Joao Cancelo starting at right-back. Normally I would say that Pep has nothing to worry about with the quality of players at his disposal but Liverpool have come out of the starting blocks at full speed and City cannot allow them to get even a few points ahead this season.  Lampard’s youth scheme is working Visiting the Chelsea training ground these days reminds me of visits to watch my son’s school matches on a Saturday. So many of the players look like they should be on work experience! Mason Mount, Tammy Abraham and now little Billy Gilmore have all been blooded in the full Chelsea team and Frank Lampard’s belief in youth is paying off. Lampard has played a clever game because he knew he could not keep sending out the same team that his predecessor Maurizio Sarri used despite finishing in the top four last season. Kicking out the older players like David Luiz and bringing in new blood is an ace card in Lampard’s deck and the boys are not letting him down. You should see training these days; it is done at 100mph with players enthusiastically rushing here there and everywhere as they seek to impress their manager after being promoted from the Academy ranks. Billy Gilmour was the latest to be introduced to the Chelsea fans and they took to him like a duck to water. Admittedly he did not come on until the 84th minute against Sheffield United but when he did, he showed some nice touches. Once the Lampard youngsters learn to work together they are going to be a strong force in the league. Rodgers improves Leicester’s midfield I have never been the biggest fan of Leicester manager Brendan Rodgers when he was at Liverpool or Celtic. However, I must admit he is doing a brilliant job at Leicester. Whereas the previous manager Claude Puel failed, Rodgers has created a balanced squad with a lot of creative quality that controls the midfield. Creativity and pushing forward also means that Jamie Vardy is getting a better service this season and instead of relying on last season’s counter-attacking tactics he is receiving balls from the creativity of Leicester’s midfield. Training is everything and Rodgers has turned the practice sessions into quick passing routines and pushing balls through to Vardy. It might seem simple, and often the real matches do not reflect the work which has been done in training but Rodgers has got things right and it is not impossible that Leicester will be looking for trophies this season. Guess who’s missing off United’s 2020 calendar… I appreciated just how much Paul Pogba wants his move to Real Madrid this week when I was given a preview of the 2020 Manchester United team calendar. Pogba is not included! Obviously some people at the club thought he would be gone by now or perhaps in January. Mind you, given that he contributed almost nothing to United’s game against Southampton last Saturday you could be forgiven for thinking he has already departed! Matip cements his claim as Van Dijk’s partner Liverpool’s Joel Matip overcame injury and the loss of his place in the Red’s defence to fight back and win the confidence of manager Jurgen Klopp. Matip is a role model for anyone who is challenged and shows perseverance. He is someone who keeps a low profile on the training field while working hard. He does not dominate after-match parties, team dinners or team bonding. He keeps himself to himself but is very popular at the club with other players and assistants. Klopp has recognised Matip’s special qualities and the Cameroonian has firmly installed himself as Virgil Van Dijk’s central defence partner. That has inspired two players, Joe Gomez and Dejan Lovren to do better but Lovren says he could look for a new club next year. Matip’s contract expires in 2021 and Liverpool recognise they need to offer him a new incentive to fend off European clubs who are likely to start making approaches in January when the new transfer window opens. Both manager Klopp and Sporting Director Michael Edwards recognise that 28-year-old Matip is now at his peak. Saints discover another special player By his own admission, Southampton’s Ralph Hasenhuttl says the Saints have never replaced Sadio Mane who left for Liverpool three years ago. Southampton are a club who discover talent, play them and then sell for a big profit. Virgil van Dijk is another prime example. Southampton do not spend big but they do have a very healthy bank account. Now it looks as though the club scouts have done it again with the summer arrival of Malian striker Moussa Djenepo. He came off the bench in the Saint’s last game and after only 78 seconds, ripped apart the Brighton defence and delivered a beautifully curved ball into the net. Since Mane left Southampton three years ago, no striker has even reached double figures during the season. At the young age of 21 and signed for a low fee of £14m, Djenepo was noticed when he played for Mali in the African Cup of Nations. He has quickly been adopted by his teammates and Ralph Hasenhuttl joked that when his newest player sang a song at the after-game hotel dinner, as part of his initiation, everyone was in fits of laughter. Hasenhuttl said, “His scoring is better than his singing!” Striker Nathan Redmond said affectionally, “I think everyone can see around the training ground how much of a fun and bubbly character he is. He’s still only young but with that ability, the fans should be excited for some of the forward play we will provide for them this year.” Let’s hope the Saints can hold on to this special talent and not be tempted to take a large transfer fee as they have done before. Tougher life for Gunners under Emery Watching Arsenal play and their training schedules it is obvious that manager Unai Emery is demanding more from his players than Arsene Wenger did. For instance, every weekday of training is carefully planned and is more energetic and physically more demanding now. The training hours are also longer. Energy and aggression are the keywords to Emery’s tactics. The manager does not let his emotions get the better of him like many others in his position. The players have to be honest and open-minded with their boss and he expects every player to know exactly what he is doing. For example, players who are able to play out from the back and into midfield and beyond have to be comfortable doing that, not given to panicking and not given to getting stuck in midfield if things go wrong. He almost expects them to be in two places at once. Emery feeds players lots of information and he expects them to mentally take this on to the field. The players are definitely having to work harder for their money than under Wenger. Emery expects players to play to their best abilities but within his strict discipline routine.