Let’s put it this way— no debutant has caused this much excitement at Barcelona since 2004 when Lionel Messi first played at the Camp Nou. Ansu Fati was given his first start by Barça coach Ernesto Valverde aged just 16 years and 318 days, and in just 111 seconds he had scored his first goal. By the six-minute mark, he had set-up, Frenkie De Jong, so becoming the youngest player ever to score and assist in the same La Liga game. In the Camp Nou crowd, the still-injured Messi grinned widely, on the pitch Barcelona team-mates clapped in admiration, while Valencia defenders panicked every time Fati touched the ball. The teenager’s rise at Barcelona has been astonishing. He debuted in August, he scored his first goal for the club – become the youngest to do so— on the last day of the same month, and now the first home goal and assist. He looks a complete player. His goal before the international break was a header. His first goal against Valencia was a right-foot shot. His cross for De Jong to make it 2-0 was left-footed. He played instinctively with his feet thinking twice as quick as any of the Valencia defenders. There were two more shots that just cleared the crossbar in the first half and he also managed to lob the ball over the head of Daniel Wass in the Valencia penalty area. It was mesmerizing. As well as the comparisons with Messi other Barcelona veteran watchers were talking about likenesses with Samuel Eto’o, Romario and Ronaldinho. When Ronaldinho made his debut for Barcelona Fati was nine months old. They have a new showman now to play alongside Messi as soon as the Argentine returns. It looks like Fati will pledge his allegiance to Spain despite being born in the Republic of Guinea-Bissau. Spain coach Robert Moreno was in the crowd to watch and confirmed at half time the Spanish Federation are pursuing Fati. He could be called up for the under-17s but he looks destined to skip various levels at international level as he has for his club. Despite the Fati show, Valencia sneaked back into the game before the break. On 27 minutes Rodrigo played Kevin Gameiro through and he scored off a post. There was a brief VAR offside enquiry but the goal stood. Barcelona went 3-1 up at the start of the second half when Arturo fed Antoine Griezmann whose shot hit the post. Gerard Pique was the furthest forward and turned the ball over the line. Again there was a wait while VAR confirmed the legality of the goal, again there had been no offside. Nelson Semedo hit a post moments later as Barcelona threatened to put Valencia— still in turmoil after their manager was sacked last week— out of sight. On the hour Luis Suarez came on to get half an hour under his belt ahead of next week’s Champions League. Fati was the player to make way and his name was chanted as he went off - another first for one so young. Suarez’s first touch was to bury a shot past hapless Jasper Cillesen playing against his former club. There was no fuss, no back-lift, just power and precision. Griezmann almost made it five from Suarez’s assist. Barcelona had now had 14 shots. With five minutes left he squeezed another goal past Cillesen at his near post. All this without Messi. Maxi Gomez made it 5-2 in injury time. Barcelona are yet to keep a clean sheet this season but going forward they could become more unplayable than ever.