For a player who has been around the Kenyan Premier League for close to a decade, Clifford Alwanga should know what it takes to compete in the upper echelons of the top division. The Mathare United star, who is preparing for his side's clash with Ulinzi Stars this afternoon reckons that their youthful squad can fight it out for top honours or at least finish in the top four. “There are very experienced teams in the league,” he said yesterday. “I believe we are one of them. We have a good mixture of youth and experience and you know youngsters are not fazed by many things and can course a surprise so the least I can see us get this year is a top-four finish,” he added. 'Nga', as the striker is nicknamed, conceded that the Slum Boys have in the past been undermined by a poor second part of the season after beginning their campaigns strongly. “It's something that we have talked about as a team. We have to show consistency throughout because that is how championships are decided. The coach (Salim Ali) has told us what he expects from us this season and I am sure the boys will make the effort to stick to our plans,” he remarked. The title winner with Tusker in 2016 admitted that the departure of their leading scorer for the past two seasons Cliff Nyakeya will be felt but that other players must step up to fill his shoes. Nyakeya joined Al Masr of Egypt. “Cliff was an important part of what we did in the last couple of years and now that he is not here, other players must step up. We have players like Tyson (Otieno), who has shown he has the temperament to succeed as a striker,” explained Alwanga. The once lethal goal-getter who is among a dozen or so players to have scored over thirty KPL goals with his best return being in 2018 when he scored 10. He deems himself even, at 34, still capable of fighting it out for the golden boot “I am still hungry at this stage. I consider myself an elder statesman in the league with all my experience and know-how. My first target, as always, however, will be the team's success,”he concluded. Mathare, though, unbeaten in their two matches thus far, are yet to win but they hope to change that with a visit of the soldiers at the Kenyatta Stadium in Machakos. 