The collapsed building that claimed the lives of eight pupils at Precious Talent Academy in Dagoretti has revealed a crisis in Nairobi’s education sector. It has emerged that public schools are too few to accommodate thousands of children thirsty for education, and whose parents cannot afford high fees charged in private institutions. On Wednesday, Governor Mike Sonko suspended 16 officers for alleged responsibility in the approval of construction of the killer block. The Star has established that most city children, especially those in informal settlements, have to trek for long distances to access free education in public schools, while others end up in low-cost schools where their safety is not guaranteed. Most of the private schools are surrounded by filth, sewage flows freely near them and children learn in crowded classrooms without necessary facilities. Some have to sit on the floor during lessons. “The situation is dire. We don’t have enough public schools in Nairobi and I think the government should act fast before things get out of hand,” Kware MCA Rose Kula said on Friday, citing her ward as a case that needs swift interventions. She said Kware has not a single public facility, yet it is one of the most populated wards in the capital. “In Kware ward, there is no public early childhood development and education centre, there is no primary school, there is no secondary school, there is no social hall and there is no playground,” Kula lamented. She said the ward has only one private school — Sarmayan Academy, which was allegedly built on a plot meant for public utility. It, however, charges prohibitive fees, yet the majority of residents are poor, the MCA said. In the neighbouring Kwa Njenga ward, a slum, there is only one pubic primary school. Imara Daima ward has only one public learning institution — Embakasi South Girls Secondary School. Kula blamed unscrupulous and faceless land cartels for grabbing and putting up factories and flats in all open spaces. “The government and Nairobi county should revoke licences of private schools that were built on places meant for public schools. Private schools are too expensive for most parents and the government should act really fast, revoke those licences and take over the schools,” she said. “In Kware, there is only one place which was left for public utility. That place is a quarry that will get filled in 100 years.” The city has about 225 public primary schools and 229 ECDE centres scattered across its 17 constituencies to serve more than two million children. Ziwani MCA and county assembly Education committee chairperson Millicent Mugadi urged the national and county governments to form a taskforce to audit all private schools. She said private schools have mushroomed in recent years, a situation she added has compromised the quality of education and safety of children. “The county and the national government should work on a policy to restrict licensing of private schools because most of them are money-making institutions,” she said. She stressed the need for education and physical planning departments to work together to ensure the safety of children. Efforts to get county Education executive Lucia Mulwa’s comment were unsuccessful. She did not return calls or respond to a text message. (Edited by F'Orieny)