1 Corinthians 11:15 proclaims ‘But if a woman have long hair, it is a glory to her: for her hair is given her for a covering.’ That verse shows the importance of hair on a woman. African hair can be difficult to maintain, especially making sure it grows steadily and looking bright and soft. What are some of the tips to keep one’s hair grows at a good pace and still look great? Here are some of the tips; 1. Protect your hair ends. Every three to four months you should trim your hair. This gets rid of any split ends allowing your hair to continue growing properly without further damage. 2. Be sparse with your hair washes. Washing the hair too frequently strips it of its natural oils, leaving it dry and vulnerable to breakage. If you are washing your hair daily or even every other day, that is too frequent. 3. Air Dry your hair. After washing your hair, the best way to dry it is by rubbing it gently with a towel or letting it air-dry. Try to avoid using a blow dryer as the excess heat will weaken and damage your hair. 4. Use a deep conditioner once every week. There are regular conditioners and deep conditioners. A regular conditioner is lighter and designed for use after washing your hair. It mostly touches the surface of the hair. A deep conditioner sinks deep into the hair. 5. Moisturize your hair. Having adequate moisture encourages fast growth and protects hair from breakage and split ends also keeping the hair looking bright and feeling soft. Moisturizing the natural way starts with drinking enough water before one buys products from the store. 6. Use a hair oil. When applying hair oil, make sure to massage deeply to ensure that it gets deep inside the hair follicles as well as on the surface of the hair. 7. Use a pre-shampoo. A pre-shampoo is a type of conditioning treatment that is applied on hair before using the actual shampoo. It’s thick which allows it to form a coat over hair strands. The importance of this is protecting the hair from getting too dry and breaking. 8. Use the right shampoo. Generally, African hair is brittle and damages easily. You, therefore, need to be extra careful about which shampoo you are using. A rule of thumb is to stick to sulfate-free shampoos. 9. Use a conditioner after every wash. Washing your hair will still wash away some of its natural oils so leaving it like that risks breakage and split ends. The best way to get it back in shape is by using a conditioner. It helps restore oils and moisture to your hair as well as nourish it.