A 73-year-old woman and her 47-year-old daughter — both known for generosity — were found murdered in their house in Makadara, Nairobi, on Monday. Investigations are underway, no arrests have been made. The motive has not yet been established. Detectives from Industrial Area police station visited the four-bedroom house following a report by a relative. “We got information on Monday at around 5.30 pm from one of Judith’s sisters that she found the bodies in two different bedrooms when she visited," Muthoni told the Star in an exclusive interview in her office on Tuesday. “According to the sister, the woman was lying face down on a bed, a sisal rope around her neck," she said. The daughter was lying on the floor. The police boss said relatives didn't report the killings immediately since they were too shocked. “The duo were last seen on Sunday at around 2a when they were dropped at their residence in a black Toyota Prado,” Muthoni added. the Star visited the scene on Tuesday when we were told the sisap rope may have been an afterthought. Detectives from the Serious Crimes Unit secured the scene shortly after reporters entered. The entire maisonette was dusted for fingerprints. Neighbours, relatives and security guards were interviewed. Journalists found three women inside the house. They said they were members of St Veronica's  ACK church in South B where the two victims worshipped. The trio declined to speak to the press, saying they were only taking care of the house. The bodies were taken to Chiromo Mortuary. The victims had been living in the house since the early 1990s. The woman had retired from the National Treasury and lived with her only daughter and husband. "The daughter resigned from the Cooperative Bank and even sold her car to sort out hospital bills for her father," Mutevi said. The Star spotted two wheelchairs, one outside the house and another one inside the sitting room, both used by the ailing man. Both women were active in a family WhatsApp group. Catering was described as keeping the cousins together. Relatives said the family became disturbed after mother and daughter went silent in the group on Sunday night. Two tenants were living in their servants' quarters, each paying Sh11,000 a month. A four-bedroom house rents for Sh60,000, a one-bedroom for Sh17,000 in the estate. (Edited by V. Graham)