Nairobi Jubilee MCAs have called out Kieleweke and Tangatanga groups to stop fighting in churches and respect the altar. The legislatures have said that fights and backstabbing of politicians in churches is uncalled for and should not be entertained. The MCAs lead by Majority Leader Abdi Hassan Guyo urged called upon the two groups to keep off political attacks in churches . “Places of worship should be respected and politicians from the two ground should stop using churches as grounds for attacking one another,” he said. Guyo stated that Political games should not be entertained in churches and those interested should make good use of the plenary sessions in assemblies to debate. “This does not happen in mosques or temples and the churches should not be misused into launching political fights,” he said. While attending a fundraising at Macedonia PCEA church in Kayole on Sunday, the MCAs said that politicians should refrain from political wars and support the President and developments in the country. “For now we have a leader who is President Uhuru Kenyatta and when 2022 comes as Jubilee party and the pact we have we shall decide who will take over ,” he said. “It is not right when one is in leadership and other people want to undermine and the tenure is not yet over. For now let us keep off campaigns and focus on developments. Let us give the President time to complete his journey and achieve his agenda,” Guyo added. The MCAs also urged Kieleweke and Tangatanga to put political differences aside and focus on making the lives of Kenyans better. “Politicians especially elected leaders should focus on service delivery and fulfilling their promises they pledged to the people whom elected them, Guyo said. He reminded the elected leaders that Kenyans will judge them in the ballot come 2022 not according to who shouted loudest in churches but based on the development they made to their people. In addition, the legislators invited politicians to embrace the handshake between the President and ODM Raila Odinga which has brought peace . “Every action has consequences and the handshake brought Kenyans together after the elections, for now as leaders we should walk the talk and support any agenda which will unite the country and advocate for development ,” Guyo said.