A Nairobi businessman has arrested in connection with the murder of a police woman in Eldoret. The body was found with knife stab wounds in her rental house on Friday. Joshua Ogach was arrested in Nakuru and taken to Eldoret. He will appear in court  today over the killing of police constable Robinah Moraa. Uasin Gishu county police commander Johnstonne Ipara said the suspect was arrested in a hospital where he went to seek treatment on Friday after a failed suicide attempt. The suspect was reported to have traveled from Nairobi on the day he visited Moraa. “Joshua Ogach is the prime suspect in the gruesome murder of the police officer. We are still investigating the matter and will arrest anyone else who may have been involved. The suspect is in custody helping us with investigations," Ipara said. He said the police got a tip that the suspect had gone to Nakuru Provincial General Hospital. He was arrested after being treated. He allegedly had taken poison in attempt to commit suicide. “The suspect was handed over to us on Friday evening by our counterparts from Nakuru. He will be taken to the High Court in Eldoret and be charged," Ipara said. Moraa, who was in her early 30s, was found dead in her rented house at Jamboni estate along the Eldoret-Nakuru highway. The house is about 6km from her work station at Naiberi police station. Her body had several stab wounds on her head and parts of the body. The police took the body to the Moi Referral Hospital mortuary. A postmortem will be done this week. Caretaker Stanley Some said it was the second time in a month that the suspect had visited Moraa in her house. Moraa had lived in the rented house two months. “She was a very reserved person who rarely mingled with other people," Some said. He said Moraa always left early for work and stayed in her house most of the time except when she when she came out to wash her clothes. Police officers at the Naiberi police station described their colleague as a humble and dedicated officer who was thorough in her work. The suspect in custody was said to have traveled from Nairobi on the day he visited the deceased. Neighbours urged the police to ensure those involved in the murder are brought to book.