Former world marathon record holder Dennis Kimetto and Delvine Meringor are among the athletes who have confirmed participation in Chemususu Dam Half Marathon on Saturday in Eldama Ravine, Baringo County. According to race director and former Olympic Games 3,000m steeplechase champion Mathew Birir, Kimetto will use the 21km race as part of his build-up ahead of New York Marathon. “We had a lengthy discussion with him (Kimetto) and he assured me that he will be competing in the 21km race. He said the race will be good for him as he prepares for New York City Marathon,” said Birir, who won gold in the 1990 world junior 3,000m title. Kimetto won the 2014 Berlin Marathon in a world record time of 2:02.57. The mark was later lowered by Eliud Kipchoge to 2:01.39 in 2018 at the same venue. Birir said they have dropped the 10km race to focus on the 21-km race. Meringor on the other hand, will be seeking to win the back-to-back women titles following her victory last year. The then little-known Meringor won her maiden 21km title in 73:21, edging out elite runners like Valentine Jepketer, Ruth Jebitok and a former World Half Marathon bronze medallist Paskalia Jepkorir among others. Meringor went ahead to win the Madoka Half Marathon two months later in Taita Taveta. “I am ready to defend my title. However, I am aware there will be a classy line-up and heavy competition on the ground but that will not deter my ambition,” she said. After winning  Chemususu and Madoka, Meringor got her maiden outing to compete at the Houston Half Marathon, where she finished sixth in her personal best time of 67:48.00. “My time was good in Houston and I want to build on that to ensure I improve it over the distance. My training is going on well and I am expecting good results on Saturday,” added Kaptagat-based runner, who trains under coach Elijah Mutai. In November, she finished second in the senior women's race at the Ndalat Gaa cross country in 28:05.0, behind the winner Sandra Chebet who timed 27:53.8 while Norah Jeruto completed the podium in 28:16.2.