Former councillors in Narok have defended themselves against claims they colluded to sell trust land in Mau Forest to settlers. They are drawn from the defunct Narok County Council and Narok Town Council. Led by Lydia Ntimama, former Narok Town Council chairman Kerimpoti ole Sadera and Maranka ole Otuni, they blamed the committee members charged with demarcation of the five group ranches bordering the Mau Forest for the mess. They spoke at a Narok hotel on Thursday. “The Trust Land Act of 2012 states that trust land should not be sold or set aside for settlement without the approval of the council. What happened is that some rogue elements colluded with some politicians in Narok South to sell the trust land,” Lydia said. While supporting the government's move into the ongoing evictions from Maasai Mau, Lydia said the implementation of the 2009 Mau Task Force was long overdue. “Among the recommendations of the report, which was approved in Parliament 10 years ago, was that people should be evicted, and we hope that this will be the last one,” said. Lydia is the daughter of the former Heritage minister, the late William ole Ntimama. Sadera urged the Mau settlers who claim to have bought land to relocate and settle in the land of those who sold the forest land to them. “Everybody who lives in Mau knows who sold the land to him/her. Let them go to them and demand back their money or alternative land,” Sadera said. Meanwhile, Maasai leaders led by Leina Tasur from Maasai Unity Agenda said they were happy that illegal settlers were moving out of the forest. Tasur said for the government to run a robust afforestation programme, all settlers must leave the complex. “We reiterate our resolve to support the government's efforts in evicting illegal settlers who have encroached on the forest.” Tasur defended Environment CS Keriako Tobiko, saying the insults thrown at him by some leaders were uncalled-for. “We regret the unfounded, almost childish insults targeted at Tobiko.  There is no place for insults, character assassination or outright lies in this issue,” Tasur said. 