Have the MCAs who flagged the suspicious Sh350 million garbage collection tender been barred from setting foot in Governor Mike Sonko’s office? Well, one of the legislators in the committee that probed the matter whispered to Corridors that together with his two colleagues, they were on Monday blocked from entering the governor’s office. He said they were blocked by the governor’s bodyguards, who claimed they had been instructed to do so. On Tuesday, Sonko spent more than eight hours at the Integrity Centre where he was grilled by EACC detectives over the questionable award of the tender to some 13 firms. Was a Kanu team embarrassed at a hotel located along the Woodvale Avenue near the Chinese Embassy? Well, Corridors of Power is informed that the team was surprised when some guests, who were taking lunch as they entered the hotel, suddenly burst into pro-DP William Ruto slogans. "Hustler juu, hustler juu; sisi tunajua hustler pekee yake," chanted the guests to the astonishment of the Kanu delegation. The hotel is owned by a wealthy Somali businessman. It is said the incident was a huge embarrassment to the Kanu officials. Some claim it also sent a clear political message on who is boss. An aide of a top politician is in trouble after an MP from Narok demanded back his Sh2 million. According to our mole, the legislator approached the aide to help him get his boss's endorsement of his 2022 gubernatorial bid. The MP got angry after the aide's boss failed to recognise him as one of the key potentials for the seat and immediately demanded back his money. Things almost turned ugly when they almost exchanged blows after which the aide refunded him only Sh1 million. The aide vowed not to return the remaining money, claiming he was teaching the lawmaker to be smart. A principal secretary from one of the Mt Kenya counties last weekend landed in trouble. Reason? Corridors has been told the PS was booed and jeered by residents of a village in the county after he attended a function on a ceremonial white seat. The technocrat with political ambitions to succeed a governor boasted that the seat cost him Sh5 million, attracting the wrath of locals who asked him to follow in the footsteps of their Woman Representative who sits on the grass with them during such public functions. Noting that the crowd was becoming hostile and could embarrass him, the man had no choice but to ask his aides to take the seat to a waiting pick-up and sat on a blue plastic chair.