A guard at a building site is fighting for his life after 15 men attacked him on Thursday and stole materials valued at more than Sh5 million. The gangsters, who were armed with guns and pangas, also cooked ugali and ate in the site manager's house. A developer is putting up a petrol station near Windsor Golf Hotel off Kiambu Road. Site manager Abdiaziz Mohammed and a worker also sustained injuries. Mohammed said one gangster had an AK47 rifle and another a pistol. “I heard a loud bang around 12:35am. Immediately, some men entered my room, hit me with a gun and ordered me to lie down while they stepped on my head," Mohammed told the Star. "The guard was stabbed in the eye with a knife while a worker was hit with a pipe on the head.” He counted 15 men who spoke Kikuyu. “One of the men, after we were tied up, rang someone by the name Mkubwa to bring a vehicle as they had finished. He threatened to kill us after they were done.” Two lorries and a canter arrived and the men started loading the loot, Mohammed said, adding that the whole incident ended around 4am. Site owner Abdin Mohammed said over 1,000 bags of cement, wheelbarrows construction steel posts and other materials were stolen. He said he had stocked everything for the construction to start. “I started constructing one and a half months ago after I was leased the one acre to construct a petrol station and a hotel but I was issued a court order last week restraining me as the land was in dispute,” Abdin said. He suspects the theft was related to the dispute.  He had all necessary documents for construction and the approval of the Nairobi county government. Kiambu OCPD Paul Kiprono confirmed the incident and that they have some leads as to where the materials could have been taken. “Investigations have been launched and the culprits will be caught," Kiprono said. Landowner David Gatere confirmed the court order and suspected that the developer was targeted due to the dispute. He has owned the land for 41 years. Edited by R.Wamochie