Teachers assessing Grade 3 learners have described the various evaluation methods used as time-consuming, tiresome and crude. On Friday, teachers from various city schools who spoke to the Star said the assessment of individual learners was burdensome. In English for example, the learners' ability to write, read and correctly pronounce words are assessed. "You have to sit and listen to every pupil in the room and help them correctly pronounce what is on the assessment paper," a teacher at a Nairobi school yesterday told the Star. According to the teachers, some learners take a long time in the exercise, making it a huge challenge for classes with huge numbers. "At the moment the government has given schools a window period of two months to conduct the assessment. But what if some of these methods are adopted in future testing?" a teacher said. Though teachers acknowledge classroom assessment is interactive and helps them to identify weaknesses in learners, they said that the current model used to assess Grade 3 is shallow. "Mathematics only involves four topics, English will have three topics to assess the learners. I'm not sure if this captures wholly what a learner needs to have achieved by the end of three years of schooling," another teacher told the Star. With examinations faulted for creating unnecessary competition under 8-4-4, teachers are now required to the only record what students know and can do. It has emerged that the task force on the transition from 8-4-4 to 2-6-3-3 system will rely on the assessment to give recommendations on testing of learners in future. In part, Knec is expected to adopt some of the assessment methods used in the current Grade 3 assessment to assess learners without wholly relying on examinations. This has been enabled through classroom assessment where teachers identify students' strengths and weaknesses in reading, working with numbers and attitude. The assessment is meant to how well the learners understand the new curriculum. "To move away from the exam-centred teaching and learning, the Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development wants learners to be tested through a collection of meaningful information to understand and help people cope with problems," KICD director told the Star in March. The concern though is that should the government adopt some of the methods used in the Grade 3 assessment then it would pose a challenge due to inadequate number of teachers. In particular, the classroom assessment used in to assess the learners through observation and practical assignments could disadvantage schools with large numbers. For instance, most public primary schools have large numbers of pupils. Some schools report as high as 70 to 80 students per classroom Currently, the examination council is yet to give the most suitable mode each institution will be required to use to test the learners.