More than 60 families from the Maasai and Ogiek communities have voluntarily moved out of the Mau Forest ahead of planned evictions. The families said that they had opted to move out of their farms for fear of being attacked by security officers. At least 4,000 officers have been deployed in preparations for the second phase of evictions in Nkareta areas in Narok county. “Previous evictions turned bloody after the settlers confronted the Kenya Forest Service officials. This time, we decided to move early to avoid similar scenarios,” Julius Koikai, a settler, said. Koikai said that they are law-abiding citizens and wanted to honour the government directive to move out of the forest. “We have friends and relatives living kilometres away and they have assured us of support as we seek to settle down and schools reopen for third term,” he said. The security agencies have pitched camp at Loliondo area, attracting curios area residents. They started arriving in the area on Sunday, a move that appears to have sealed the fate of the nearly 60,000 settlers. The team which converged at Kenya Forest Service offices held a closed-door meeting, locking out the media despite earlier assurance. Government agencies have remained tight-lipped over the commencement date for second phase evictions even as the troops were dispatched into the Maasai Mau complex The team led by regional commandant Henry Peto, commander Alex Lemarkoko and Narok chief forester Mwai Muraguri left Kenya Forest Service officers through town to Sierra Leone, one of the affected areas. Maasai leaders led by Leina Tasur from Maasai Unity Agenda said that they were happy that illegal settlers were moving out of the forest. Tasur said for the government to run a robust afforestation programme, all settlers regardless of their ethnic and political persuasions should leave the complex. “We reiterate our resolve to support government efforts in evicting illegal settlers who have encroached on the forest,” Tasur said. Tasur defended Environment CS Keriako Tobiko saying the insults thrown at him by some Kalenjins leaders were uncalled for. “We regret the unfounded, almost childish insults targeted at Tobiko.  There is no place for insults, character assassination or outright lies in this issue,” Tasur said. Leaders from all regions should behave with decorum while addressing the Mau issue, he said. Mau settlers spokesman Benard Sang appealed to President Uhuru Kenyatta to intervene and save them the agony they are going through. “This is where we have called our home and we do not know any other place,” Sang said. The Maasai Mau settlers have said they will stay put and urged the government to compensate them for the losses they incurred in last year’s evictions. Ololulung’a MCA Jafferson Langat said that the settlers have genuine title deeds and are ready to conserve the forest if they are involved. “We cannot be led like sheep to the slaughter. We shall fight for our rights if the government is not keen on talking to us,” Langat said. He wondered why the state was in a rush to evict the people and yet they have not fully resolved issues from the previous evictions. “Many people died. Children and women were subjected to psychological torture. People had their human rights violated,” he said. Langat said the government was looking to create another an internally displaced persons' camp. The leader also noted that if the state is interested in their land, they should negotiate with the settlers and agree on willing-buyer, willing-seller arrangement on current market rates. “We don’t want this circus any more. Otherwise, we are not going anywhere,” Langat said. The government had marked the boundaries where it separated the forest and people’s farms and even planted tea as a buffer zone, he said. The government last week through Rift Valley regional commissioner George Natembeya issued a 60-day voluntary vacation period to those affected. Families living beyond the cutline were asked to move so as to pave way for fencing off and restoration of the water tower. On Sunday, furious Rift Valley leaders said the expulsions are not guided by sound policy. The leaders said they wanted an audience with President Uhuru Kenyatta. Kericho Senator Aaron Cheruiyot and Belgut MP Nelson Koech said they will be seeking official government position on the evictions. "I want to know from the President Uhuru Kenyatta and his Deputy William Ruto whether they have changed their public position to the issue," Cheruiyot said. Cheruiyot said the duo promised people living in the area that they would build their schools, hospitals, and roads if they voted for Jubilee. (edited by O. Owino)