As the Caf Champions League return match pitting Gor Mahia and USM Alger draws closer, coach Steven Polack is not worried with the growing list of injured players in his line-up. Gor will host the Algerian side this weekend at the Moi International Sports Centre (MISC), Kasarani, as they seek to overturn a 4-1 loss suffered in Algiers in the first leg,  a week ago. However, their bid is facing a hurdle in injuries notably in the striking department as the duo of Nicholas Kipkirui and Gislein Yikpe were joined by Francis Afriyie on the treatment table. Afriyie was stretchered off in their Kenyan Premier League match against KCB over the weekend, leaving Polack without a fully fit striker ahead of the match. Kennedy Otieno who is fourth in the pecking order was not drafted in the list when the club submitted their squad to Caf on August 6. Afriyie, who was set to make his continental bow in the return match after missing the first leg and the preliminary round against Aigle Noir of Burundi,  opened his goal account last Sunday in their 2-1 win over the bankers. He scored the opener but did not last long on the pitch, thanks to a groin injury. Yikpe is yet to feature in a competitive match since joining from SC Gagnoa Polack said he has more than 23 players at his disposal whom he tipped to maintain their perfect run in the league and the registered ones to overturn the deficit. The defending champions have won their two league matches to sit third with six points and a match in hand. “Football and injuries are synonymous and we are fully focused for the match. We have more than 24 players who can don the job against Alger. We know the continental stage is different and tough but hopefully, we will sail through.” The British coach in the meantime called upon Football Kenya Federation to swiftly assume responsibility and cater for the treatment for his right-back Philemon Otieno. The former Ushuru player tore his Anterior Cruciate Ligament in a 2020 Chan qualifier match against Tanzania last month and he is yet to undergo surgery as recommended. Gor have been accusing the federation of deserting Otieno who got injured while on national team duty.  