Sailors coach Thomas Mucheni lauded his team’s performance following a 2-1 victory over United States International University USIU-A Spartans in a Kenya Hockey Premier League match at the City Park Stadium yesterday. Seasoned Leah Omwandho’s brace in the second and 54th minute was all that Sailors needed to overpower USIU as Veronica Maua’s 20th-minute goal turned a mere consolation. Mucheni heaped praise on defender Yvette Kanyandong for keeping at Bay USIU’S troublesome attack. He earmarked the midfield as an area to be addressed going forward. He said: “The girls were aggressive and the victory was hard-earned. It was sweet revenge having lost in the first leg and the team’s self-belief paid off as we scored early. Kanyandong for me was the standout performer with her reading of the game and commanding display. We have to work on our execution in the middle as we ran out of steam midway in the game.” Stand in  USIU coach Willy Otieno said they will work on their sluggish start in a bid to have a respectable finish. He said: “A slow start costed us and they utilized the few chances they created. Runner-away leaders Telkom look set to retain the title. For us we have to fight for second place. Had we won we could put pressure on Telkom. We look forward to a quick response from the girls.” Barnabas Odhiambo men Super League tutored side Nakuru overcame a spirited  Impala team courtesy of 1-0 Gary Jean Louis’ 40th-minute goal. Impala who are flirting with relegation, have won only two of their 14 matches. In the women category, promotion-chasing University of Nairobi beat Vikings 2-0 to close the gap to five points with table toppers Wolverines. Mercy Oyugi and Clementine Sims scored in the 23rd and 50th minute respectively to hand the second-placed students their fifth win of the season. Vikings remain sixth with eight points in the eight-team table. The result leaves USIU third on the log with 17 points, a point less than second-placed Strathmore University who have 18. Sailors move to fourth with 14 points as the league enters the homestraight.