A Kibera court has acquitted a Korean missionary charged with forging a document purporting to be from the county Urban Planning and Housing department. The forged document purportedly gave him illegal ownership of a piece of land. Kibera senior resident magistrate Boaz Ombewa on Friday ruled that the prosecution had failed to prove the case against Seung Ho. The prosecution had called several witnesses who testified in the case and closed the file. “Having analysed both the prosecution and the defence witness, I, therefore, acquit both the accused persons according to the law,” Ombewa said. He ordered that the cash bail be remitted back to him if it was deposited in court. Ho had testified that his compatriot and friend had colluded with City Hall to demolish his church, grab his land and fix the charges against him. He had denied forging the documents as alledged and was released on bond. Ho had told the court that Kang Jonathan, his compatriot bought the land and later subdivided it. He went ahead to say that Jonathan lured City Hall to build a sewer on the parcel of his land where he had constructed his church. Ho also testified that the Director of Criminal Investigations had probed the matter and found that Jonathan, the complainant, forged his signature to grab his land. Even after they built a wall to separate their parcels and ensure privacy, Jonathan still went ahead to corrupt City Hall officials in 2013 and convinced them to demolish his Sunday school, Ho had testified in court. “After I constructed my Sunday school, my friend, together with City Hall, came with bulldozers and pulled it down to erect the sewer line and a wayleave,” he had told the court. He had proved to court that City Hall, through the Urban Planning and Housing department, had approved his ownership and allowed him to construct the school. The court heard that the duo came to Kenya in 1998 — Ho as a Christian missionary and Jonathan as a businessman. They purchased the land and later divided it based on their shares, an exercise that was overseen by the surveyors. Jonathan got 60 per cent and Seung 40. Ho had also accused Jonathan of taking his pictures while in court and posting them to Korean bloggers to taint his image. “He posts them on social media, portraying me as a criminal who has been convicted. He has done it frequently. Even today morning, my picture was taken and you can just confirm from his phone,” he told Ombewa. Jonathan dismissed the claims. He said he neither forged Seung's signature nor sought to steal his land.