DP William Ruto has been told to publicly rebuke and condemn inciteful remarks made by some residents of his Rift Valley backyard. Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu on Wednesday told the DP to order for the arrest of a woman who was captured in a video warning that the Kikuyu community must leave Molo (Nakuru county) if Mau forest settlers are evicted without getting compensation or alternative land. The video went viral on social media, prompting a public uproar. It emerged against the background of a raging debate on the planned Mau eviction. “Let's also see and hear you [Ruto] publicly disassociating yourself and the entire Kalenjin political leadership from such warlike voices. The war declaration being made is from your part of our country against people associated with the Mt Kenya region,” Wambugu said. “If you love Mt Kenya people, the way you claim you do, please, let's hear your voice on this matter.” The woman is heard telling the government to assist those evicted from Mau forest so people can live in peace. She says those being evicted from Mau were from Bomet, Narok and Molo. She says if they are to leave the Mau and return to Molo, then the Kikuyus in Molo have to pave the way for them. The crowd accompany her is heard cheering. "That's the only right way of doing things because we bought the land just the way those in Molo bought that land," she says. But Wambugu said on his Facebook page that the sentiments are dangerous. He said an elected Kalenjin leader had also been reported in the media suggesting something similar. He said Belgut MP Nelson Koech was quoted as saying "People will soon begin thinking it’s ok to evict their neighbours who are not natives even if they have land documents." “We need to deal with this impression that seems to exist in sections of the Kalenjin community and leadership that whenever Kalenjins are unhappy with a particular political or government decision, they can (violently) evict Kikuyus from the Rift Valley,” Wambugu said. He said the idea was behind the violence witnessed in the country in 2007, cautioning that what happened then must never recur. The legislator said the woman should be traced and arrested, as her words are inciting. She should be made to explain what she meant, he said. He also wants MP Koech summoned to explain what he meant as reported by the Daily Nation on Wednesday. "Kikuyu elected leaders from the Rift Valley, especially those who go around worshipping the ground DP William Ruto walks on, need to step up and speak out against such dangerous utterances," Wambugu said. "It’s shameful that they see nothing wrong with the fact that it’s the DP’s allies making such threats and loaded statements against Kikuyus in the Rift Valley; the very same people who put them in the public offices they are misusing to campaign for a man who is quiet as his allies threaten them.” (Edited by F'Orieny)