National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale has hit out at Education CS George Magoha, accusing him of sleeping on the job. Duale was reacting to last Monday’s incident where eight children from Precious Talent Academy in Dagoretti, Nairobi, were killed when a one-storey building collapsed. More than 60 were injured. Duale asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to sack some of his non-performing Cabinet Secretaries. “The other day we were all awoken to some very sad news where we lost our young and promising children in an accident that could have been easily avoided if only those charged with the responsibility had done their work as required. We are telling the President, you must sack of some members of your Cabinet,” he said. Duale spoke at Jarirot in Garissa Township constituency on Sunday when he donated food to the residents, opened a women's training centre and distributed sewing machines. “Unfortunately, they wait until it happens and then led by Prof Magoha start telling you that he will take responsibility. Together with his team he is moving around closing schools. Does it mean that they only woke up from slumber when the children died? Is that why they were given jobs?” Duale said. He said public servants under whose watch lives are lost must take full responsibility. He called for more arrests and prosecution in relation to the Monday tragedy. “The speed at which the DPP and the DCI arrested the proprietor of the school should be applied in the arrest of officials in the Ministry of Education quality assurance section, the highest level that approved the school to operate. They must be taken to court,” Duale said. The owner of the school Moses Wainaina was arrested and charged before Kibera chief magistrate Joyce Gandani. He is detained at Kabete police station for 15 days to give police time to complete their investigation. The Ministry of Education has since mounted a crackdown on all schools in the country to ascertain those that don’t meet the required standards to operate. At least four schools have been closed.