Bandari goalkeeper and Burundi international Justin Ndikumana is plotting to use Fifa international week to convince his club’s technical bench to hand him his debut and starting roles. Since joining the dockers last month from Sofapaka, the custodian has found it tough breaking into the starting team, thanks to the superb displays by Harambee Stars trialist Michael Wanyika who has conceded twice in the last four competitive matches. Wanyika, who played second fiddle to Farouk Shikalo last season, has proved equal to the challenge so far, keeping clean sheets against Al Ahly Shendi of Sudan in a continental assignment and was outstanding in their league opener barren draw against Mathare United last weekend. The former Kakamega Homeboyz player has not shied away from fitting into Shikalo’s shoes but the experienced Ndikumana has vowed to use the break to inspire Burundi to the group stages of the World Cup qualifiers as well as oust Wanyika. Ndikumana, who was part of the Burundi team to the last edition of the Africa Cup of Nations, made it to the team named to face Tanzania in a two-legged 2022 World Cup preliminary round where the winner will proceed to the group stages. The first leg was due last evening at the National Stadium Dar-es-salaam with the return leg set for Bujumbura on Sunday. The towering gloveman whose continental exposure was sought by Bandari to aid them to progress in the Caf Confederations, said he is eyeing to start in their next league match against Zoo FC and the subsequent Caf first-round match at Kasarani against US Ben Guerdane of Tunisia. “I have been at the club for some weeks and I think I have adapted and I am ready to start against Guerdane. I have been patient enough and I have worked hard to show something to the technical bench. Meanwhile, I am planning to use the two international assignments against Tanzania to justify why I should not be starting from the bench. Wanyika has been good in the past matches but I believe I will start in the next match.” Meanwhile, the club’s goalkeeper trainer Razak Siwa has expressed optimism that Ndikumana will be ready when they host the Tunisian outfit next weekend. “His registration and a few other players were done behind schedule but I think he should have been cleared before we host them. I am happy with the quality we have in the department and I think the best will start.”