The Nairobi county government has given powers to medical and clinical officers to treat assault cases and fill P3 forms. This is aimed at giving timely justice to sexual and gender based violence  (SGBV) victims. The county and sub-county health teams deliberated and agreed on the same. This means residents can now get the P3 forms from the county health facilities. A letter written by Director of Health Lucina Koyio this week indicates that the officers in county facilities handling SGBV services are to take the lead in filling of the forms from private facilities. Private organisations dealing with SGBV cases have also been authorised to fill the forms on behalf of survivors at the county health facilities. The facilities dealing with the cases include Makadara Health Centre, Mama Lucy Hospital, Kasarani Health Centre , Dandora Health Centre and Lavender House MSF on Juja road. According to Koyio, the new directive is geared towards having a nurse-driven model in securing justice for survivors. "Nurse Driven Model is an intervention that has been recognised widely and puts Nairobi county on the international map," Koyio said. MSSF is the lead partner on SGBV matters in Nairobi and their officers have been filling forms in the county health facilities that they support. Medical officers do fill P3 forms in private hospitals but efforts to have such arrangements in government hospitals have been derailed by long court proceedings. The P3 form is a document that is obtained from a police station and filled to facilitate prosecution. Koyio says police officers have been supportive and that MSFF has been bridging the gap. "City residents can still access P3 forms in our public facilities but it is important to note that MSFF is specific to Gender Based Violence to increase access to care," Koyio noted. According to county Health executive Mohammed Dagane, the more functions are devolved the easier the access “Justice delayed is justice denied. In most cases offenders are not convicted because of delay in accessing the service police forensic pathologist who is overwhelmed . Our staff also refrain because of tedious court proceedings as witness,” he said. Currently, intern medical officers don't fill P3 forms. Initially, all P3 forms were filled at the police surgeon's office but officials have been overwhelmed. The county has also agreed to facilitate service providers who attend court with a facilitation fee of Sh1,500. Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko has also hailed the new move, noting that it will reduce congestion in police stations. "Health is a critical matter and we must make sure that all those seeking justice due to assault and other gender-related cases are helped in time," Sonko said. The Gender Violence Recovery Centre in Nairobi reports that 45 per cent of women between ages of 15–49 have experienced either physical or sexual violence. The rate of violence has been on the rise. Additionally, it is reported that one in every three women and one in every five men experience at least one episode of sexual violence, abuse or defilement before reaching the age of 18 – an experience that not only can affect their physical and emotional health and safety immediately, but also shape their future in terms of their attitudes towards violence, their adoption of risky behaviour and their ability to perform normal daily functions. Researchers have proven that violence is generally worse in urban centers and in unplanned settlements. It has been estimated that one third of the urban population in developing countries today live in overcrowded and unserviced neighbourhoods, often situated on marginal and dangerous land. In Kenya, these kinds of conditions can be seen in areas including Mathare, Huruma, Kangemi, Kawangware, Korogocho, Dandora and Eastleigh. According to a study in Nairobi’s Kibera slum, over 36 per cent of female residents report being physically forced to have sex (compared to 14 per cent of all Kenyan women) and over 30 per cent of women reported being forced to perform other sexual acts (compared to 14 per cent of all Kenyan women).