Lucia Nekesa, the 40-year-old mother of five who was trafficked to Iraq from Mombasa in November last year, could soon be on her way back home. In a voice note to her family on Saturday, Nekesa said Iraqi police were making travel arrangements to send her back. “I am somewhere safe. Don’t be worried. Police came and helped us. We are at a police station,” Nekesa told her family members via WhatsApp. Nekesa was duped by a Kenyan recruitment agent that she would be taken to Qatar to do paid domestic work for a wealthy family in the country. But the Kenyan recruitment agent delivered her to his Iraqi counterpart before cutting all communication with her. The Iraqi agent sent Nekesa to several employers, who mistreated her. In a video appeal for help in early August, Nekesa said her health had deteriorated because of frequent beatings ostensibly for being lazy. “I am bleeding a lot. I have tried taking medication but they do not work,” she said then. She said she was sometimes locked in the bathroom for up to three days with two meals a day. “They bring breakfast at 1pm and lunch at 5pm while I'm in the bathroom,” she said. The Star highlighted the story and the Kenyan government sought to intervene. When the Iraqi agent heard that the Kenyan government was following up on the case, he pulled Nekesa from work but sent her to another employer after the heat from the Kenyan government cooled. Nekesa’s husband Gilbert Oduor, 51, had previously expressed fear for his wife's life and pleaded with the government to make plans to have her return to Kenya. On Saturday, Haki Africa rapid response officer Mathias Shipeta criticised the government for the slow pace on the matter. “A Kenyan mother is suffering in a dangerous country while the government drags its feet,” Shipeta said. Nekesa on Saturday said she worried that her family would think she was dead after going for weeks without communication. She said that her phone was confiscated by the Iraqi police, who keep on taking her round in circles whenever she inquired about her travel arrangements. “I was also worried. I thought you guys will make funerals arrangements for my burial,” Nekesa said in the voice note. “Don’t worry. God is with us. Pray for me. I will come any time now,” she said. (edited by O. Owino)