Nairobi county will use special funds to build good relations with neighbouring communities and support water systems from counties that supply the capital. The Water and Sanitation Service Policy was adopted by the county assembly on Wednesday. Funding willbe allocated at a later date. Under the policy, communities from Murang'a , Kiambu and Nyandarua counties will be given incentives to engage in sustainable land management practices on riparian land. The policy also aims to ensure the integrity of water supply infrastructure. Paul Kados, chairman of the assembly committee on Water and Sanitation, said funds will be useful in security and management of water catchment areas. "Water transmission through the riparian communities in these counties is a cross-county relations issue," he said. "It's only fair that Nairobi, being the recipients of water from these counties, shows appreciation by setting aside some funds to help manage the water catchment areas and support communities around these areas," he explained to the Star. The capital city and nearby counties have been at loggerheads over the ownership of Ndakaini Dam and Northern Water Collector Tunnel. Last year, Murang’a Governor Mwangi Wa Iria had proposed that at least 25 per cent of the revenue generated from water channelled to Nairobi from Ndakaini must be given to Murang’ a , otherwise he would cut off water supply to the capital. He argued that the dam supplies Nairobi county with more than 84 per cent of its water and yet only 30 per cent of the capital city residents have access to tap water. The governor and the county assembly also threatened to halt construction of the Sh6.8 billion Northern Collector Tunnel if Nairobi fails to pay the 25 per cent levy. Nairobi responded by stating that the old Nairobi City Council administration purchased the land where Ndakaini Dam s located and even compensated residents who were displaced from the water tower. City Hall reached out to the Murang’a county administration to stop a plan to charge 25 per cent tax on water from Ndakaini. Acting assembly Speaker Chege Mwaura directed the assembly’s liaison committee to take up the matter and give a progress report. The water policy also says that the county will partner with the national government and other stakeholders to conserve and protect catchment areas. "This will help promote sustainable land management practices among the riparian communities. As a result, the Nairobi County Government will be an active member of the Basin Water Resources Committees and the cross-county catchment management committees," Kados said. Kados who is also the Mihango MCA said the policy was developed through comprehensive stakeholder participation and therefore most stakeholders' concerns are addressed. In passing the policy, Nairobi has become the first county to engage on this issue at a purposeful policy level. The county has the first Water and Sanitation Service Policy framework in the country at both national and county levels. (Edited by V. Graham) 