After being rendered club-less following a botched transfer to Tanzania’s Singida United, former FC Talanta midfielder John Mwita is now blaming the former for halting his progress and soiling his reputation. Mwita was smuggled to Tanzania behind Talanta’s back in July where he signed a three-year deal. However,  it later emerged that he had a running contract with the National Super League side, who reported their Tanzanian counterparts to Fifa through the Football Kenya Federation for player tapping. The federation swiftly blocked the player’s transfer, declining to issue the certificate. Talanta accused Singida of deliberately failing to negotiate and raise the transfer fee for the player who had a running contract till December and after their pursuit for justice failed to yield fruit, they resorted to terminating the player’s contract on the eve of the transfer deadline. Mwita faulted the club for announcing his capture without his knowledge. Mwita was unveiled on Singida’s social media pages as Ismael Mohammed contrary to his profile registered at the federation while plying his trade with Talanta, Modern Coast Rangers and Migori Youth, Before joining Talanta last year, Mwita had featured for Coast Rangers and Isebania who later re-branded to Migori Youth. He revealed that after the past season came to a close, his close relative who works with Singida approached him with an intention of signing him to the club but the deal hit a snag as both parties and FC Talanta did not launch negotiation. He said he is frustrated as he will have to wait till the next transfer window slated for next year to seek a new club. “I did not sign or negotiate with Singida and I was surprised with their revelation that I had joined them. I am annoyed with them for their unprofessional conduct which will see me struggle for months without a club. My reputation was soiled and life will be difficult now that I will be jobless for months. Football was my full-time job and it’s unfortunate I lost it.” The versatile midfielder further clarified his controversial citizenship after Singida reported that he was born and raised in Tanzania. “I am a Kenyan and I have legit documents. I was born in Sirare and have grown up in Mombasa. Any information given by Singida was done without my consent and I believe was in bad faith.”