A somber mood engulfed residents of Kayole estate along the Nairobi-Nakuru highway after a two-year-old boy was hit and killed by a speeding car. During the Monday morning incident, the minor was decapitated by the personal car that also hit and injured a relative who is admitted to Naivasha Subcounty Hospital. The area that is located 10kms from Naivasha town has recorded fatal accidents involving pedestrians every two weeks with speeding blamed for the cases. Resident Joshua Muya said that the minor who accompanied by the mother and his aunt had alighted from a matatu from Naivasha town. “The mother was the first to cross the road and the aunt and the minor followed, But they were hit by a speeding car. The child died at the scene,” he said. Meanwhile, residents of Mai Mahiu in Naivasha woke up to a rude shock to find a pack of dogs feeding on the remains of a human being. The incident occurred near Sembemba village. The police recovered a leg. In the last couple of weeks, police and members of the public have discovered several bodies dumped along the Naivasha-Mai Mahiu road by unknown people. Witness Ann Nyambura said members of the public spotted the dogs fighting over what looked like a piece of meat. She said that on closer examination, it emerged that it was the remains of a human being and the police were called. “The dogs were feasting on human remains and by the time police came in only the leg remained,” she said. Nyambura expressed concern over the source of the remains as there was no public cemetery around the village that is located off the Naivasha-Mai Mahiu road. “It’s a puzzle as to where the remains came from and where the other part of the body is but police have started investigations,” she said. Naivasha police Samuel Waweru said inquests file had been opened up as part of their investigations. “The leg and the body of the minor have been taken to the local mortuary and we are concerned by the increasing number of accidents involving pedestrians,” he said. 