A Catholic catechist who was sacked over allegations of defilement has sued the church for compensation. Albert Nyamu, a former catechist at Majengo Parish in Eldoret, said he was framed of the crime leading to his dismissal. But a priest told the court that he suspended Nyamu, who was serving under his Parish in Eldoret diocese, for allegedly defiling a 13-year-old girl. Reverend Father Joram Ng’ang’a of Majengo Parish Church testified before Justice Nelson Abuotho that he took administrative action against Nyamu after the girl's mother reported to him that her daughter had been sexually abused. “She told me about what her daughter had gone through. That is why I took administrative action against the catechist,"Ng’anga said. Nyamu denied claims by the priest that he defiled the minor. He said the girl's mother framed him. “I'm married, I did my wedding in this church. There was no way I could have defiled the girl in my house which is in the church compound,” Nyamu said. Nyamu is accused of committing the offence on October 10, 2015 at Majengo in Uasin Gishu county. However, the suspect said he was wrongfully dismissed because the allegations of defilement were never proved. It was alleged that the suspect lured the girl, who was in a group of other minors, to his house and defiled her.  The girl reported to her mother. “We summoned both the girl and the catechist. Elders decided that the catechist be suspended from work," Ng'ang'a said. The priest said the suspect had been assigned volunteer work to teach catechism class for children at the parish every Saturday. After the alleged abuse, he was stopped from his duties. Ng’anga said the matter was reported to acting Eldoret Catholic Diocese Bishop Maurice Crowley who sanctioned the suspension.  He said Nyamu had no contract with the church and was doing volunteer work. “Therefore, he cannot claim any form of compensation from the church yet he knows that he was a volunteer," Ng’anga said. Nyamu wants the court to compel the church to pay him his dues, including overtime to enable him move on with life. The Judge adjourned the matter to October 14.