The row over cancellation of the Sh 22.5 billion Kimwarer dam has intensified after leaders from Elgeyo Marakwet sent a petition to the President Uhuru Kenyatta, asking him to visit, hear them pit and rescind hisdecision. Residents protested peacefully at Kimwarer calling the President's decision political and one that will hurt more than 100,000 residents in the semi-arid. ae Residents led by businessman Micah Kigen wrote to Uhuru arguing that his decision was ill-informed and based on a faulty report by a technical team that was formed to look into the viability of the Kimwarer and also Arror dams. “The technical team never visited the area to assess the ground and talk to the locals. That is why we believe the decision was political aimed at hurting the Keiyo community and other neighbouring residents," Kigen said. He spoke at a community meeting attended by Keiyo South MP Daniel Rono, businessman Bundotich Buzeki, lawyer Ledisha Kipsey among other community leaders. However key leaders from the county including Governor Alex Tolgos and Senator Kipchumba Murkomen skipped the meeting. Uhuru cancelled because a special technical report said the dam site was on a seismic fault and because the last feasibility study was done 28 years ago. Kigen and Kipsey argued that the project should have been scaled down like Arror dam in case it had been detected to be more costly than had been planned. “To say the project was not viable is not true. The area has enough water that will not require any pumping as claimed by the technical team and its irrigation component would have helped starving people inElgeyo Marakwet and Baringo," Kigen said. More than 400 residents had already been prepared by the Kerio Valley Development Authority to give up their land for compensation and make way for the project that was to be located at Kimwarer in Keiyo South along the Eldoret-Ravine road. A technical team headed by PS for Infrastructure Professor Paul Maringa found that the project had been overpriced and it was neither technically or financially viable. About Sh4 billion had already been paid to Italian firm CMC di Ravenna which had been contracted by KVDA to develop the project. The technical team also found that the water supply mechanism for the dam would require pumping and mechanism would be costly and not sustainable. Kimwarer was to be developed along with the Arror Dam in Elgeyo Marakwet which was to cost Sh35 billion.The technical team established that the Arror Dam was viable but had also been overpriced. Arror is to be scaled down to 60 meters from the original plan96 meters. Kipsey and Kigen, however, said the government would spend more on legal costs to cancel the contract. “Why spend money on legal costs for breach of contract rather than talk with the contractor to scale down the project but continue? Kigen asked. He said suspended CS Henry Rotich was sacrificed because of the politics around the project yet he was only implementing collective plans by the government for the project. It said it first discussed in 1980 when Rotich was in primary school. Two residents Peter Bargetuny and Titus Chemase have also petitioned the Senate questioning the legality of the President’s order which they want to be reversed. (Edited by V. Graham)