Deputy President William Ruto has said the ongoing debate to change the Constitution should not be allowed to derail the Government’s development agenda for Kenyans. Ruto said the country cannot be transformed through constant calls for a constitution change, noting that it is only through development initiatives that lives of Kenyans could be improved. Speaking during a tour of development projects in Vihiga County, on Saturday, the DP said the ongoing calls for a referendum to change the Constitution would not interfere with Jubilee’s agenda for the country. "Development will not be disrupted by the ongoing politics to change the Constitution. Kenyans want roads, hospitals, schools, hospital insurance among other projects to improve their lives and not politics," said Ruto. Present were Charles Gimose (Hamisi), Benjamin Washiali (Mumias East), John Waluke (Sirisia), former Vihiga Governor Moses Akaranga and former Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale. The Deputy President said Jubilee was ready to work with all leaders irrespective of their political affiliations since the time for politics was over. "We are ready to work with all those who have been elected by the people irrespective of their ethnic and political backgrounds because development has nothing to do with political affiliations," he said. The Deputy President told leaders not to be bothered by his development tours of the country. He said: "It doesn’t matter who invites me to development meetings because our agenda is to serve Kenyans. I am not touring the country to play politics. There is time for everything." Ruto asked leaders to shun the culture of neglecting the electorate and only remember them during elections. "We do not want politics where we only visit the people when elections are around the corner to solicit for their votes. We should be there for them at all times so as to address their challenges,” said Ruto. The leaders dismissed claims that they are teaming up with the Deputy President to frustrate Musalia Mudavadi’s presidential bid in 2022. They said their decision to work with Ruto was informed by the region’s developmental needs. The leaders spoke in Esibila Primary School in Emuhaya and Nabwani secondary school in Vihiga County during a women's empowerment programme. Gimose said they have been working with Dr Ruto to initiate development projects aimed at transforming the lives of residents in the region. He said Ruto's meetings in the region were not meant to trigger political competition but address the region's developmental needs. "We have not come here to provoke anyone we have come here for the sake of development," said Gimose. Washiali said Ruto's countrywide development tours was to ensure the Jubilee development agenda was implemented including the Big Four- manufacturing, healthcare, housing and food security. Waluke said leaders from the Luhya community would continue to work with the Deputy President because he was focused on development. The leaders told the Luhya community to support the Deputy President for presidency in 2022. "I want to ask you to support Dr Ruto for presidency in 2022 because he is the best candidate to take over from President Uhuru Kenyatta," said Khalwale. The Deputy President also launched a Sh15 million Sabatia town street lighting programme.