Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa has accused MPs allied to the Tangatanga movement of undermining Luhya unity. Speaking on Sunday in  Luuya, Kabuchai constituency, where he donated iron sheets for the homeless, Wamalwa said it was important that the Mulembe nation speaks with one voice and resists division by outsiders. “While we are striving to bring the community together, there are others who are hell-bent being used by outside forces to divide the community,” Wamala said. The CS said that during the recent anniversary to for Masinde Muliro held in Cherangani, he was surprised that some MPs allied to the Deputy President gave it a wide berth. “When all the sons of the Mulembe nation were meeting, they are your sons here who decided to miss the function to discuss matters of the Mulembe nation and decided to show their allegiance somewhere else," Wamalwa said. The Masinde Muliro anniversary on August 14 brought together top Luhya leaders who included Wamalwa, ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang’ula. MPs allied to DP Ruto instead went to his Sugoi home. MPs supporting the DP in the region include Dan Wanyama of Webuye West, Didmus Barasa of Kimilili, Fred Kapondi of Mt Elgon, Mwambu Mabonga and John Waluke of Sirisia. Wamalwa told the leaders that it was too early to declare support for any presidential candidate, while their own sons had a desire for State House. "We have seen our brothers already declaring support for some candidate, it is too early to do this and it would be prudent if they let us put our house in order as the Mulembe nation together,” he said. Wamalwa said several sons of the Luhya nation had declared that they will run for the presidency and the community will rally behind them Those who have declared they will run for the presidency in the region include Mudavadi and Wetang’ula. Wamalwa said all those leaders were in talks to ensure that they speak with one voice in the next General Election. (Edited by V. Graham)