Two suspects have been arrested in connection with the Monday night attack at Ichaweri village in Gatundu South that left one dead and three injured. Deputy county commissioner John Maina told the Star that the two were arrested on Friday and are helping the police track their five accomplices. Maina said that the suspects, whom residents claimed are members of an outlawed sect, are suspected to be from Githurai but are originally from Gatundu. “We have received great assistance from residents and that’s why we were able to arrest the two. Five more are on our radar,” the administrator said. Since the Monday night incident, police have increased night patrols in all affected areas. Area security committee held a baraza in the village on Thursday and agreed to strengthen security, Mwangi said. During the Monday attack, the gang shot one villager dead and seriously wounded three of his family members before fleeing with phones, cash and other valuables. The attack was perpetrated only a few metres from President Uhuru Kenyatta’s home which is usually heavily guarded by the police. The ruthless gang also attacked Ng’enda village. The attack prompted residents to stage protests against insecurity in the village that had reached alarming levels. The attack was recorded at Gatundu Police Station under OB No 43/10/09/2019. The report also indicated that another resident, Hellen Nyokabi, reported a similar case where a gang invaded her home and made away with a Samsung Galaxy phone valued at Sh20,000, an Infinix phone valued at Sh12,000 and Sh4,000 in cash. The police report further stated that her husband Daniel Kibe was hit by the gang on the back of the head and right forearm with a blunt object. The armed thugs also accosted Nyokabi’s brother-in-law Joseph Kagwa who they shot on the back. Kagwa’s wife Mary Mutinda was shot in the right leg. The two were rushed to Gatundu Level 5 Hospital where Kagwa succumbed to his injuries. Villagers who spoke to the Star on Saturday said that they have been living at the mercy of the gang for the last one month. “These criminals are heartless and we highly suspect that they are members of an outlawed sect. The Monday incident should be a wake-up call for the police who have been sleeping on their job,” Mathew Macharia, a resident, said. The locals also told the police to investigate and apprehend the criminals who have been stealing their livestock. “We suspect they are the same people who have been stealing and slaughtering our cows and goats before selling them to meat joins in Kenyatta road area and other eateries along the Eastern by-pass,” Joseph Ndichu, a resident, said. (edited by O. Owino)