Dead men tell no tales, so goes the popular adage. However, this doesn’t apply to one Francis Kimani, who, nine years after he was ‘killed’ on paper, has filed a case seeking to demonstrate to court that he is alive. Kimani says one Ruth Wambui moved to court claiming to be his wife and, armed with a death certificate, obtained letters of administration for land that belonged to him. She had allegedly said she was married to Kimani and together they had 11 children, a claim Kimani has denied. Kimani says Ruth had told the court he died on October 26, 2010. “It is only fair after being joined as a defendant in these proceedings with the applicant will he be able to file proceedings of his own and effectively participate in these proceedings by reason of his status as a defendant,” he said. “The joinder of the applicant as a defendant is necessary and shall enable the court to effectually and completely adjudicate upon and settle all questions relating to the ownership of the suit property.” Kimani denies knowing Ruth, let alone marrying her. He says he does not have children with Ruth as she had claimed and he is not dead. “The applicant is a total stranger to the fictitious, vexatious and malicious allegations raised by the plaintiff in the suit inter alia that he is known to Ruth Wambui Kimani and he was married to Ruth Wambui Kimani,” the suit papers by the man read. Kimani says he purchased the land in question from Kimemiah Engineering Constructions Company Limited and a transfer registered in his favour on May 26, 1997. Subsequently, he sold the property to Agnes Kagure. The transfer was executed on October 7, 2015, but he was notified of the existence of a case filed by Ruth. Ruth had sued Kagure over the land in question. In suit papers, she identifies herself as the administrator of Kimani’s estate. Kimani says the ‘wife’ raised some serious allegations, which he needs to rebut urgently, hence his move to seek to be joined in the case as a party. The property in question was sold at Sh40 million. A deposit of Sh27 million was made at first and then another Sh13 million was paid to his account as the purchase price. (Edited by F'Orieny)