A Murang'a bishop has told politicians involved in a Sunday church fracas to publicly apologise. Bishop James Wainaina in a press statement on Monday said a time has come for politicians to be limited from church activities. He said the limitation going forward will be extended  to all the dioceses which include Murang'a, where the scuffle ensued. Wainaina said following the incident that disrupted the normal flow of the service, it was evident that politicians have no value for christian gatherings. He said politicians have for years taken christian gatherings conveniently as platforms for self-interests and self-proposition in elective posts. "I feel that this incident was a strong confirmation of the reasons to limit time and space offered to politicians," he said. He said the incident further confirms why christian gatherings must always remain in the hands of a bishop or priest. "This has put us on guard that an incident which may look innocent at the beginning can become uncontrollably ugly and embarrassing if the wrong people take over control of such gatherings," he said. Wainaina maintained a church is a house of prayer and must be respected by all. He said Sunday's incident is regrettable, unfortunate, uncalled for and above all shameful. On Sunday there e was drama at a church in Kiharu constituency after area MP Ndindi Nyoro,  a Tangatanga member, clashed with the Kieleweke team. The drama started after nominated MP Maina Kamanda, who was the chief guest, invited Ndindi to address the church. After outlining his development projects, Ndindi declined to hand over the microphone back to Kamanda, insisting that as the area MP, it was his role to invite the leaders who had attended the church. "These leaders have set a bad precedent by treating the house of God as an arena to settle political scores. Their actions are a bad example to children and the youth who look upon them as role models," He said. Wainaina added, "Such an incident must be condemned in the strongest terms possible and must not be allowed to recur". The Bishop said a time has come for politicians to uphold the dignity of places of worship. To him, they must practice tolerance in political divergence and decorum in expression of political views. "They must refrain from acts and utterances of hatred, division, intimidation and incitement to violence," he said.