Kakamega Homeboyz new entrant winger Steven Etiang who played a pivotal role in edging AFC Leopards 1-0 in their first match of the 2019/ 2020 Kenya premier league campaign in Bukhungu Stadium on Sunday has his focus on the top scorers' list for this season. Speaking after he gave his new team a win against Ingwe Etyang said he has his target set on being at the top of the scorers' list and also play a role as an assist to teammates. “For me, I have set my targets and I want to be among the top scorers and maybe assist my teammates and that will put the team at a higher level and if possible we take the league or finish at top 5 as a team,” Etiang stated Etiang who last season played for Nzoia FC also revealed that he was pleased to make his Homeboyz debut with an impact by scoring and also being a thorn in Afc Leopards defence. “I enjoyed the game against Ingwe and I’m very happy, this being my first game with a new club as well and you also know what Luhya derby means and above all scoring a goal that determines such a game, i really thank God for the chance and i know my targets will be made.” He said The youngster added that the score had boosted his confidence and that Homeboyz which is becoming a big club will help him develop and bring out his full potential. “Am very grateful for the management of the team which has helped me to settle very fast and also my coach Nicholas Muyoti who has helped me a lot to learn skills and techniques,” said Etyang. He predicted a tough season ahead and called upon the other team members to work hard and maintain discipline for the long and stiff season. Kakamega Homeboyz coach Nicholas Muyoti echoed Etyang’s sentiments and touted him to succeed in this top-level as he begins his work with the Kakamega based outfit. “I applaud Etyang, he worked very hard, he is a very good boy  and that goal was born out of his hard work, he has what it takes to succeed at the top level but he only needs to remain hard working maintain discipline and also be patient knowing that this journey is a process.” Stated Muyoti.