Residents of the disputed Elsa Ntirim of Isiolo county near KDF's School of Infantry have a month to vacate voluntarily or be evicted by the forces. While presenting the eviction notice to residents on Friday, assistant county commissioner Julius Marwa said continued occupation of the land has severely affected training activities and endangers residents due to the ammunition used. The letter from the Defence PS was addressed to the Interior PS. Marwa said the letter has issued clear instructions to the county commissioner to implement forceful evictions after the 30 days lapse, calling upon the affected people to willingly vacate. “However, anyone with genuine land ownership documents should register and file their complaints with the office of the county commissioner,” he said. Residents have cried foul over the move to evict them from the only place they have called home since the 1960s. Huka Godana said he has lived in the area since 1967, affirming that the soldiers arrived in 1982 and were offered 100 acres by some three elders. "But they have continued to expand the boundary and are now demanding over 10,000 acres". Mary Gacheri said the soldiers had abused the generosity shown to them by residents, adding that they have suffered since the School of Infantry was established. She said they have been pursuing the boundary matter in court since 1998, but the soldiers have maintained that they will not be involved in a case with civilians. “I urge President Uhuru Kenyatta to intervene and help us resolve the matter, there is plenty of idle land in Isiolo the military could be offered without antagonising the public,” she said. Another resident John Loyan said at least 30,000 people are affected, as well as six public primary and two secondary schools. He said the area, regarded as the food basket of Isiolo town, is now experiencing hunger since the soldiers diverted the rivers whose water farmers used for irrigation. The military wing, Loyan said,  had disregarded an agreement they made with the local community regarding the border three years ago when George Natembeya was the county commissioner. Joyce Nairisiae said the soldiers were only accorded land to put up three tents on their way to Samburu county where the military camp was set to be established. She argued that the soldiers have since retracted the decision to move. Isiolo Woman Representative Rehema Jaldesa said oppression by the military first took place in Isiolo. the county now has three military institutions; the School of Infantry (SOI), School of Artillery (SOA) and the 78th Tank Batallion (Isiolo Barracks). The MP said residents don't benefit from corporate social responsibility expected from having such institutions near them. She said over the years, the soldiers have failed to sink any boreholes, construct any roads or build any schools or hospitals. Edited by R.Wamochie