Deputy president Wiliam Ruto has hit out at the Raila Odinga-led ODM party for criticising President Uhuru Kenyatta 's endorsement of Jubilee Kibra candidate MacDonald  Mariga. In a tweet on Friday which appeared to be a veiled attack on ODM, the DP said, "So it's right for all others to endorse theirs [candidates] and wrong for Jubilee. Fisi angojea mkono ya mtu (Hyenas are waiting for a chance to devour),"reads the tweet. Ruto said said the handshake was never meant to kill parties or replace competitive multipartysm. The DP said those ranting about Jubilee Party leader Uhuru Kenyatta endorsing Mariga should give them  a break, adding that other party leaders were endorsing their candidates. "The handshake was never meant to kill parties or replace competitive multiparty democracy. Those ranting about our party leader endorsing our party candidate should give us a break,"reads the tweet. ODM member and Embakasi East MP Babu Owino had on Wednesday warned that Mariga’s candidature was a sign of betrayal of the handshake between Uhuru and Raila. "Baba must be very careful with this thing called handshake. No fruits so far. We can’t be duped twice. President Uhuru must be genuine with this handshake. Baba we must be very careful and if the marriage is void because one party is very incompetent,” he said. Uhuru and Ruto on Wednesday assured Mariga of support  in the forthcoming Kibra by-election. They met the former Harambee Stars player at State House and vowed to fully rally behind him in the race. The President wished Mariga, who was accompanied by Jubilee Party Secretary-General Raphael Tuju, success in the contest and assured him of his full backing. The DP later took to twitter to urge  Jubilee supporters to follow  Uhuru's suit and support Mariga in the Kibra by-election. Ruto  said all those under the Jubilee party must come out in large numbers and drum up support for Mariga ahead of the November 7 contest. "Now that Mariga Jubilee’s Kibra candidate was cleared by IEBC and formally unveiled today by our Party leader, it is all systems go. The ball is squarely in the court of all of us leaders serving under President Uhuru Kenyatta, party members and supporters to deliver the seat. Twende kazi jameni,” the tweet read. Mariga on Friday embarked  on a meet-the-people tour of Kibra. Accompanied by a few youths, Mariga walked around the slum as he greeted its residents and sold his agenda. Mariga will now face off with other 23 candidates who have been cleared by IEBC. They include Imran Okoth of ODM, Eliud Owallo of ANC and Khamisi Butichi of Ford Kenya, among others. The Kibra parliamentary seat fell vacant after former MP Ken Okoth succumbed to cancer.