Police have raised concerns over an increase of Illegal Aliens and Undocumented Immigrants. In the latest manual of crime statistics released by the National Police Service, this influx has continued to pause a major security threat to Kenya. The manual indicates that a total of 2,173 aliens and undocumented immigrants, were arrested all over the country. According to the manual, the highest numbers of those arrested were Tanzanians and Ethiopians who accounted for more than 40 percent. The aliens included 455 Tanzanians at 21 percent, 452 Ethiopians at 21 percent and 281 Somalis at 13 percent. Nigeria had 146 immigrants at seven percent, followed by South Sudan with 137 immigrants at six percent. Neighboring Uganda had 106 immigrants at five percent. Other nationalities included Sudanese, Burundians, Chinese, Congolese, Rwandese, Britons, Indians, Germans, Italians, South Africans, Canadians, Egyptians, Guineans and unknown nationalities who accounted for less than 100 people. According to the report, aliens and undocumented immigrants continue to move into the country for different reasons. “These reasons include political instability in their home countries, seeking for better opportunities in Kenya, criminal intents and using the country as a transit route to other 6 countries,” the report reads. It added, “In light of insecurity caused by terrorism and other transactional crimes it is prudent that all aliens and undocumented immigrants be processed through the legal structures." The report said in an effort to deal with this challenge joint operations of inland migration corridor in border control checks were conducted. “Investigations, arrest, prosecution, as well as deportation of foreign nationals who are engaged in crimes was enhanced,” read the report in part. With regards to proliferation of illegal fire arms and light weapons, the report said the effect of having illegal arms and ammunition in the wrong hands in the country, further continues to be a matter of concern to security agencies. Pastoralists' areas and major towns have recorded a high number of criminal incidences that are attributed to availability of illegal guns. Pastoralist communities who live in expansive areas that are sparsely populated are affected the most. “During the period under review, 192 firearms were recovered and 19 surrendered. Most of the firearms recovered were in Nairobi County which recorded 121 recoveries followed by Narok 21 and Kiambu 12. Together with the firearms 1,314 ammunition were also recovered,” the report quoted. The report also reveals that most of the firearms surrendered were in Narok County which recorded 13 firearms. “To deal with this threat an amnesty was extended for the period ending September 2018 which led to the surrender of 166 illicit arms,” it read. Currently, the government is further implementing a directive on issuance of biometric cards for all licensed firearm holders. This is in addition to the prioritization of surveillance against this threat to identify the distribution networks. Other key interventions include marking of government owned arms and training of security personnel on Physical Security and Stockpile Management.