Muthaiga Golf Club’s pro golfer, Greg Snow is among the 38 local professional golfers headed for the prestigious Uganda Open which starts tomorrow (Tuesday) at Lake Victoria Serena Golf Resort & Spa course. Snow will be targeting back-to-back wins in the event which counts towards the second round of Safari Tour Golf Series. The professional category was preceded by an amateur competition won by David Nduva on Saturday “I’m ready for Uganda Open and it will be good to win again after a good start at Nyali,” said Snow who played a round of 73 on the final day of the Nyali Golf and Country Club leg of Safari Tour Golf Series, to card an overall score of 3-over par 287 and victory in the first event of the 2019/2020 series. Also in Uganda Open mix are leading professional golfers including Royal Nairobi’s Eric Ooko, long hitter Dismas Indiza, Sigona resident Pro CJ John Wangai, Golf Park trio of David Wakhu, Tony Omuli and Jacob Okello. Others are Simwa siblings Nelson and Boniface, Joseph Karanja (Golf Park), Kopan Timbe who is the resident Pro at Thika Greens and youngster Mathew Wahome who turned professional on the home leg of Safari Tour opener at Nyali last month. Wahome has represented the Kenya Amateur team in the Kenya Open and several other regional events and won the Coast Open which is a round of the Kenya Amateur Golf Championship, formally Goty. Snow, who got off to a shaky start at Nyali by carding a round of 74, held his nerve and found groove through the rest of rounds to claim the top spot in Nyali. He is looking forward to valuable points in Uganda Open which has attracted players from over 15 nationalities including France, Cameroon, Ivory Coast, Zimbabwe, Kenya, Zambia, Seychelles, Senegal and Nigeria. Kenya will be represented by 38 pros while Zimbabwe will have 19. India will be represented by Rawal Maharshi with France entering two including Antier Guillaume. The event will renew perennial rivalry which has existed between Kenya and their neighbours Uganda. Last year, Ugandan Ronald Otile beat Kenya’s John Karichu by a stroke as he marched to his third Uganda Open title at the Entebbe course. Otile joined Stephen Birungi and Deo Akope who have won it three times since 1997. Legendary golfer Sadi Onito (RIP) is arguably Uganda’s greatest golfer of all time having won the event a record 12 times, a feat he achieved in 20 years from 1976-1996. Out of the five Ugandans who competed in round one at Nyali, only Opio Onito made the cut and returned home with Prize money. Other pros; Abbey Bagalana, Brian Toolit, Phillip Kasozi and Denis Anguyo did not make any money from the tour and will now hope to make amends together with the rest of the Ugandans in the next Safari Tour event on home soil next week. The professionals from the region and from all over Africa are using Safari Tour to secure qualifying points to participate in the Magical Kenya Open. The Entebbe Open that will be held on October 30-November 2 will also be part of the Safari Tour as is Tanzania Open which will be the last leg.