President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto have assured their Jubilee candidate in the forthcoming Kibra by-election. Uhuru and Ruto met former Harambee Stars player MacDonald Mariga at State House on Wednesday and vowed to fully rally behind him in the race. The President wished Mariga, who was accompanied by Jubilee Party Secretary-General Raphael Tuju, success in the contest and assured him of his full backing. Other leaders present were National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale and Jubilee Party Chief Whip Benjamin Washiali among others. The meeting is seen as a signal for Mariga to kick off his campaign in the race set for November 7. Mariga will now face of with other 23 candidates who have been cleared by IEBC. They Include Imran Okoth of ODM, Eliud Owallo of ANC and Khamisi Butichi of Ford Kenya among others. The Kibra parliamentary seat fell vacant after former MP Ken Okoth succumbed to cancer. Jubilee Party National Elections Board chairman Andrew Musangi while announcing Mariga’s candidacy described him as a man of impeccable character and credentials who has had "enduring connections with the people of Kibra". After he was handed the certificate, Mariga found himself at crossroads after IEBC declined to clear him on grounds that his name was not in the voter register. IEBC returning officer Beatrice Muli then told Mariga to seek redress with the IEBC Disputes Resolution Board. "We have invalidated Mariga's nomination," she said. Muli said other documents presented to them were in order. "Mine was to confirm that the aspirant meets requirements. I have verified and checked and I could not find his details.  At this point my hands are tied," she added. Mariga filed a petition with the Dispute Resolutions Board which in its determination cleared him. Making the ruling on Monday, IEBC Dispute Tribunal said it is obligated to conduct continuous registration of citizens as voters. "It is our finding that the complainant was duly registered as a voter," IEBC Chairman Wafula Chebukati said. Chebukati said that the absence of his name in the voter register cannot be taken as conclusive proof of lack of registration.