The pain of losing a child, regardless of age, is unbearable. This was witnessed on Thursday as parents transferred the bodies of their children from Chiromo to City Mortuary. The eight children died on Monday at Precious Talent Academy in Nairobi after the one-storey building housing their classrooms collapsed on them. Some parents are still mad at the institution as they blame the owner for negligence, while others have accepted saying that it was God’s will. A memorial service will be held for the children on Friday at Telcom Grounds near Showground along Ngong’ Road. The children's bodies will not be presented during the mass. Regina Wanjiru, a mother of two, told the Star of her excitement about her firstborn son joining high school next year. Tedius Kinyanjui, 15, wanted to go to either Mang’u or Lenana high schools. His dream was to become an engineer. His mother described him as a happy and social person who would make his neighbourhood laugh. “The wall of the classroom was held by a piece of wood before it went down. It created a space where one could pass through. My son, therefore, decided to save the lives of his three classmates before saving himself. As he was trying to escape, it was already too late for him," she said. “I am mad and I am blaming the owner of that school for neglecting my child. Luckily, his sister Rosemary Wanjira survived death because her class and his were separated." Tedius died from internal bleeding and will be buried at the Lang’ata cemetery. Jermaine Njeru, a Standard 8 pupil, had just turned 14. She aspired to study medicine in future. Jermaine, who was index one in her class, had a target of scoring 430 marks in the Kenya Certificate of Primary Education examinations. She was the firstborn in a family of two. Her brother Season Njeru is in Standard 7 in the same school and luckily escaped death. Her father David Njeru described her as creative, innovative and a genius. He said he has let go of what happened to his daughter and the rest of the pupils and "has painfully accepted her death". Njeru said he does not blame the owner for the incident but was hopeful the authorities would follow up the matter. “She was a very promising girl. She was someone you could sit down with and reason together. All through her educational journey, she never scored anything less than 400 marks. She promised to make us proud in KCPE," he said. She will be buried at their Karathe home in Meru on Wednesday. Edited by R.Wamochie