The ghost of the collapsed Chase Bank is back to haunt former Kenya Ports Authority bosses. Members of the National Assembly Public Investments Committee on Saturday said they will summon former KPA boss Gichiri Ndua and the entire board that was at the helm between November 2015 and April 2016 when KPA made Sh3 billion deposits in the bank. The former port bosses will be required to explain deposits at the bank that collapsed after fraudulent internal lending led to a loss of at least Sh14.9 billion. The bank collapsed on April 7, 2016, and the Central Bank of Kenya put it under a one-year receivership the following day. It was later bought by Mauritius lender SBM Bank. On Saturday, current KPA boss Daniel Manduku defended his board saying they are all new and have been trying to get to the bottom of the matter. He led a team of KPA top brass who were being questioned at the English Point Marina in Mombasa by the PIC chaired by Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir. Nassir left the session shortly before 5pm, leaving North Mugirango MP Joash Nyamoko to hold brief on his behalf. Current KPA General Manager Finance Patrick Nyoike, who was part of the management team when the Sh3 billion was deposited in the bank, said due diligence was done before the deposit. Wajir South MP Mahmoud Sheikh said KPA deposited Sh1 billion on December 22, 2015, another Sh1 billion in January 2016 and another Sh1 billion on March 1, 2016. He said the deposits were made despite Chase being a 'small' bank. “We want to know if the deposits were approved by the board, if due diligence was followed and why an authority like KPA would deposit huge sums of money in a bank that is not owned or co-owned by the government,” Sheikh said. Nyamoko said they already have the names of all the board members present during that time. Nyoike, who acknowledged he was part of the management team during the questionable transaction, said Chase Bank was one of the four priory banks that the authority was dealing with then. The others were Family Bank, Citi Bank and National Bank. Currently, the priority banks for KPA are Citi Bank, Equity Bank and National Bank, Nyoike said. The MPs questioned the logic in using ‘small’ banks as the main trading banks. “It is not the first time some small bank is folding with taxpayers’ money. There is no way KPA can deposit Sh3 billion in a small bank that has no branches countrywide,” Manyata MP John Nyaga said. “Was there approval for this kind of transaction? I think this was some kind of collusion,” the MP said. Kaloleni MP Paul Katana and his Shinyalu counterpart Justus Kizito said Manduku should not bear the burden of former KPA bosses. “If somebody had an intention to steal from KPA through some means, then let them carry their own cross,” Kizito said. Katana said they will not relent in protecting taxpayers’ money. “We have a duty to ensure the hard-earned money that Kenyans get is safe or put to good use." Edited by R.Wamochie