The national government is set to issue 70,000 title deeds in Kilifi County beginning June next year in a programme aimed at resolving the squatter problem at the Coast. Lands Chief Administrative Secretary Gideon Mung'aro said the government was committed to end the squatter problem by ensuring locals get proper land ownership documents. Speaking during a burial ceremony of Mzee Reuben Chai, an elder who died aged 107 years, at Gede in Kilifi North constituency, Mung'aro said  elected coast leaders had a fruitful meeting with the President Uhuru Kenyatta and resolved the issue of land must be addressed fully. He said there will also be no more harassment and intimidation of squatters by tycoons owning land. The CAS said landowners will now have to engage elected leaders before effecting any evictions. "We are beginning a programme to issue title deeds in Coast region, in Kilifi County alone we shall give 70,000 title deeds by June next year," he said. Coast region has had challenges of land ownership since independence, leaving thousands of people to live as squatters. Also present during the burial was Kilifi Senator Stewart Madzayo, Woman Representative Gertrude Mbeyu and area legislator Owen Baya. Madzayo said the idea of resolving squatter problems should be addressed with the proper strategy of ensuring landowners are compensated before giving squatters title deeds. He said that the CAS announcement to issue 70,000 title deeds was political and may haunt him in the future if he won't fulfill it. According to the MP, the national government should establish settlement schemes and acquire land to settle people instead of giving them title deeds without considering the landowners. He said there were problems at John Keen Land in Kilifi, Chembe Kibaba Muche and Kilifi Jimba settlement schemes among others which have controversies that are yet to be resolved. "Telling us he will issue 70,000 tittle deeds is political and we will ask questions when the time comes," he said.