Lucia Nekesa has been to hell and back. She was locked in a small bathroom cubicle for up to a week without food or water, forced to work despite being sick and beaten by her agent who said she was lazy. She was raped and sold from agent to agent in Iraq. The 40-year-old mother of five can finally smile after being reunited with her family after 10 months of slavery in Baghdad, Iraq. “No one should go to Iraq or any other Middle East country to work as a domestic worker,” she warns. She arrived back in Kenya on Friday but not before sleeping at the Baghdad Airport for three days after she and others were left there by Iraqi authorities. “We had no food or water to drink. We begged from the officers at the airport but they just looked at us in dismay,” Nekesa said. She had been duped by an unscrupulous Kenyan recruitment agent into thinking she had landed a lucrative job as a domestic worker in Qatar. However, she found herself in Iraq last November and would go on to work for as many as six different employers. She did not realise she had been ‘sold’ to a cruel Iraqi recruitment agent, whom she identified only as Rahab. “Rahab and her brother used to beat me whenever I was returned by employers. You see, I got sick from the beatings and could not cope with the amount of work they gave me. So they called me lazy,” Nekesa said in an interview at her house in Maweni, Nyali constituency, on Monday Rahab had at least 12 workers in her stable and she was cruel to all of them,Nekesa said. While working for one employer, she escaped and reported her suffering to police. It was futile. The police only returned her to Rahab, who then sold to another agent who used to rape her subjects, she said. “When I arrived there, there were like 12 other women there. I did not know I was sold. They told me I was going to work in another better place. The women there told me I had been sold,” Nekesa said. Two Kenyan women were among the 12. The two were also raped by the agent, Nekesa said. Of her six employers, only one took her to hospital. That was when she complained of increased bleeding from her private parts. “I was forced to work non-stop. I was the car washer, the gardener, the security guard, I did all the domestic chores. The only time I used to rest was when I hid from my bosses to take a nap for about an hour,” said Nekesa. When she managed to contact human rights activists Haki Africa, through her husband Gilbert, Kenyan authorities started following up on the case. “That is when Rahab started telling everyone that I had been stealing from my employers. That is the version she used to tell the Kenyan agent who used that as his defence,” Nekesa said. “None of the employers I worked for ever complained said I stole from them,' she said. Rahab demanded Sh200,000 from Nekesa’s family to arrange her travel back home. The agent Rahab sold Nekesa to demanded Sh400,000 for her release. “Being sold to that rapist of an agent was like the start of my journey back home,” she said. The Iraqi authorities had gotten wind of the agent's operations and raided his office. All the 13 women there, including Nekesa, were arrested and taken to police cells for three weeks before being taken to court. They were charged with various offences including being in the country illegally. They were sent to jail where they spent another one month while their travel documents were being processed. “In jail, we were mixed with prostitutes, madwomen, those who sold their kidneys, a lot of different characters. I left three Kenyan women in that jail,” Nekesa said. Two of the Kenyan women had run away from their employers. One of the women was from Kwale and said her agent, whom she Identified as Sajad, had demanded Sh100,000 for her release. “It is pure animosity in Baghdad,” she said. She said the Kenyan government has to be more serious about citizens sent as domestic workers abroad. “If possible the government should just ban travel to those places if one is going to work as domestic workers,” Nekesa said. However, more desperate Kenyan youth are being trafficked to the Middle East. Nekesa said she met 50 Kenyan women during a stopover at Sharjah Airport in the United Arab Emirates on her way back home. “I talked to them and only three were going to Berlin (Germany). The rest were going to Saudi Arabia. (Edited by V. Graham)