Just what has the combative Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa done to Deputy President William Ruto's foot soldiers in Kilifi county? Some legislators from the region, who had shifted to the DP's camp, have threatened to return to Raila Odinga's ODM. They told Corridors that Jumwa has 'ring-fenced the DP’. One of the affected lawmakers said they can no longer reach the DP and every time they try to call him, the DP Ruto refers them to the vocal lawmaker. The politicians are now planning to affirm their support for ODM, with a view to launching a scathing campaign against Jumwa and Ruto ahead of 2022. That there is panic at Kenya Airways is not a secret. Yesterday some of the people who are part of the group that has been fleecing the national carrier was busy in meetings discussing the Delloite dossier published exclusively by the Star. It is understood the cartel which had been scattered by Sebastian Mikosz is exploring ways of regroup now the CEO is leaving. A top government official who is on the radar of graft detectives over the acquisition of a multi-million asset at the Port of Mombasa is crying foul. The man, who is alleged to be fronting one of the international firms for the lucrative tender, claims that he is being 'fixed' over his troubled relationship with a senior Jubilee leader. Interestingly, the Jubilee politician is also said to be fronting another international firm for the same contract. Sources said those involved have panicked, coming just days after President Uhuru Kenyatta issued a chilling warning to those abetting graft at the Coastal facility. Many have reportedly been grilled and the high-profile investigation is threatening some careers A prominent member of the women's political group known as Inua Mama is the talk of her fellow female legislators. Why? The woman has worn the same clothes, including shoes, for two consecutive days. The vocal MP, known for her acerbic tongue and love of sexual talk, is said to have spent Thursday night in a Nairobi hotel and left early morning on Friday to join colleagues for a rally the group had organised in Eastleigh on the same day. Hygiene, it now appears, has nothing to do with social status. It has everything to do with mindset. Have the principal of a secondary school in Nairobi and a doctor colluded to swindle parents out of money? Parents at the school, which is situated in Nairobi’s Eastlands area, are concerned about a 'scheme' to refer their children, whenever they are unwell, to the specific doctor. The parents are required to pay Sh5,000 prior to their children getting the appointment to see the medic who does not even have a laboratory to carry out tests. Staff at the school yesterday were overheard wondering aloud about who will save the parents?