Bandari head coach Bernard Mwalala says they head to Tunis to defend their two-goal advantage, against US Ben Guerdane, as they seek passage to the historic CAF Confederation Cup second round in two weeks’ time. This comes after their 2-0 first-leg win over the Tunisians at Moi international  Kasarani stadium on Saturday in the first leg clash. Congolese import Mwana opened the scores with a 73rd-minute header from a corner before Abdalla Hassan doubled the advantage five minutes later with another header from a free-kick. The dockers who had played five competitive matches without finding the back of the net, considering the away goal that saw them move to CAF next stage against Ahli Shendi was an own goal by the Sudanese side in their 1-1 draw. "We have been training hard to score since the lack of goals was a worrying trend, and am happy we scored a double considering the number of chances we had,” Mwalala said. In the KPL barren draw with Mathare United Bandari were without injured top striker Yema Mwana and Hassan Abdalla who were were badly missed. Mwalala believes the return of the duo and teamwork helped win the clash and we will continue with the same spirit ahead away clash. "It is only half time, and we have prepared for a very tough game and defend well as we eye at least an away goal since the Tunisians are technically gifted and proved they can attack," the former Kenyan international striker added. Mwalala also confirmed winger Benjamin Mosha who was replaced by Wycliff Ochomo, only  15 minutes after coming in for  Cliff Kasuti had a hamstring injury which they didn’t want to aggravate. Bandari needs at least a draw to sail through, and Mwalala knows too well the tusk ahead going by poor record of Kenyan sides in the Mahgreb region. "I know they are plotting our downfall, and we have to prepare adequately for the historic clash with at least an away,” Mwalala said. The Coasterians host Zoo Kericho in the KPL on September 18, 2019, before tackling Sony Sugar away to Awendo. Three days later on Friday, September 27, they clash with Ben Guerdane, at the Stade du 7 Mars stadium in Tunis with the money bracket group stage at stake.