Garissa county MCAs alleged on Tuesday that residents of the Somali border town of Hulugho had been brutalised and tortured by security officers. They told a press conference that security officers must not maim people and injure livestock. The MCAs were reacting to pictures of a man drenched in blood; photos were circulating on social media on Monday and Tuesday. The man appeared to have gunshot wounds to the head. Several goats and sheep had similar wounds. “We want this to stop. We cannot continue to complain of torture and harassment by security people every other day. These are Kenyans and they should be treated with dignity if they have committed any crime,” Hulugho ward representative Adow Omar said. Garissa county police commander Alfred Angengo said on Tuesday that the MCAs' allegations have not been brought to his attention. "What they are saying are just allegations. I'm not aware of anything about the matter. If it is true, they know where to report to so that the matter can be investigated," the police boss told the Star said on the phone. "Nobody, including the political leaders, has reported anything. I am inviting them to my office at any time." Garissa county commissioner Meru Mwangi urged political leaders to report the matter to authorities so it can be investigated. He spoke to the Star on the phone on Tuesday. The MCAs called for residents to stay calm, saying they would seek compensation from the state for victims of torture and extrajudicial killings. “Top military officers at the camp in Hulugho should be held responsible for attacks against civilians. It is unfortunate that the individuals entrusted to protect Kenyans and their property are the turning against them,” he said. KDF spokesperson Colonel Paul Njuguna did not pick calls from the Star or respond to text messages seeking comment. Department of Defence spokesperson Bogita Ongeri had promised to get back to the Star, but had not done so by press time. A top KDF official told the Star, "The government cannot comment before the matter is investigated." Sangailu MCA Abdullahi Mohamed said such cases have been on the rise. He urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to intervene and end the torture of residents. On Saturday, residents of Garabey in Hulugho subcounty near the Somalia border claimed that the military descended on their village at midnight and indiscriminately opened fire. They claimed that resident Adhan Salat Dagane was severely injured. Residents also protested at the military camp in the border town, prompting officers to release a man who was allegedly arrested during the raid. Majority leader in the Garissa assembly Mohamed Gabow called the attacks on civilians barbaric and said suspects should be charged in court. “How can these people share information about the enemy if you are always attacking them and physically harming them? This is a counterproductive in the fight against terror,” he told journalists on Tuesday. Two months ago, there was uproar after a man in Sangailu was allegedly burnt on his buttocks, he was later treated in military base in Manda. (Edited by V. Graham)   