Kenyans online have dismissed Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko's attempt to defend the chaos that have dominated his reign at City Hall. Sonko had taken to Facebook to dismiss the lead story in the Star following the suspension of 16 county officers on Wednesday. The story looked at Sonko's reign at City Hall outlining his various actions that have more than often left many questioning his leadership style. On Wednesday, Sonko suspended Super CEC Charles Kerich who is the Finance Executive and Mohammed Dagane who is in charge of the Health Department. Since taking over in 2017, the two have been seen as Sonko's most trusted allies in his Cabinet. However, it is not clear when Kerich and Sonko's relationship started experiencing hitches after he appointed him the CEC for Finance in May 2019. While in Mombasa last month during a budget committee, Sonko blasted Kerich in public without mentioning his name when he was giving his opinion on the proposed Nairobi Finance Bill 2019. He said that one of his trusted CEC had joined 'cartelism' and have upgraded in making decisions without his consultation. Almost close to midnight on Wednesday, Sonko posted on Facebook defended the suspension and comparing it with those done by others including President Uhuru Kenyatta. "Why didn't the Star accuse President, Oparanya, Kimemia, Sang, Nyong'o etc of "reign of chaos" after firing their CECs (let alone suspension) which is within their constitutional prerogative?" Sonko wrote. His words were however not taken with the support that he probably expected with those commenting asking him to take responsibility for failures at City Hall. "Mike, how are you comparing our capital with some places like Nyandarua, sijui Nandi? Are you really serious? So far, it's like you have sacked every person you employed. You could be the problem, my brother. There are other ways of amending issues not sacking," Macharia wa Mwihaki wrote. Simon Kibiro noted; "Sonko, the king is naked but no one seems to have the courage to tell him so. The only way you can salvage yourself is to resign honourably, running of Nairobi County is way out of your depth." "I once said that no serious and self-respecting professional would/should agree to work with you. That is why I supported Dr Stella Bosire when you nominated her to your cabinet and she declined. If anyone wants her/his career and professionalism buried for good, the Nairobi county under Sonko is the perfect place," Edwin Chweya wrote. Fred De Greate wrote: "Sonko....we have seen the "Big and Mighty Fall" you are no exception... How can you suspend your minister for an investigation into the matters which are completely out of your "docket" education is under national government and have not seen Uhuru suspend Magoha... wacha kujiekelea kazi si yako... we know you are under investigation... have you stepped aside? Hizi side shows will not help nor save you." "Sonko is unable to govern but will use intimidation and insults to cover his incompetence as usual' -Njuguna Paul"This school has been there for years, why fire staff who have no idea it existed. Those who have been to Nairobi slums know very well we have hundreds of schools with this kind of structures," wrote Wairimu Irene. Memo Emmy noted; "Sonko, Primary school function is not devolved. kindly read the county government act and acts related to devolution. Don't just act in the pretense of " kukasirika". "Step down too....you are under investigation. Do you know why No sane professional will work with you??? It's because of your bullish way of doing things. Dr Stella Bosire turned down your offer coz u make one leave their lucrative and a promising career,u employ them, and within months you sack them. If you don't see a problem with that then u have a huge problem. Continue working with clowns who will not outshine you. When u see a promising soul who us likely to steal the show you start getting very scared. Shame!" Raphael Kariithi said. Laboso Vic posed; "How CECS Finance and health is related to poorly constructed classrooms?" "Your problem is sarakasi in which you do your things. And yes, there's a crisis in your theatrical administration! - Kibicho NdungataFuta mpaka ujifute mwenyewe incompetent governor only good at firing his juniors and recording women at hotels," Musubi David said.