Deputy President William Ruto has cautioned the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) team not to propose a system of Government that would isolate other communities in Kenya. Speaking on Sunday in Naromoru, Nyeri County Ruto warned against creating executive positions for a few and excluding other communities saying the move would breed division and ethnicity. “If we change the constitution so that about five communities get positions in Government, what will happen to the rest of the 39 communities in Kenya?” He posed. He said that the biggest problem facing the country was leaders who are not ready to accept the will of the people. “Are we deepening inclusion of all in the Government or are we entrenching and rubberstamping marginalization and exclusion?” He added. The DP said Kenyans would want a constitution that would make it possible for anyone, despite their status, to ascend to power. Kirinyaga woman rep Wambui Ngirici who was in attendance said Kenyans had grown weary of leaders who are time after time looking for openings to enrich themselves. The legislator said that the proposed review of the constitution should not be used as a platform to create jobs for politicians with no track-record in Kenya “Our problems as a country are not founded on our constitution. They are as a result of greed and selfishness,” Ngirici said. Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua said Kenyans have no problem backing the Building Bridges Initiative. The issue with the BBI however he said was that it failed to involve the public and is instead forced to Kenyans. “Our issue with it is that it failed to involve the public from the start as it was an invite-only deliberation. But importantly, the Initiative is being forced down our throats. If it is good, why compel us to have it?” Gachagua wondered. Other leaders in attendance were  Nyeri Governor Kahiga Mutahi, Kirinyaga Central MP Munene Wambugu , Gichugu MP  Gichimu Githinji , Ndia MP George Kariuki , Mwea MP Kabinga Wachira,Maragua MP  Mary Wa Maua , Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro, Nyandarua MP Faith Gitau,Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichungwa and Naivasha MP Jane Kihara. 