Bishops and Imams in the North Rift region have raised alarm over worsening abuse of drugs and alcohol among youth. The clerics say more than 1,000 youth in Eldoret town alone require urgent rehabilitation from drugs and alcohol. Chairman of the clergy Abubakar Bini said they will meet officials from Nationation Campaign Against Drug Abuse,  the county governments and other representatives to discuss the crisis. “The worsening situation as concerns abuse of drugs and alcohol among youth cannot be ignored unless we don’t need our future generations,” Bini said. Pastor James Kibet said the abuse of drugs among youth was now a crisis that required the leadership in the region to urgently meet and deal with the matter. “We have met as clergy but we now want to involve the governors, Nacada and other leaders so that we can come up with solutions,” Bini said. Meanwhile, youth representatives from the 47 counties have established a new lobby to help inspire youth to participate in leadership and politics. The lobby also seeks to empower young people to tackle challenges facing them including abuse of drugs and unemployment. The Generation 2morrow Alliance (G2 Alliance) representatives met in Kitale and accused Public Service, Youth Affairs and Gender Cabinet Secretary Margaret Kobia of failing to effectively tackle issues affecting youth. They want both the national and county government to deal with the youth crisis in the country especially as concerns employment, drugs and alcohol abuse and corruption among others. Trans Nzoia MCA Obed Mwale (Matisi ward) who is national chairman of the G2 Youth Alliance said successive governments in the country had failed to tackle youth problems. Mwale cited skyrocketing rates of unemployment, a poor education system, poor representation in both the county and national governments, drug abuse among others. Other representatives present included Brigit Siantei who is vice chairperson of the alliance, Moses Tisa (secretary general), Akivaga Jayuga (organising secretary), Dorris Matere (counties coordinator) and Rose Njeri who is national treasurer. “Our alliance seeks to address challenges that youths face and to inspire and support youths to join politics,” Mwale said. Tisa said they had forwarded to the government ten demands which they want dealt with as a start in tackling the youth crisis. They want President Kenyatta to declare unemployment a major crisis and allocate adequate resources to key sectors that will quickly create jobs for the younger generation. “We are also calling upon Parliament to fully devolve all matters concerning youths to county governments,” Mwale said. They also want the national and county governments to establish a compulsory and paid internship for college, polytechnic and university students. “In this case, the National Industrial Training Authority (NITA) should be abolished for not playing its role in developing an internship policy for youths apart from failing to tackle our training needs,” Siantei said. They have called for the establishment of fully equipped Vocational Training Centres in every ward throughout the country. The G2 Youth alliance also wants Parliament to pass legislation to remove the requirement that youths must have experience before being considered for entry-level jobs. Mwale said they also want decent and competitive remuneration for National Youth Service (NYS) recruits. The national and county governments should also be forced to adhere to the 30 per cent procurement opportunities made available to youths.