Kenya’s Samuel Njoroge has taken over the lead from compatriot Simon Njogu as the prestigious Uganda Open amateur competition entered the third and penultimate round. Njoroge shot 4 under par 68 to close the penultimate round on a gross total of 3 under. Njogu who was the leader after the first two rounds dipped to second place on a gross total of 1 under managed a round of 1 under par 71. Njogu lost control of the summit yesterday despite sinking three buddies in the front nine and one in the back nine for scores of 35 and 36. Njoroge score for the day got a massive boost with an eagle on the par 5 17th with two birdies on both nines. On Thursday he shot 4 under par 68 to cling on to the summit of the event curtain-raising next week’s main pros event. On Thursday Njogu stayed on top despite posting three over par 75 in the second round as action continued at the Lake Victoria Serena Golf Resort in Uganda. Unlike the opening round, birdies proved somewhat elusive to Njogu— one of the leading Kenyan amateur golfers— as he birdied the 17th having dropped shots at the third and fourth holes, and a third one at the eighth. Ugandan star player Ronald Otile is lying third on a level par gross total. Yesterday Otille fires an impressive round of 5under par 66 to stay three shots behind the leader. Another leading Kenyan amateur Daniel Nduva who has moved to joint second place with Railway’s Njoroge on one over par 145 dropped to joint third with Ottile. Nduva fired 1 under par 71 in a round that included six birdies. Nduva also shot an eagle in the second round. The final round will be played today. Last year, Ugandan Ronald Otile beat Kenya’s John Karichu by a stroke to bag his third Uganda Open title at the Entebbe course. Uganda’s Stephen Birungi and Deo Akope have also won it three times before since 1997. Legendary golfer Sadi Onito (RIP) is arguably Uganda’s greatest golfer of all time having won the event a record 12 times, a feat he achieved in 20 years from 1976-1996. Out of the five Ugandans who competed in Round One at Nyali, only Opio Onito made the cut and returned home with prize money. Other pros; Abbey Bagalana, Brian Toolit, Phillip Kasozi, and Denis Anguyo did not make any money from the tour and will hope to make amends together with the rest of the Ugandans in the next Safari Tour event on home soil next week. The professionals from the region and from all over Africa will get qualifying points to participate in the Magical Kenya Open. The Entebbe Open that will be held on October 30 to November 2, will also be part of the Safari Tour as well as Tanzania Open which will be the last leg.