A woman who sued former digital director Dennis Itumbi for child neglect has accused him of trying to have her abort the child. The mother of the child, through lawyer Enricah Dulo, claims that Itumbi unsuccessfully tried to convince her to abort the pregnancy when he discovered that she was pregnant. Lawyer Dulo says the blogger has been cruel to the woman and the minor who is alleged to be his child. “On October 26, 2018, Itumbi invited the applicant for a meeting where he again tried to convince her to abort. He served her a drink and immediately she left the meeting, she started bleeding,” lawyer says in court documents. The woman was rushed to Jacaranda maternity hospital where a medical doctor asked if she was trying to abort the foetus.  This made her suspicious of the drink Itumbi had earlier served her as she had not eaten anything after the meeting. She adds that Itumbi has blocked her and she is unable to engage with him on any meaningful communication in regard to the welfare of the child. The woman wants the court to compel him to provide interim monthly maintenance of Sh50,000 for the minor pending hearing and determination of the suit. The money will cater for food, clothing, medicine and house help salary. She claims that Itumbi deserted the minor from birth and has refused to provide any form of maintenance whatsoever knowing fully well that she is an orphan and had to stop working before delivering off the minor. She also argues that she is without any form of maternity pay. She wants Itumbi to also provide his national identity so that his name can be included in the minor’s certificate of birth. The lawyer argues that Itumbi ended his relationship with the woman sometime in August 2018 when she informed him that she was pregnant with his child. “The applicant has unsuccessfully tried to engage the defendant to provide maintenance for the minor but he has refused to attend the mediation meetings and instead sending his friend Gitau instead, who is not even an advocate,” Dulo states. The woman wants to be granted actual and legal custody of the minor and Itumbi to be granted access to the minor and for him to take out private medical insurance for the minor and the mother. The case will be heard on September 26 and in case Itumbi fails to attend court on that day, the court will proceed to issue the orders in his absence notwithstanding.