Sections of Ukambani politicians have dismissed calls seeking to amend the constitution. The legislators led by Machakos Town MP Victor Munyaka on Friday said the constitution cannot be done at  the expense of the development of the country. They said it was unfortunate that the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) team has resolved not to put the interest of the people at heart. The MPS criticised the Initiative for proposing the Prime Minister's position as a solution to the country's inclusivity challenge. Munyaka was in the company of Nimrod Mbai (Kitui East), Rachael Mbai (Kitui South), Fabiani Kyule (Kangundo) and Vincent Musyoka (Mwala). They accompanied Deputy President William Ruto during a development tour of Kitui East. The MPs said the solution to political challenges facing Kenya is good leadership and equitable distribution of resources. Kyule whilee hitting at the BBI team said the Initiative was formed to unite and reconcile Kenyans rather than pursue a change of the Constitution. “We are not fighting anyone; but we do not need a Prime Minister. We need development,“ he said. On his side Musyoka argued that creating a Prime Minister’s position would neither bring inclusivity nor promote equity. He said, "We need a good and just leader not a tribal one. This country cannot afford to have 42 Presidents to represent every tribe". Munyaka in his remarks said it was counter-productive for the country to change the constitution every time someone loses an election.. “When will we be stable as a country if every administration wants to change the constitution,” he said. Instead of focusing on creating positions for a few individuals, Kitui South MP Rachel Mbai said the team needs to focus on service delivery. “Kenyans cannot be burdened by unnecessary political seats,” she said, adding that “if we pay for these seats, where will we get money for development?" Her sentiments were echoed by her  Kitui counterpart who asked the BBI team to concentrate on the unity of Kenyans. Ruto in his remarks made a passionate appeal to politicians not to put their own interests ahead of those of Kenyans. He said it was regrettable that politicians were still discussing about leadership positions years after elections instead of addressing the needs of the people. “After polls, we should not be talking about leaders, political positions and political parties. Instead, we should focus on the needs of the people." At the same time, the Deputy President asked leaders to set aside their political differences and unite to confront the challenges facing the country. “Our country will not develop if we allow divisive and tribal politics to prevail,” he added. During the development tour, Dr Ruto launched the Last Mile Connectivity programme in Kitui East constituency and later inspected the progress of the construction of Sh100-million Kitui East Technical Training Institute. He said the Government had set aside Sh2 billion for the construction of 42 kilometres of roads in Kitui county. “We will also spend Sh800 million to connect more than 20,000 residents to power in Kitui County,” he said.