National women’s football team ‘Harambee Starlets’ captain Dorcas Shikobe said the gaps left by former experienced players were not felt as Kenya won against visiting Malawi 3-0 to proceed to the third round of the Olympic Qualifiers at the Kenyatta Stadium, Machakos yesterday. The Oserian defender noted every player rose to the occasion and was glad they have a chance to proceed to the next stage as she remained optimistic. of qualifying for the Olympics. She said, “ "We played as a unit and every player was hungry for a win. We are confident of making it to the Olympics. The new players are just as good as the other squads I have played within the national team before, they are giving it their all.” Her sentiments come after the majority of players she participated with in previous events failed to receive call up to the national outfit among them Neddy Atieno, Mary Kinuthia, Esse Akida, Wendy Acheing,  Cheris Avilia  and  Elizabeth Ambogo among others. Diminutive Thika Queens forward  Mwanahalima Adam scored a brace in the  77th and 87th minute to add to the earlier first half goal from Cynthia Shilwatso(18th) minute. With the yesterday win,   the East Africans will now lay in wait for the winner between Gabon and Ghana. The side coached by David Ouma had last week succumbed to hosts Malawi 3-2 away during the first leg and needed a win of any kind to proceed to the next stage. With the yesterday win, the national team won the second stage on 5-3 aggregate. Adam, on the other hand, said, “I’m happy for the win and we can only hope for the best going forward. It is unfortunate fans couldn't be here to celebrate the win with us but there is always the next time.” Ouma noted; “I thank the players for the efforts they put in this win.  They showed mental strength to make the comeback after we failed to make a comeback away.  Our defence organisation in the match was very good.  We missed a few chances but generally, I am impressed with the overall display of the team.” 