The arrival of Zedekiah ‘Zico’ Otieno from Germany will inspire KCB to extend their perfect run in the 2019-2020 Kenya Premier League season when they play newbies Kisumu All-Stars tomorrow at the Kenyatta Stadium, Machakos. KCB began the season with a convincing 3-0 win away to 2006 league champions Sony Sugar and will be plotting to scale to the apex of the log as well as pile more miseries on the debutants who lost 2-0 to Ulinzi Stars. Zico, who has been in Germany in the last three weeks for a coaching course, is set to jet in today and according to his assistant Godfrey Oduor, the club will seek to welcome their boss in a style despite missing their shot stopper Peter Manyika. “The boss will jet in today and we will be keen to welcome him with a win. We have been in communication with him, prepared the team in line with his philosophy and we hope we will extend our perfect run. It’s unfortunate we will miss Mwanyika but we have Allan Owiny who will replace him.” In other matches lined up for the day, eleven-time champions Tusker will be out to redeem themselves from a 5-2 drubbing at the hands of Gor Mahia when they play Mathare United at Machakos. Mathare, on the other hand, will be gunning for their first win of the season after playing Bandari to a barren draw in the first round. Four-time champions Ulinzi Stars have their guns trained on downing Sofapaka at Afraha Stadium while Nzoia Sugar will host Sony Sugar at Sudi Stadium. Posta Rangers will be eyeing their second win of the season when they tackle Kakamega Homeboyz at the Kenyatta Stadium Machakos tomorrow. Rangers caged Sofapaka 2-1 in the opener and will come up against an opponent with a similar ambition following their 1-0 win over AFC Leopards. On the same day, Leopards will host Kariobangi Sharks at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani, hoping to redeem themselves from their loss to Homeboyz. The encounter was earlier on scheduled for Nyayo Stadium but the venue was confirmed unfit to host league matches. Leopards are expected to unleash the duo of Mark Makwatta who claimed the 2016 top scorer’s gong after signing him from Kuwait’s Al Nasr and Paul Were who renewed his contract with the club but missed the opener. Meanwhile, the rescheduled clash between Gor Mahia and Chemelil Sugar will be played on Thursday at the Moi Stadium Kisumu while Bandari will confront Zoo Kericho at Mbaraki Stadium on Wednesday. The two duels were shelved to allow Gor and Bandari honour their continental matches.