Six people have so far been cleared to participate in Kibra Parliamentary by-election set to be held on November 7. They are Eliud Owalo (ANC), Editar Ochieng (Ukweli Party) and Hamida Mala (UGM). Others are Khamisi Butichi (Ford Kenya) an Elijah Abasa (Narc Kenya) and Fridah Kerubo (Independent). IEBC County election Manager Mele Eroo said they expect to clear 24 aspirants - 12 independents and 14 parties sponsored - by 5 pm on Tuesday. Raila's party ODM on Saturday chose Bernard Okoth, popularly known as Imran, to fly the ODM flag in the by-election. Okoth is the brother of the late Kibra MP Ken Okoth, who died last month. He was wildly popular and his brother is likely to inherit much of that enthusiasm. Imran manoeuvred his own way out and polled 4,382 votes. His closest rival,  Dagoretti High School Principal Peter Orero, garnered a distant 1,218 votes. John Otieno was third with 906 votes, Ben Musungu fourth with 524 votes, while Chris Odhiambo garnered 417 votes come in fifth. Tony Ogola got 381 votes, Stephen Okello got 228, Brian Owino  127 votes, while Reuben Ojijo got 52 votes and Eric Obayi got 45. Raila on Monday will meet all 10 aspirants who took part in the ODM nominations in what is seen as a strategy to soothe egos and quell any falling out threats. Former Harambee Stars international McDonald Mariga was on September 3, announced as the Jubilee Party candidate for the Kibra by-election. During his unveiling at the party's headquarters, National Elections Board chairman Andrew Musangi described Mariga as a man of impeccable character and credentials who has had "enduring connections with the people of Kibra". Ruto has pledged to camp in Kibra in the coming days to drum up support for his candidate, raising the stakes in the race. Amani National Congress's Musalia Mudavadi has fielded former Raila aide Eliud Owalo while Ford Kenya is fronting Khamisi Butichi. The entries by ANC and Ford Kenya have triggered sibling rivalry and the moribund Nasa coalition and Jubilee are likely to exploit that.