ODM leader Raila Odinga has cautioned Migori governor Okoth Obado against trying to divide the Luos politically through clans living in the four counties in Nyanza. Raila said that it was absurd that Obado who hails from the Kanyamkago Clan in Migori and Homa Bay counties, has been pushing division between Central region Luos, in Kisumu and Siaya counties, against South Region Luos. In an open rebuke to the governor, the ODM leader said that the Kanyamkago clan hails from the Uyoma clan in Siaya and all Luos originated through Siaya. Odinga was speaking on Friday at the funeral of Joseph Ogutu Magaka, of St. John Everlasting Gospel Church in West Kanyamkago Ward. Also in attendance were Ida Odinga, Obado, Senator Ochillo Ayacko, Woman Representative Pamela Odhiambo and Uriri MP Mark Nyamita among others. However, Obado distanced himself the from rebellion in Nyanza despite earlier perceived overtures towards Deputy President William Ruto. Obado has on several occasions hosted Ruto in Migori and has publically questioned the handshake between Raila and President Uhuru Kenyatta. He has also castigated the referendum push by the Building Bridges Initiative. “Ignore what others tell you about me, I support the handshake 100 per cent. I also support the handshake a hundred per cent,” Obado said. Obado recently complained he had been kicked out of Raila’s inner circle saying he has been “left out on the journey to Canaan". The Migori Governor has been missing in the orange party events and has been involved in public spats with Ayacko, Nyatike MP Tom Odege and Suna West MP Peter Masara. “Next time you (Raila) have meetings please invite me too, you have left me out completely that is why others had a chance of gossiping negatively about me,” Obado said. Ida challenged Obado to call a county leadership meeting to chat the way forward for unity in Migori. “If I say here today we have a meeting, even those present will claim they never heard, so I will use the mass media,” Obado said. The late Magaka was eulogised as a spiritual advisor to the Odingas from the time the family was in detention and in leadership by always leading prayers altar at the home each Wednesday. Magaka died of cancer while in the USA.