Manchester United will not lower their demands for Paul Pogba in the January transfer window, according to reports. The midfielder was a key target for Zinedine Zidane in the summer but the Real Madrid manager was left frustrated after attempts to bring him to Spain fizzled out. Real will have to wait until January, when the transfer window re-opens, to make another move for the United man. According to Spanish outlet Sport, while Zidane’s position is less secure than it was in the summer after a tough start, he and Real both want to make another move for Pogba in the January window. United are reported to be aware that any situation around Pogba could become toxic if a move is not forthcoming. But they are insistent that they will not let him leave for less than the £179million valuation they had in the summer. Real president Florentino Perez recently insisted Zidane’s squad was strong enough, telling Marca: ‘We have never invested so much in players even though we already had a great squad.” Meanwhile, Borussia Dortmund have confirmed Manchester United did hold a meeting about signing Jadon Sancho in March. The England winger, who scored twice on Tuesday night as Gareth Southgate’s side overcame Kosovo, was identified as a target for the Old Trafford side ahead of the summer. Dortmund’s sporting director Michael Zorc has now confirmed there was a meeting held with United’s chiefs as part of the Inside Borussia Dortmund documentary series on Amazon. Episode three includes a conversation between Zorc, Matthias Sammer, Sebastian Kehl and Dortmund’s chairman Hans-Joachim Watzke. Zorc makes it clear that there were talks over a possible move but insists Sancho has no intention of leaving Germany in the summer. He said: “A hot topic right now is Sancho and Manchester United. Both his discussions with the club and mine with the consultants. “A meeting did take place. Manchester United invited the consultant. “But according to what I know, the consultant told the club that no matter how much money they offer, we won’t let him go this summer. “But the player also has no intention of taking that step this summer.” Reports towards the end of last month suggested Ole Gunnar Solksjaer was still keen on signing the 19-year-old.