Muslims are deeply offended by the High Court decision that Rastafarianism is a religion just like any other and ought to be respected. They said on Monday that the hijab worn by schoolgirls deserves similar protection in non-Christian schools and some accuse the Judiciary of bias in its rulings. The  Kenya Supreme Court on Friday overturned a decision that allowed hijab in Christian schools and said each school can develop its own dress code. National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale on Monday angrily accused the Judiciary of discrimination. Duale said it's unfortunate the Supreme Court declined to allow Muslim schoolgirls to wear the hijab, while the Hgh Courtallowed Rastafarians with dreadlocks in school. Speaking in Garissa Town, when he presided over the graduation of tailoring students, Duale said, "It is now clear that the courts in Kenya are applying double standards on the issue of the freedom of worship as enshrined in the Constitution. The ruling barring Muslim girls from wearing the headscarf was not only provocative but also demeaning and undermining to the rights of Muslims for no apparent reason, Duale said. He said the Constitution gives every Kenyan the right to worship, noting that Muslims will always wear the hijab as ordered in their religion. “It's shameful for the Supreme Court to disallow students from wearing hijab while the High Court has ruled otherwise in the Rastafarian case," Duale said. “Children of Muslims should be allowed to wear hijab, the children of Kalasinga must be allowed to have their turbans because that is their right,” he said The Garissa branch of the Supreme Council of Kenya Muslim (Supkem) chairman Abdullahi Salat said that not allowing Muslim students to practice their religion freely might lead to radicalisation. The remarks follow last Friday's court ruling that Olympic High School, Nairobi, broke the law by asking a minor to shave her dreadlocks, holding Rastafarianism is like any other religion. The High Court in January ordered the school to admit the student pending determination of the case. The Supreme Court thought otherwise. (Edited by V. Graham)    