President Uhuru Kenyatta has orders the immediate cancellation of the contract on the Sh22.2 billion Kimwarer Dam project. Uhuru also gave the green light on the Arror Dam project whose height was scaled down to 60 metres from the original design height of 96 metres which was found to be unviable. "The optimized dam will be technically viable since it will only require about 250 acres of land and cost Sh15.4 billion with power and Sh13.1 billion without power. The dam was previously estimated to cost Sh28.3 billion," State House spokesperson Kanze Dena said in a statement. This follows a report by a technical committee made up of Quantity Surveyor Julius Matu, Eng Benjamin Mwangi, and Eng John Muiruri. The technical committee was chaired by Principal Secretary for Infrastructure Prof Paul Maringa. The report indicated that the Sh22.2 billion Kimwarer dam had been overpriced and that the project was neither technically nor financially viable. Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich and his Principal Secretary Kamau Thugge were forced to step aside in July after they were charged over the dams. DPP Noordin Haji charged Rotich, Thugge and 26 others accused of having flouted procurement rules and committed illegalities in the Arror and Kimwarer dams projects. Uhuru tasked the team to assess the viability of the two dam projects and file a report within 30 days. The Technical Committee reviewed the designs, technical sustainability and financial proposals of both dams and established that The committee also established that no current reliable feasibility study had been conducted on the dam project. According to the committee, the only feasibility study carried out on a similar project twenty-eight years ago had revealed a geological fault across the 800-acre project area, which would have negative structural effects on the proposed dam. It was also established that the project area is settled and would require compensation of displaced residents. According to the technical design of the Kimwarer Dam, the water supply mechanism would involve pumping, an aspect the Technical Committee found to be unsustainable in terms of operations and maintenance costs. Further, the Technical Committee established that the pumping would make the project financially unsustainable in the long run. It is because of the study made by the Technical Committee that they recommended to the President that the Kimwarer Dam project be discontinued. The Technical Committee was satisfied that the Arror Multipurpose Dam Project is economically viable but noted that it was also overpriced. As such, the committee recommended to the President a cost rationalization plan that will ensure the project is implemented cost-effectively without affecting its performance and output. "As part of the cost rationalization plan, the Technical Committee has prepared a new Bills of Quantities (BQ) for a modified dam with its height scaled down to 60 metres from the original design height of 96 metres which was found to be unviable," the statement read. 