The High Court in Eldoret has ordered Governor Jackson Mandago to stop the planned increase of land rates and negotiate with landowners. Justice Millicent Odeny gave the Uasin Gishu county government 14 days to settle the matter out of court to avoid a long legal dispute. Should the landowners and county government fail to agree within the stipulated period the matter will be heard from October 24. Landowners have opposed the plan to increase the rates by 600 per cent, but Mandago says the county had only carried out valuation of land after which it would carry out public participation. Justice Odeny said in her ruling in the case filed by landowners that it was possible for Mandago’s administration to agree with the landowners on the way forward. “The status quo will remain and if the two parties fail to reach an agreement within 14 days the matter will be returned to court for hearing and determination on October 24,” she ruled. The judge directed that the Law Society of Kenya North Rift chapter be include as an interested party in the case which has been filed by more than 300 landowners against the county government. The landowners representatives led by Kipkorir Menjo and Chepkok Moira filed the case arguing that the county had already carried out a valuation of land without carrying public participation. “The law requires that we should be involved but that has not been done and the ongoing process that will lead to exorbitant increase in land rates is not acceptable,” Moira said. The landowners want the valuation roll released by the county government to be declared null and void. The Uasin Gishu county assembly also passed a motion stopping the process. Sergoit MCA David Keitany told the assembly that there was no public participation conducted on the proposed legislation on land rates. Under the new valuation roll a half-acre plot in Kimumu that previously attracted Sh3,000 a year has been increased to Sh24,000. In Pioneer where landowners usually pay Sh3,400 annually for a quarter an acre, they will now part with Sh90,000. The same average increment of about 600 per cent will be applicable in all parts of the town. Mandago on Wednesday however dismissed reports on the increment as rumours being spread by busybodies. He said increment of land rates was a lengthy process and that nothing had been implemented so far. “We have to do public participation and all processes have to be approved by the county executive and the assembly. We are yet to reach that stage and landowners should not be misled,” he said.