Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru has said Kenyans are not ready for another president from the Kikuyu community. Waiguru said another Kikuyu presidency would fuel the feelings of exclusion from the country's top leadership by other communities. “Let’s be honest, Kenya has many communities and one or two cannot continue dominating the leadership of this country,” Waiguru said. The governor said Kenyans should embrace the Building Bridges Initiative since its proposals are meant to unite the country. “The BBI is a solution to ending political violence each and every electoral circle,” Waiguru said. She spoke at Kerugoya Level 5 Hospital when she gave her annual status of the county report. Waiguru said it is time for the Mt Kenya politicians to support a candidate from another region. The county boss said Kenyans are fed up with leaders whose wealth is unaccountable for. She accused the Kirinyaga Woman Representative Wangui Ngirici of sabotaging the health sector in the county by engineering a strike at the hospital in April. “When the time for politics comes we will be ready to face them [detractors], and I want to sound a warning that no one will disrupt me from delivering my mandate as governor,” she said. Waiguru said Uhuru is the Mt Kenya spokesperson and the region will follow his direction in 2022. “When the country was being torn apart after the 2017 elections, our President reached out to the ODM leader,” the county boss said. She urged Kenyans not to be hoodwinked by Ekuru  Aukot's  Punguza Mizigo Bill since it has no interests of Wanjiku at heart and is anti-devolution. “When someone comes up with a Bill to reduce the number of constituencies and county governments is that person in his right mind? We here are agitating for Mwea to be divided into two,” she said. She further said it was time for the country to go into a referendum to expand the executive and reduce the number of nominated members of Parliament. Waiguru who was in the company of her deputy Peter Ndambiri urged Kirinyaga residents to enrol to the county's healthcare drive dubbed Kiricare. In the initiative, each household will pay Sh1,700 to get free health services from the county's hospitals. (edited by O. Owino)