Physically challenged rally driver Nikhil Sachania is determined to keep fighting for top ten positions in the 2019 Kenya National Rally Championship. Nikhil finished ninth overall on KCB Nanyuki Rally, second in SPV class and Division 1 in his Mitsubishi Lancer Evolution 10. “The plan is to keep pushing for top 10 positions and build on our championship aspirations. Nanyuki was a technical rally which called for precision driving. The stages are always fun to drive especially with the serene nature in the Loldaigas. A big thank you to the team, family, friends and fans!” Nikhil said. He is among drivers, who will be taking part in the sixth round of the KNRC, the KCB Guru Nanak Rally slated for October 20. “We are leading the KNRC SPV class at the moment. We hope to keep that going till the end and reclaim the title again,” he said. Nikhil, who is also the  2018 KNRC Division 3 and SPV champion, has been one of the most coveted drivers in the series and in 2014, won the SPV (one of several racing categories, which allows entrants to use modified cars to race) Rally Championship. That same year, he was awarded the top award in the disability category in Soya Awards. “I am sitting with a new navigator (Deep Patel). This is his first season navigating, so we are getting more confident with each rally,” added Nikhil. Nikhil returned to the sport which nearly killed him some years back. The quad bike accident happened in Athi River when he was training with Shazar Anwar and Zane Young trying to get ready for his first event. He hit a rock at high speed and landed head first. The impact shattered his spine. But the Nairobi-based driver has always wanted to race no matter what. Nikhil describes the 2018 season as one of his best. “The 2018 season was one of my best years. It was a challenging one with the new car and the increased pace. Overall, it has been a really fun season. 2019 is proving to very successful as well,” he added. Nikhil has previously driven a Fiat Grande Punto S2000. Asked about the difference between the S2000 and his current Evo 10 which is non-homologated, Nikhil added: “The Evo is pretty straight forward. We had some challenges setting up the gearbox for rally purpose last year but it has been resolved. It is a Group ‘N’ spec with the only addition of the hand controls and the SST transmission. Compared to the S2000, the EVO X is a turbo-powered car and the gearbox is a major difference.”