The Kenya Forest Service has deployed vehicles worth Sh25 million in its quest to improve operational efficiency in forest protection. Chief Conservator of Forests Julius Kamau oversaw the flagging off of the four vehicles at KFS headquarters in Karura. Kamau said the Toyota Land Cruisers will be used in forest surveillance and patrols in a number of forests. "The vehicles will improve the capacity of the Security and Protection Division of the service in the protection of forests which continue to be under pressure of destruction," Kamau said. The vehicles which have been customised for forest operational purposes were acquired at Sh 25,840,000. Kamau said the vehicles will be deployed to the Nyeri and Embu bases to help in the protection of Mt Kenya and Aberdares forest ecosystems. Others will be deployed to Bodhei Operational Camp in Boni Forest in Lamu county and Kipini/Witu in Kilifi county. The official, who was flanked by KFS commandant Alex Lemarkoko, said forests have been ravaged by fires. "Protection of forests is critical as we seek to increase the forest cover to 10 per cent by 2022," he said. Managing forest fires needs a lot of resources as it is capital intensive, Kamau said. "We have lost more than 50,000 hectares of forests to fires. In 2012 alone, 10,000 hectares were destroyed by forest fires." Kamau added, "Last year, we lost 2,000 hectares. Eastern, Central and Coast have been identified to require quick intervention." The new vehicles will be manned by KFS rangers, he said. However, communities will also be roped in to help. Lemarkoko said March is the fire season, citing human activities. "Escape fire from farms, burning to conceal illegal activities, hunters and arsonists are main causes. Last year, we arrested over 40 arsonists," he said. The commandant said fire incidents were at the Eastern sides of the country. Early this year, a fire destroyed 24,710 acres of moorland within Mt Kenya National Park. The worst-affected parts are in Kirinyaga and Chogoria. In Menengai, the fire destroyed 100 acres. It also destroyed 40 acres of Seng’alo Forest, Uasin Gishu. In 2017, more than 17,000 acres of the Aberdares Forest was destroyed by fire. Another 220 acres of indigenous trees were destroyed in Menengai Forest. The flames were fanned by winds, raising fears the fire could spread to the neighbouring homes. In March 2015, more than 300 acres of the forest were destroyed. In 2015, a fire destroyed 4,000 acres of the Maasai Mau Forest. The forest is the source of Mara River. More than 10 families were left homeless and fled to Narok county. Edited by R.Wamochie