A member of a popular church in Busia collapsed and died during the service last Sunday. What was more shocking was the fact that the bishop attempted to conceal the death. Accompanied by other leaders of the church, the bishop rushed to the police to report the matter and seek permission to move the body to a morgue nearby. Interestingly, the police allowed them to take the woman’s body to Busia Referral Hospital Mortuary without bothering to ascertain the circumstances that led to the death. Officers did not even visit the scene of the incident. Local journalists got wind of the death but the bishop prevented them from entering the church. He even threatened them with dire consequences if they reported about the death. Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai should perhaps dig into the matter and tell us if inaction by his officers was in order. Construction of a high-rise building in Westlands area in Nairobi is in top gear yet the National Construction Authority had identified the project for demolition. When the perimeter wall of iron sheets at the site was marked 'X,' work stopped immediately but after several months, the area is now a beehive of activity. Heavy machinery, including Caterpillars and earth-movers, have been deployed to the site and work is going on as if nothing had happened. The authority should perhaps tell us what changed to allow the project to proceed. A nominated female senator has set tongues wagging after she went out on a date with two of her male colleagues. The legislator dined with two of her counterparts at a popular joint in Kitui where senators have converged for the second Senate Mashinani function. The female lawmaker could be seen making advances to a well-built colleague and had maybe hoped to vanish with him later in the night but the other male legislator never blinked and was perhaps hoping he would be the one taking the lady to her room, or his. When works on Kagundo Road started, excitement was in the air. In fact, some thought another six-lane superhighway was in the offing. The contractor demolished everything that was standing on the road reserve as the excavators moved in. The contractor paved the entire road reserve, which could accommodate a state-of-the art superhighway. But as it turns out, only the existing road has been re-carpeted. Those whose structures were demolished are regrouping and erecting new ones. Some are now daring the contractor because they believe nothing serious will happen. Residents want Kenya National Highways Authority director-general Peter Mundinia to clarify.