Deputy President William Ruto has maintained that any plans to amend the constitution through the back door will fail. Ruto on Sunday said such plans can only go through if the views of Kenyans are put into serious considerations. Ruto was speaking during an Inter-denominational Church service at Kidundu stadium and Ivona grounds, Sabatia Constituency, Vihiga County. He later conducted a funds drive for the churches. The DP said those with such plans to amend the constitution without involving Kenyans must learn from Ekuru Aukot's Punguza Mzigo Initiative which has received massive rejection across county assemblies. "If they are looking for ways to change the constitution, they must learn from the collapse of Punguza Mizigo Initiative that did not take into account the views of the ordinary people," Ruto said. Ruto rather vowed to ensure the voice of the ordinary Kenyans are heard if the  Building Bridges team will present such recommendations. " I want to ask all these people looking for these initiatives to realise that Kenyans are awake and I will make sure that their voice is heard," "We cannot purport to change the constitutions in boardrooms or hotels. No shortcuts, no roundabouts, no corners, no mpango wa kando," Ruto added. Ruto said it is no longer possible to ignore ordinary Kenyans and think your ideas will go anywhere. He said ordinary people in this country know the power they have and want to determine their destiny. Ruto further said the scheme behind the constitution amendments is nothing but to create more positions for political failures. He said it is unfortunate that Kenya as a country have leaders who are not mindful of their constituents but themselves. "It cannot be that after every election we want to change the constitution to favor those who did not make. We cannot be just talking about leaders alone year in year out. We need to focus on how to upgrade the lives of akina Wanjiku and Nafula," Ruto said. Ruto said the BBI team should be cautious with any plans seeking to amend the constitution or brace for difficult time as such will follow suit as punguza mzigo idea. Punguza Mizigo Initiative fronted by the Third way Alliance party leader Ekuru Aukot has been rejected some counties on the grounds that it is biased. Kiambu county rejected the Bill, saying that the reduction of constituencies would lead to less representation of bigger counties. According to the committee, the proposal to increase allocation to counties and limit the number of commissioners was commendable. While addressing the Garissa residents during the Embrace rally on Saturday, Homa Bay Woman Representative Gladys Wanga urged the locals to reject it and wait for BBI recommendations. " Mambo ya Punguza Mizigo inazimwa hapa Garissa. Garissa wanasema wanaongoja ile report ya BBI," She said. (Anything to do with Punguza Mzigo will be failed here because Garissa is waiting for the recommendations by the BBI team).