How very kind of Inter Milan’s ultras to clarify for Romelu Lukaku, or any other black person who might be confused by all the strange noises, what exactly constitutes racism in Italian football. Not monkey chants, apparently. Not a crude comparison between a human being and an ape. This, as experienced by Lukaku in Cagliari at the weekend - and many black players at the stadium before him - is merely a form of respect. Warped respect, you might think, given that it seeks to dehumanise the individual; to publicly humiliate, antagonise and intimidate him. But these abhorrent sounds, these degrading taunts, the ultras were at pains to explain, were merely ‘ways’ deployed by Italian fans ‘to help our team’. No consideration of how racially abusing a black opponent might make any black player wearing your team’s shirt feel. No understanding of how isolating and bewildering such an action might be. Indeed, far from deploring events in Cagliari, the cretins who claimed to have welcomed Lukaku to Milan - as if he should be grateful for this simple courtesy - did not rule out using the same ‘ways’ to unsettle black players when they visited the San Siro. They even admitted using racist chanting to unnerve black opponents in the past. But they weren’t racists, the Inter ultras made clear. Heavens, no. And neither were the crowd in Cagliari. They just did a very good impression of them. Now you might think it is black people who get to define racism, not white knuckleheads, but this is what happens when an entire football culture is too timid to confront the issue and its protagonists head-on. Italy has been soft on racism in football for decades now. What unfolded in Cagliari should not have surprised anyone given that, throughout Italian football, fans can commit racist outrages without significant consequence. For too long, Serie A has pandered to the ultras and their corrupted concept of loyalty and service. When Moise Kean, formerly of Juventus, was similarly abused at Cagliari last season, the authorities decided the chanting had ‘objectively limited reference’, whatever that means. No action has been taken since Lukaku was targeted on Sunday, either, with disciplinary representatives requesting more evidence before making a ruling. Even were Cagliari charged, considering these are repeat offences, history suggests nothing of note would be done. Atalanta were fined just over £30,000 in 2014 when very finite evidence of racism - bananas thrown at Milan players Kevin Constant and Nigel de Jong - was apparent. So the authorities are to blame. Yet for self-serving, specious, straight-up racist drivel, the statement-cum-lecture from Inter’s Curva Nord on Facebook is unsurpassed. ‘“We are really sorry you thought what happened in Cagliari was racist,” Lukaku was told, as if he had missed the wider subtleties of a bunch of white guys making monkey noises in his direction. “You have to understand Italy is not like many other North European countries where racism is a real problem.” And on it went, ripe with precious self-justifications and ludicrous attempts to occupy the high ground, the pig-ignorant statements piling up and up. “Please consider this attitude of Italian fans as a form of respect... they are afraid of you for the goals you might score against their teams, and not because they hate you or they are racist.” So, again, Lukaku should be flattered to be compared to a chimp. It’s praise, really. Doesn’t he get it, the stupid, thick, n-. Let’s stop right there. For, at the end, the racists reveal who the real victims are. It’s not the black people they have insulted and demeaned. It’s them. The ultras. The poor little ultras. Oh, the pity of it. Won’t they think of the ultras? “When you declare that racism is a problem to be fought in Italy you just help the repression against all football fans, including us...’ Lukaku is informed. ‘Please help us to clarify what racism really is and that Italian fans are not racist.” Now this elucidation might be difficult for Lukaku, who has moved to a new club and might not want to take on its most vocal, most fervent, most — ahem— racist element so early in his career. He probably thought his statement deploring the behaviour in Cagliari was uncontroversial and won’t have imagined any group, certainly not one ostensibly on his side, would attempt to justify what he had heard. Yet if it is clarification that is needed, here goes. Monkey chants are racist. If you make that noise at a football match, so are you. If nobody is dealing with you for it, so are they. So do not confuse yourself with a true supporter, an intellectual thinker or even an observer with a valuable contribution to make. You do not have ‘ways’, you are not ‘helping your team’, your rationalisations are entirely worthless. And if every black Inter Milan player refused to take the field in the next match against Udinese on September 14, and every week there-after until there was at least an apology, would the Curva Nord get the message through their thick, ignorant, er, racist heads? Maybe, maybe not. But surely, by now, it’s worth a try.