Tempers flared in Meru after politicians disagreed over the expenditure of Sh152 million meant for Kiingirwa water project. Tigania West MP John Mutunga, Athwana MCA Victor and former PS Peter Akunu nearly exchanged blows after a meeting to discuss the project turned chaotic. The crisis meeting held at Kaongo A Kanyoro in Tigania West featured accusations that project money had been embezzled. MP Mutunga accused the MCA of undermining him as the people's representative. Mutunga also accused Akunu of tarnishing his name through lies and propaganda. The legislator said Akunu had stopped residents from fetching water from a borehole within the area. Mutunga asked Akanu to disconnect water from the community borehole directed to his farm. "I have never talked about Akunu but today I will expose him to the public. Investigations to arrest the culprits who stole the project's money are ongoing. They must be completed for us to allocate more money. The leaders here should declare whether they want to involve me or other leaders and sideline my interventions," the angry MP said. "The tanks at his (Akunu) home were issued by Plan International. The water that was connected is only utilized by one family of Peter,  I want to tell you,  residents are suffering. The project is for community and we must disconnect water running to his home." Akunu, who is a member of the project committee, dismissed Mutunga's claims as insults. Former MP David Karithi said it was disrespectful of the MP to think he was the only think tank in the constituency and demanded involvement of all stakeholders in the Kiingirwa water project. "What is wrong if the project's leaders seek intervention from Woman Rep Kawira Mwangaza, if they write to EACC and DCI or to the governor and any other elected leader? He should respect Akunu and other leaders," Karithi said. Politician Jim Muchui (Karithi's opponent) said the meeting was politically organised to malign him and the MP only because the MP invited Deputy President William Ruto to Muchui's wedding. He said the water project had become a political tool used to incite residents against their representatives. Early this year, Athwana residents protested against the alleged disappearance of Sh152 million for the Kiingirwa water project. David Ntongai, a member of the project committee, said it was started in 1988 and funds had been being allocated but the project has never benefited residents.