The MCAs' budgetary autonomy will soon be realised after the senators on Tuesday promised to amend the law to empower the ward representatives. The Senate Finance and Budget Committee resolved to propose an amendment of the Public Finance Management Act, 2012 to give the ward reps financial independence. Committee chairman Mohamed Mohamud said the MCAs are not effectively over-sighting the county governments because they depend on the executive for money. “The committee has been planning to amend the PFM Act to review a section of the law to give the assemblies financial autonomy,” Mohamud said. The county legislators have been pushing for amendments to the law to compel the National Treasury to send funds directly to county assemblies. Currently, the assemblies must get approval from the executive when placing requisition for funds to the Controller of Budget. Yesterday, Kitui and Makueni MCAs complained to the Mohamud-led committee that their primary work of oversight and legislation has been hampered by the ‘dependency syndrome.’ “This is a problem that cuts across all the county assemblies. We are supposed to have challenged the law a long time ago,” Mohamud said. All the 67 senators and Speaker Kenneth Lusaka are in Kitui for the second Senate Mashinani session. “Lack of financial autonomy has really affected our work. Everything has to be signed by the finance executive. We have to disclose to the CEC the intention of funds,” Kitui county assembly Budget and Appropriations Committee vice- chairman James Munuve said. Munuve lamented that many a time the executive turns down their request for funds to oversight the county government. “You cannot be given money by the same person that you want to oversight. We have been forced to beg the executive to give us the money because finance CEC must sign everything including monies of salaries and allowances,” Munuve said. The MCA said the current arrangement gives the governors and the finance executives more control over funds disbursed to counties and by-extension, control over county assembly budgets. The MCAs also implored the Senate to pass legislation to allow them access funds to implement development in their wards. Mohamud said the Ward Development Fund Bill has been approved by the Senate and is now with the National Assembly. The county lawmakers sought the Senate Committee’s invention on a myriad of challenges hampering effective legislation and oversight of the executives. They complained of the executives’ late submission of budget documents, non-adherence to fiscal strategy papers and the county integrated development plans,  among other challenges. “Sometimes, we invite executives and sometimes issue summons, but they don’t bother to come. The projections they send to us are completely unrealistic,” Majority leader Peter Kilonzo said. Senators Moses Wetang'ula (Bungoma), Mutula Kilonzo Jr (Makueni) and Isaac Mwaura (nominated) told the MCAs to exploit the powers provided for in law to curb the problem. “Most of the challenges the members have raised are self-imposed structural weaknesses that they should not be crying about. If a CEC snubs a meeting, for instance, you can censure him or even impeach him,” Wetang'ula said.