Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang’ula is confident his candidate in the Kibra by-election will clinch the seat. The Bungoma senator said Khamisi Butichi is a top contender in the November 7 poll contrary to the perception that the race pits three candidates: Imran Okoth (ODM), Eliud Owalo (ANC) and former football star McDonald Mariga (Jubilee). “There will be lots of surprises in the Kibra by-election. We have a lot of support on the ground and this will manifest itself in the ballot,” Wetang’ula said. Without disclosing names, Wetang'ula said Butichi is scheduled to get the endorsement of friendly parties and their leadership. "At the appropriate time, we will let you know the parties that will be supporting Butichi as we head to the election," he added. An engineer, Butichi said he has networks in the constituency since he was born and raised in the area. “I know every corner of Kibra and the people know me,” he explained. Wetang’ula, speaking after holding a strategy meeting with the campaign team, said some candidates might be popular and have the financial might "but the people will go for someone who resonates with them". “Underrate us at your own peril. We will give everybody a run for their money,” he said. His remarks come just as Obulala Movement–a local lobby comprising the area’s religious leaders and elders–endorsed Butichi. The group pledged to work hand in hand with the candidate’s campaign team to mobilise support from the various communities to win the seat. “We ask the Luhya community to overwhelmingly rally behind their son if they expect other communities in the area to support Butichi,” lobby chairman Richard Ekhalie said. Established in 2014, Obulala Movement strives to forge unity of purpose for socioeconomic and political empowerment of the community in Kibra. The group maintained that Butichi is the most suitable candidate of the 24 cleared by the electoral body to replace the late Ken Okoth. Even so, ANC’s Musalia Mudavadi had indicated that he is going to teach Jubilee and ODM a tough lesson in Kibra. Mudavadi said he has a strong candidate and will do everything to win the election. Owalo, a former strategist of former Prime Minister Raila Odinga, decamped from the Orange party to ANC to seek the seat he lost to ODM's Okoth in 2017. Ford Kenya said it would employ a door-to-door campaign and a meet-the-people tour besides public rallies in its vote hunt mission. Edited by R.Wamochie