KENYA Power acting MD Jared Othieno says they do not have contempt for their customers. In fact, he says it is not their corporate policy to close their banking halls during lunch hours. At the weekend following complaints from some Kenyans, Corridors reported that Kenya Power clients are reportedly left unattended at exactly 12.40pm as staff go for a one-hour lunch break. Engineer Othieno told Corridors he has taken note of the complaints and taken necessary remedial action. He also added they have a robust duty roster that allows staff to seamlessly serve their customers. All their branches, he said, open at 7.45am and close the counters at 4.30 pm on weekdays. A Nairobi MCA and part of the assembly leadership are in trouble over money meant for a sick colleague. MCAs had last month contributed Sh520,000 for the ailing colleague. The MCA, who was collecting the money, only sent Sh70,000 and kept the rest for himself. After some of the women MCAs found out, they raised the issue in a WhatsApp group of the city ward reps and threatened to take the guy to the police. The MCA had a meeting with some members of the assembly leadership and agreed to refund the money. They then banked Sh250,000 in the ailing MCA's account and another Sh65,000 later. But still, the bottom line is not balancing. A row is brewing at the Institute of Engineers of Kenya after three members were nominated for appointment to the board of Kenya National Highways Authority. The three, two men and a woman, were allegedly nominated last week. It is rumoured that they will be gazetted anytime, but engineer colleagues are questioning how the names were arrived at. It is also understood that there was no vetting to determine their suitability as required in law. The three are said to enjoy immense political connections within government circles. There are indications a petition could be lodged soon to block their gazettement amid intense lobbying within government circles. SOME top state officials are said to have been demanding favours from one of the popular county chiefs, something that has now become a subject of office grapevine at the county headquarters. Our mole at the county told Corridors the state officers’ list of demands include weekly cash favours and benefits such as waiver of land rates, free parking and title deeds of public property. Our mole claims the favours were initially meant to assure the governor of protection.