Kisumu Governor Anyang Nyong’o has been asked to relocate traders who were evicted from the Kenya Railways Corporation land within the city. The traders' shops, buildings were demolished between September 5 and 7 to open up the lake-front for the operationalisation of the upgraded Kisumu port. Senator Fred Outa said hundreds of traders who were displaced have not started businesses as they lack space. Outa asked Nyong’o to ensure that places earmarked for the traders are constructed within the stipulated time to absorb those affected. He said the traders have families to feed, children to take to school and leaving them out of businesses was disastrous. “These people are currently facing hard times because the majority of them their livelihood depends on small business activities,” he said. The senator praised the ongoing rehabilitation of Kisumu Port which he said will create jobs to the locals. He spoke during the burial of the brother to Nyando MP Jared Okello. The Sh3 billion rehabilitated port that awaits commissioning will benefit Kisumu residents and the larger Western Kenya region. The port is one of the biggest projects initiated in Western Kenya after the handshake even though the exact date of the launch is still unknown. The face-lift is expected to restore the glory of the once vibrant East Africa hub, an area previously perceived as deliberately marginalised by the state. Kenya National Chamber of Commerce-Kisumu Branch Chairman Israel Agina said more than 3,000 businessmen have been affected. Agina said those who were employed directly and indirectly by the establishments have been rendered jobless. Outa, however, criticised the county government for failing to make prior arrangements to settle the traders before moving them out from their shops. “The county government should allocate alternative space to traders before demolition,” he added. Some of the places that have been demolished are Lwang’ni beach eateries, Akamba lane shops, Winmart business shops, Tilapia beach and part of Lake market. Other temporary structures along the streets within the Central Business District have also been brought down. Outa also told Nyong’o to stop entertaining impunity in his administration by ensuring that the impeached finance CEC Nerry Achar vacates the office. He said that his continued stay in office despite the assembly voting to impeach him points to impunity. “Nyong’o’s administration must respect the rule of law. It must not turn a blind eye on matters concerning the residents,” Outa added. Nyong’o announced that already there is market under construction to accommodate the traders. He further noted that his administration is negotiating with Kenya Railways to give them a land to resettle more traders. He defended the eviction of hawkers from the CBD ahead of Afri cities summit in 2021. Nyong’o said the relocation was aimed at sanitising growth, noting that hawkers are on the streets due to lack of proper establishments for their operation. The governor, however, maintained that no trader will be allowed on the streets.