Commonwealth Games 5,000m bronze medallist Edward Zakayo is out of the equation for the forthcoming World Athletics Championships set for Doha, Qatar. The rookie, who was touted to join the 5,000m squad despite finishing eighth at the National Trials was ruled out on the grounds of bad health. The world U-20 champion was confirmed unfit for the championships set for September 27 to October 6. Athletics Kenya (AK) executive member Barnaba Korir said Zakayo had admitted not being ready for the event. " You know the boy has just recovered from pneumonia and he is yet to recover fully," he added. This, he said leaves them with no choice but to deal with the top five depending on the report they will get from the Athletics Integrity Unit (AIU).  Zakayo said his problems started after the All Africa Games in Morocco last month and spilt into the trials. Besides placing their bet on Zakayo to floor the Ethiopians, AK had proposed his name to the final three pending AIU report of the first two athletes who had crossed the line during the trials. Michael Kibet timed 13:03:83 to win the race while Daniel Simiyu and Nicholas Kimeli clocked 13:27:95 and 13:27:99 to finish second and third respectively. AIU's regulations demand an athlete should undergo at least three doping tests including one out of the competition before the championships. Apparently, Kibet and Simiyu fell short and fate lies with AIU. Korir said the federation is mulling considering the other athletes who finished in the top five just in case the two are locked out. “Zakayo is yet to fully recover and will be unavailable for the Doha team. He was part of our plan to break the Ethiopians dominance in the race but he turned down our invitation on medical grounds. With the fate of the top two hanging in limbo, we will make the final decision on Wednesday (today) on who will make the cut,” he said. At the same time, AK is facing a selection headache in the 4x400m mixed relays which has six athletes, two more than the required number. Initially, the race had seven athletes but Linda Kageha was axed and is set to be followed by two who will be deemed surplus to requirement. Maureen Thomas, Mary Moraa, Hellen Syombua, Joseph Poghisio, Alphas Kishoyian and Alex Sampao are all seeking to make the cut. The duo of Moraa and Syombua are set to take part in the ladies 400m so is Kishoyian in the men's category.