Overturning a 4-1 first-leg deficit is a herculean task but not one that is insurmountable, Gor Mahia midfield dynamo Lawrence Juma believes. K’Ogalo have their work cut out as they seek to oust USM Alger this weekend in their Caf Champions League first-round duel. K’Ogalo will need to win the match by three clear goals to proceed to the next round and Juma, who has been a permanent fixture in the Kenyan champions line up for the last three continental matches, believes they have what it takes to turn the tie on its head. “Anything can happen in football. It’s just a matter of staying positive and believing it can happen. This team has achieved grander things before and I don’t think the task at hand is impossible,” he said. To show how serious they are ahead of the return leg clash, Steven Polack called his men in for training on Monday just hours after they had featured in a tough league clash against KCB. Juma, a former player with Nzoia United, Nakuru All-Stars and Timsales was among players who were put through recovery drills having played the 90 minutes in Machakos. He, however, believes he is ready to play a part in the USM clash. “We all have to be ready. I always work hard for the team and it will not be different this weekend. The only thing we have to do is to stay focused on our game plan and see how that turns out in the end,” said the midfielder. ‘Lawi’ has formed a formidable midfield partnership alongside Tobias Otieno that is touted to grow from strength to strength. The former Nzoia man has evolved into a goal-scoring threat from midfield—an asset that will surely boost Polack’s options. “Goals should not only be a burden for the strikers but also defenders. It’s always good to score when it is not your core responsibility and that is something we do in training day in, day out,” philosophised Juma. The modest midfielder harbours the ambition of playing for the national team but in his soft-spoken way, he coyly avoids a direct answer. “With time it (playing for Harambee stars) will come,” he concluded. Gor will be without Ghanaian Francis Afiriye for the crucial clash but Nicholas Kipkirui who sustained a knock against the bankers on Sunday is back in training and in contention for a place in the squad.