Candidates for the forthcoming by-election in Kibra Constituency held their rallies on Sunday across the populous informal settlement. The theme of the campaigns, it appears, is the candidates' promises on education and employment for the youth. Jubilee aspirant McDonald Mariga held his rally at DC ground where he told the residents that he was ready to pick from where the late Ken Okoth left at. Mariga added that he is a man of few words but promised Kibra voters for enormous developments in the area if he clinched the seat. “Education ifanywe vizuri na watoto wetu wapewe bursaries bila ubaguzi. Mimi sipendi kuongea mengi, napenda kazi. Kuongea kidogo lakini kazi nyingi,” Mariga said. Mariga's rally was attended by some Jubilee legislators including Langata Member of Parliament Nixon Korir, James Gakuya of Embakasi North, John Kiarie of Dagoretti South, Nominated MP Milicent Omanga among others. Amani National Congress candidate Eliud Owalo was also on the ground, dismissing rumours that he was about to quit the race in favour of Mariga. Owalo promised Kibra people that he will ensure that technical institute is set up in the area if elected. He said that youths need to be advised to go for short courses which he said will help them to create more jobs. “Siku hizi sio lazima upate degree ndio upate namna ya kuishi. Mimi kama Owalo sijawahi andikwa na mtu. Nataka vijana waende wafanye hizi courses ndogo ndogo,” Owalo said. He was accompanied by Vihiga MP Beatrice Adagala and Lugari MP Ayub Savula. ODM candidate Benard 'Imram' Okoth was also on the campaign trail in Kibra hunting for votes. In the company of ODM Secretary General, Edwin Sifuna and MPs Esther Kwamboka George Aladwa and other ODM leaders, Okoth attended a church service at Mashimoni PAG Lindi. He appealed to the congregation to spread the word on his candidature to ensure that he reaches as many people as possible. "I cannot reach everyone and I am appealing to you to help spread the word. I am ready to ensure that we continue building on education and ensuring that all our children get bursaries," Okoth said. Ford Kenya party lead by Bungoma Senator Moses Wetangula pitched camp at Laini Saba area campaigning for their candidate Khamisi Butichi. Wetangula said Butichi will be a people's servant and not the boss. IEBC has scheduled Kibra by-election date to be on November 7. The seat has attracted 24 aspirants seeking to replace Ken Okoth who succumbed to cancer, living the seat vacant.