More fun both drivers and fans is expected as organisers prepare for the Chloride Exide-sponsored Hill Climb competition that kicks off this morning. Devan Jadeja, the Race Director, has been working for the past few weeks to make sure all areas, especially the spectator stages, are well managed and secure. The programme will start this morning with Scrutineering (0730-1000hrs at Malewa Bay), Parade Lap (1130hrs), Start of Heat on Day 1 (1200hrs) and Start of Heats on Day2 (1200hrs). Malewa Bay, situated on Moi North Lake road within outskirts of Naivasha, will host the competition. The stretch, measuring nearly four kilometres long is said have 14 sharp corners raising from 1820 to 2050 meters above sea level. Tim Jessop, who drove a Buggy in the last round of the series, will be among the competitors ready for the final round of the Hill Climb Competition. He is fresh from winning the Mombasa Rally, a round of the 2019 KCB Kenya National Rally Championship The latest round of the Hill Climb series, which will be dubbed as the Chloride Exide Hill Climb, will take place at the Malewa Bay. Malewa Bay is situated on the Moi North Lake road. The Rift Valley Motor Sport Club organizers have secured a new venue at the Malewa Bay, which is situated about 12 kms off the Nakuru-Moi Highway on the Moi North Lake Road.The popularity of the event, with both entrants and spectators, is once again established with a fantastic entry of over 24 competitors that includes the top KNRC contenders in addition to the ever spectacular ladies Syaana Jessop and Chantel Young among others. Provisionally, the races will start at 12noon after all the other programme has been dealt with. The circuit distance is roughly of four kilometres with altitude rising from 1820 to 2050 meters above sea level with approximately 14 sharp corners There will be seven different classes which will include Bikes, Quads, 4WDs, Raids, Classics, Buggies and Juniors. Machines varying from ordinary rally cars to buggies and motorcycles will be seen in action at the hands of some of the most renowned competitors in the local scene. Cars will run at two-minute intervals on the Competitive heats while motorcycles will run at one-minute intervals on similar heats. The following is the team of officials: Event director - Deven Jadeja, Assistant COC - Kakey Virdee, Chief Safety Officer - Sunny Bashir, Chief Scrutineering - Keith Henrie, Assistant Scrutineer - Pich Bhabra, Chief Medical officer - Dr.Raj Jutley, Service Manager - Viru Jadeja and Secretary of Meeting - Myra Jadeja. Classes to be tackled: The 2019 Chloride Exide King of the Hill, The 2019 Chloride Exide Queen of the Hill, The 2019 Chloride Exide Motorbike champion, The 2019 Chloride Exide Quad-bike champion, The 2019 Chloride Exide buggy champion (min age 12)The 2019 Chloride Exide Classic/2WD car champion, The 2019 Chloride Exide 4WD car champion, The 2019 Chloride Exide under 17 champion and The 2019 Chloride Exide Rally Raid Car Champion.