The government has ordered the closure of all unregistered schools offering basic education in the country. Through the Ministry of Education, the state said that some of the schools in the country have been established without following a due process with some operating without licenses. In a circular released on Friday signed by Principal Secretary Belio Kipsang, the ministry also directed closure to all registered schools but grappling with  deteriorating infrastructure. "  Most of those institutions do not meet the minimum standards required of them to be registered and some of them have infrastructure that is below standard and which pose danger to learners," part of the statement reads. Also, schools that have changed their status will be re-assessed before being registered fresh. Such schools the circular said include those which have increased their enrollment. This come after it was established that Precious Talent Top School in Nairobi where 8 pupils died after section of classroom collapsed on them had violated the rules. The school was licensed to enroll only 340 learners but at the time of the tragedy, the school had enrolled 923 learners. The ministry also asked its field officers to carry an assessment of all schools and make appropriate decisions before the end of the third term, which on October 25th. The ministry said Schools with teachers who have not been registered by the Teachers Service Commission will not be spared. The government has asked parents to also take preventive measures by checking the registration of schools which their children are enrolled at before the term ends. Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha said on Friday while touring coastal region that more schools will be closed in the country if they have substandard buildings. The CS closed Greenfield academy in Mombasa for poor infrastructure. The crackdown in schools comes after the death of eight pupils of Precious Talent Academy in Dagoretti South after a classroom wall collapsed. The incident injured 65 students who admitted at Kenyatta National Hospital for check up before being released. The court detained the owner of the school on Friday for 15 days as investigations continue.