Nairobi County Speaker Beatrice Elachi has opposed Jubilee's McDonald Mariga's candidature in the November 7 Kibra by-election. Elachi who is also a member of the ruling party said Mariga cannot fit into the shoes of the late MP Ken Okoth. "For anyone going to Kibra, they must set the bar high just like Ken Okoth…Mariga cannot continue Okoth’s legacy,” Elachi told Citizen TV on Tuesday morning. She said Mariga just woke up one morning to claim that he can govern the people of Kibra. "I am sorry to say that..this is why I feel sad. When I wanted to vie in Dagoretti North, I did not just wake up and go there to vie," Elachi retorted. "I went there two years before the election and that is what leaders must do.. Understand the magnitude of what you are going into and how the people of Nairobi live." Elachi claimed that Mariga cannot just go to Kibra and yet he has never voted anyone in that area. "You want to go to Kibra for its people to vote for you and yet you have never voted anyone?" she posed. "Okoth has been sick for two years you should have gone and said you are a part of Kibra.. and say you have projects.." Elachi said Mariga should have built a football academy in Kibra before claiming to want to govern its people. "You are not campaigning..I can go to any county and you start a project. You are not de-campaigning the leader .. he is a good footballer. I would want to know how many academies are there," he said. Her declaration comes a week after Jubilee nominated MP Maina Kamanda declared his support for Okoth for the by-election. Kamanda spoke after meeting ODM leader Raila Odinga at the AU envoy's office in Capitol Hill. President Uhuru Kenyatta who is also the Jubilee Party Leader last week officially threw his weight behind Mariga's candidature. Uhuru and Deputy President William Ruto met the former Harambee Stars international at State House last Wednesday and vowed to fully rally behind him in the race. Uhuru wished Mariga, who was accompanied by Jubilee Party Secretary-General Raphael Tuju, success in the contest and assured him of his full backing.