The ruling in an appeal by the DPP challenging acquittal of five suspects charged with defrauding Miwani Sugar Company of Sh2.3 billion land has been postponed. The Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Division of the High Court in Nairobi will deliver the ruling on October 1. Sukhwinder Chatte, Ian Maina, Philip Odongo, Epanaito Okoyo and Crossley Holdings Limited were set free for lack of evidence. They had been charged alongside former magistrate Adulakadir Elkindy and Moses Osewe with conspiracy to defraud the Miwani-based firm of 9,394 acres between May 21, 2007 and January 30, 2008. One accused person, John Gitau, died before the ruling was made. In Kisumu, chief magistrate Julius Ng'arng'ar had ruled that Elkindy and Osewe had a case to answer and put them on their defence. Thirty witnesses testified. Elkindy was charged with abuse of office. She said her signature was forged to facilitate the alleged transfer. Osewe was accused of willfully failing to collect land rates. Ng'arng'ar, however, acquitted the rest for lack of evidence. But the Directorate of Public Prosecutions sprang a surprise on them by revisiting the case. Noordin Haji, through Assistant DPP Frederick Ashimosi, told a Nairobi court he had sufficient evidence against the five. In July, Ashimosi faulted the acquittal. He told the Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Court that they had proof that the value of the grabbed property was Sh2.3 billion. He took issue with Ng’arng'ar's assertion that the investigation was shoddy. "We will also prove that the land in question belongs to Miwani Sugar Company and not as earlier ruled,” he told Justice Mumbi Ngugi while formally submitting the appeal. The accused conspired to defraud the state through forgery, fraudulent disposal of public property and fraudulent acquisition of public property, the court heard. Ashimosi said parts of the ruling were contradictory. “The magistrate ruled that Osewe and former magistrate Elkindy had a case to answer on charges of abuse of office, yet he established that there was no proof of a conspiracy against Chatte and Crossely Holdings, to whom the property was transferred,” he said. He said sufficient evidence at their disposal showed Maina, Kimani, Odongo and Okoyo aided the irregular transfer process by forging documents.