Jubilee has moved to stem rebellion within the party after several aspirants for the Kibra by-election contested the nomination of former football star McDonald Mariga to vie for the seat. The party’s National Election Board on Thursday met with the aggrieved aspirants and gave them the opportunity to air their complaints with the view of resolving the issues. After lengthy deliberations, the aspirants agreed to withdraw their complaint and thereafter addressed a press conference where they declared their support for Mariga. However, Morris Peter Kinyanjui, who had filed an appeal with the board formally did not declare his stand personally. Kinyajui had indicated that the decision to give Mariga the Jubilee ticket was unfair and in contravention of the Jubilee Party constitution. Daniel Orogo nonetheless said the party gave them a fair hearing and they agreed as a group to support Mariga for the seat. “Our issues were heard in an amicable way, though not conclusively, but we reached an agreement,” he said. Also present during the press conference were Mariga, Langata MP Nixon Korir and former Kakamega senator Boni Khalwale. Mariga was picked by the Jubilee National Elections Board on Monday after vetting. According to Jubilee NEB Mariga scored 500 marks out of 600 to emerge the winner. Hussein Ramadhan Abdi came in second scoring 371 marks while Peter Morris Kinyanjui was third with 367 marks. Musangi gave Mariga 80 marks, Aden Noor Ali gave him 92 marks, Leah Ntimama (88 marks), Samuel Kobia (72 marks), Michael Waweru (75 marks) and Carolyne Kamende (93 marks). Areas of testing included knowledge of party policies, ability to finance campaigns, understanding of parliamentary work and his vision for Kibra. A total of 16 people who were interested for the seat were vetted by the board. National board chairman Andrew Musangi described Mariga as a man of impeccable character and credentials who has had "enduring connections with the people of Kibra". Mariga will be facing Amani National Congress candidate Eliud Owalo who was the former ODM party leader aide. ODM will contact its primaries on Saturday to pick its candidate. IEBC announced that Kibra by-elections will be held on November 7. The seat fell vacant after the death of former area legislator Ken Okoth who succumbed to cancer on July 26.