The Kenya Urban Roads Authority is constructing walkways along major city roads to reduce road accidents. Pedestrians are the most vulnerable and numerous victims of road accidents the National Transport and Safety Authority says. This year 904 pedestrians have died in road accidents nationwide,  compared with 708 last year. A WHO  report says that at least 3,000 to 13,000 Kenyans lose their lives in road traffic crashes every year. Most of them are vulnerable road users — pedestrians, motorcyclists and bicyclists. This is partly attributed to lack of safe walking paths or sidewalks and lack of footbridges. Kura corporate affairs officer Stephen Njogu told the Star on Friday that the country has about 565 kilometres of walkways. He did not give numbers for Nairobi but said Kurahas built walkways in ongoing projects such as Ngong Road, Parklands Ring Road, Upper Hill Road and the Waiyaki Way-Red Hill Link Road. He said Kura aims to greatly increase the number of walkways. Most walkways in the city have been encroached upon by kiosk owners, hawkers and boda boda operators. The county demolitions department has often tried unsuccessfully to drive them away and has demolished kiosks and sheds. They keep coming back. The Star toured around Yaya Centre, Lavington and Westlands on Friday and discovered that most vendors still operate on walkways. Fruit and flower seller Mary Kama said she is willing to risk her business and properties just to put food on the table for her family. “Things took a left turn when my husband died five years ago in a road accident while I was a housewife. I have two children in school. I have been up and down looking for jobs to no avail. This is the only thing I can do right now.” She said vendors run off when the askaris come "It's a cat-and-mouse game. Most of the time we are forced  to give them a small bribe so they do not demolish our properties." However, Njogu from  Kura said some walkways are in good condition and usable despite a number being encroached upon. The Sankara Hotel in Westlands has blocked its walkways next to the hotel entrance with a chain, pushing pedestrians into the road, which puts them at risk. The Kura official said it is illegal to operate businesses along the walkways and on-road reserves and warned traders that the law will catch up with them. “It's been a challenge trying to keep walkways free of all these illegal activities that make the walkways dirty and unusable. We also face problems of vandalism as people destroy sign posts, guard rails and many others. Many re vandalised for scrap metal," he said. Kura has been urged to erect posts to keep illegal traders away. Pedestrians, bicyclists and cart pushers are exposed to a lot of cars, lorries, matatus and buses, resulting in many accidents. Roads are congested and there is not enough space for them. The ideal is a transport system with space for pedestrians and bicyclists, which also reduces pollution and maintenance costs. That's part of the county's transportation master plan. The Nairobi government plans improving transport safety by increasing the number of painted pedestrian crossings from 150 to 500 by 2020. Edited by R.Wamochie