Football’s leagues did not used to publish tables until three games in. What would be the point? First game, the club with the biggest win would be top, their opponents bottom. It didn’t mean anything. It didn’t inform. Even freezing the action after the four games played this season offers no guaranteed insight. At this stage last season, Watford, not Tottenham, were among the Champions League places, and none of the bottom three were clubs that eventually went down. The year before, Watford were again top four, Huddersfield top six and the bottom seven included Arsenal. Yet some clues were visible. Last season, the Champions League places after four games were already occupied by three of the clubs that would qualify. This year? Maybe the same. Liverpool, Manchester City, Leicester, Crystal Palace is the way the table currently stands. And having seen the rest of the elite in action, there is no guarantee what we have come to regard as normal service will be resumed. Are Leicester inferior to those missing members of the big six? Not from what we have witnessed so far. May they be joined by another member from outside the gilded band? It is far from impossible. Leicester won the league in 2016, we are always told, because the big clubs were in transition. Yet that is also true this season. Manchester United and Chelsea are most certainly in flux, Tottenham are evolving slowly, Arsenal are trying to progress despite a defence that makes squirrels in traffic look confident and self-determined. Big changes are underway throughout two-thirds of the traditional elite. Once again, Leicester could be the beneficiaries. They look good under Brendan Rodgers. They have improved defensively, Jamie Vardy is in outstanding nick again, James Maddison is among the best young players in the country. They have bought well, too, and are intelligently organised. It was no surprise at all that Leicester got a draw away at Chelsea last month, and might even have won. In current form, they could play four of the big six off evens right now, despite having sold them two of their best players in Harry Maguire and N’Golo Kante. Beyond that, looking down the table, are clubs such as Everton, West Ham, Crystal Palace and, in the distance, Wolves. Clubs that have invested, that have bought well, that have a strong philosophy and individual talents, such as Wilfried Zaha, turning matches. The top four may be too much, but the Europa League? Why not? The big six no longer look like the top six. Not this year. Chelsea, for instance, could be anything. Jurgen Klopp loves what Frank Lampard is trying to do, and so he should, but there is no guarantee it will be successful in his first season. The same with United, who are also inconsistent. They beat Chelsea 4-0 on the first day but, after four games, have their lowest points total since 1992-93. They won the league that year, but it will not happen this time. Liverpool and Manchester City are streets away. As of now, they are their own breakaway league. Burnley at Turf Moor would be a tough game for many of their peers, yet Liverpool breezed it. United drew 1-1 against a Southampton team down to 10 men for the final 17 minutes on Saturday, Liverpool travelled to the same ground on the back of a midweek UEFA Super Cup final in Istanbul against Chelsea that went to extra-time and penalties and won 2-1. When the Premier League reconvenes after this international break, Leicester visit Old Trafford. On paper, United should win. On historical form, too, given that Leicester were last victorious in the league there on January 31, 1998. Yet Crystal Palace hadn’t won in the league at Old Trafford since 1989, so will the home fans feel confident about what will unfold against Leicester? The gap has been closed by the Premier League’s collective wealth. One of the reasons the big six demanded a bigger share of the overseas rights is they saw mid-ranking clubs achieving increasing impact in the transfer market. Caglar Soyuncu, Youri Tielemans, Ayoze Perez and, of course, Vardy, were all players who were linked to bigger clubs at one stage but, when that opportunity did not materialise, have ended up at Leicester. The rump of those below the elite have all recruited talent that would not look out of place in a Champions League fixture: Richarlison, Zaha, Ruben Neves, Sebastien Haller. Jose Mourinho identified this change when he was manager of Chelsea and Crystal Palace bought Yohan Cabaye from Paris Saint-Germain. Mourinho said Cabaye was a player he might have signed had he room in his squad. Now, instead of going elsewhere in Europe, he was within Palace’s grasp. West Ham, Newcastle even, have paid the equivalent price for a striker that Liverpool paid for Mo Salah. It is no longer unthinkable a player of his quality might be signed by a mid-table club if the elite are distracted. And the pressure builds again. Of course, injury to a significant first-team player can do greater damage outside the top six than in it. Manchester City won the title last season with Kevin De Bruyne starting less than a third of their league games. A similar injury to Vardy, Kante or Riyad Mahrez would have utterly derailed Leicester in their miracle season. Yet little beyond Liverpool and Manchester City has given the rest of the Premier League reason to fear so far. Crystal Palace have won at Manchester United, Newcastle at Tottenham, Chelsea have dropped points at home to Sheffield United. The special clubs aren’t looking too special. Leicester to finish top four, and another of the outsiders to invade the top six? Nothing in this first month suggests it cannot happen.