The civil society on Sunday demanded that the impending Mau forest evictions be done without violating human rights. The lobbies, under Civil Society Reference Group, called on the multi-agency task force overseeing the evictions to place human rights at the centre of its planning. This means that the state must offer the affected persons and families alternative land "of better or equal quality". The criteria must be accessibility, affordability, habitability, the security of tenure, cultural adequacy, the suitability of location, and access to essential services such as health and education. "The Civil Society Reference Group would like to caution the government that if not carried out in a lawful manner, forced evictions constitute and have the potential to cause gross violations of a range of internationally recognised human rights," it said. The outfit said among the rights likely to be violated are rights to adequate housing, food, water, health, education, work, security, home security, freedom from cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment, and freedom of movement. The government has announced its plans to evict 60,000 settlers in the giant water tower on October 28 to pave the way for the second phase of its restoration. Despite the spirited opposition by local political leaders, the state's intention to evict the forest dwellers appear unstoppable as it has even disowned 700 title deeds. Another 1,274 title deeds have been listed for cancellation. The lobbies are particularly concerned that the government has already closed a number of schools and other institutions of learning in the affected areas. This is exposing children and other vulnerable groups in the community like persons with disabilities, the elderly and the sick to the suffering that could have been avoided, they said. "Kenyans should not be treated to the kind of violations that were witnessed during the first round of evictions from Mau Forest or more recently from Kibra (to pave way for road construction) when government demolished settlements of families at night, without according them an opportunity to salvage their belongings and find alternative places where they can resettle and resume their normal lives," the statement reads. The lobby also wants the communities living on forest land to cooperate with the authorities and take advantage of the 60 day-window to remove any movable property they may need as they relocate. Local leaders, the group says, must also provide wise counsel to the affected communities. "They should be part of the solution to restoration of the Mau Forest while at the same time ensuring that the government conducts the planned evictions in a manner that does not cause gross violation of the rights of the people."