 Kisumu MCAs have made changes in the county assembly leadership just days after the chaotic removal of Speaker Onyango Oloo who has been charged with corruption. Violence erupted in the assembly on Tuesday and MCAs wrestled and threw punches after Elisha Oraro was elected acting speaker. He will replace Oloo until he is cleared or convicted of corruption in connection with the Lake Basin Mall. Oloo with willful failure to comply with procurement laws and abuse of office. he denied the charges and was released on Sh6 million bail on Monday. In the changes made on Wednesday, Kaloleni/Shauri Moyo MCA Prisca Misachi was elected chief whip to take over from Gard Olima. Nominated MCA Jennifer Obonyo took the deputy chief whip position with  Nyalenda A ward representative Richard Ogendo becoming the new deputy Majority leader. There were claims that those removed were loyal to Oloo and that the changes were sanctioned by the ODM party that also suggested names of those to be elected. Changes were also made to the membership of the speakers panel and two new committees introduced. More changes are expected to be done in relation to the chairmanship of various committees. "They said they are cleaning the house by removing anybody perceived to be close or allied to the speaker from important positions in the assembly. We won't talk. Let them do what they want but time will tell," an MCA who did not want to be mentioned told the Star. Speaking in Nyando constituency on Friday, ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna urged the MCAs to settle their differences without squabbling. He said the chaos witnessed on Wednesday was a disgrace to the assembly. Sifuna spoke during the burial of area MP Jared Okello's brother. Earlier on Thursday, ODM party leader Raila Odinga’s wife Ida condemned the chaos saying the assembly is for debate on issues that concern residents and not a fistfight arena. She told the MCAs to stop wrangling and confrontation and instead focus on enacting laws beneficial to residents.  edited by peter obuya