Survivors of last week’s Dusit attack yesterday described the complex as “full of horror” and a stark reminder of the traumatic events of the raid. Those allowed to pick their cars and belongings said they were still haunted by the 20-hour siege in which 21 people were killed. “The sound of the blast which went off two floors below us was fresh in my mind when I got there this morning,” an LG employee who did not want to be named said. He said offices on the first three floors of the seven-storey upmarket hotel complex in Nairobi were badly damaged. It was the first time the public was allowed into the premises, which were closed last Wednesday after police ended the siege. Only survivors were let in with police barring reporters from the building. Those whose cars were at the complex were subjected to a rigorous verification process before being allowed to drive away. Those claiming cars with diplomatic number plates were asked to contact their respective embassies before being allowed access. Owners of cars with foreign number plates, mostly Ugandan and South Sudanese, were asked for proof of ownership. Distraught friends of those killed laid wreaths at the entrance to the complex. Police only allowed access to two individuals from each of the companies housed at the complex. “I don’t think it will be easy for us even if we were to go back to work there,” the LG employee said. Another employee, Haewoong Im, said he hid under his desk for three hours before he was rescued. “I’m lucky to be alive,” Im said. He was eating with colleagues at DusitD2 when the gunmen struck. “It was a traumatising experience but we’ll not be cowed. There is no absolutely safe place so we’ll come back to the office,” the Korean national said. A detective told the Star the offices’ walls were bullet-riddled, windows shattered with bloodstains all over. “The place is still a mess,” the officer said. He said the area has improved from a few days ago, when foul smell filled the air. Peter Karanja of Kenya Market Trust said the ordeal “brought a sense of deep connection with self.” “We hope the trauma will end and order will prevail again,” he said. Bartender Briane Onyongo said he was still shocked but coping. “I believe the trauma will end with counselling,” he said. Survivors of last week's Dusit attack yesterday described the complex as "full of horror" and a stark reminder of the traumatic events of the raid. Those allowed to pick their cars and belongings said they were still haunted by the 20-hour siege in which 21 people were killed "The sound of the blast which went off two floors below us was fresh in my mind when I got there this morning," an LG employee who did not want to be named said. He said offices on the first three floors of the seven-storey upmarket hotel complex in Nairobi were badly damaged. It was the first time the public were allowed to enter the premises that were closed on Wednesday after police ended the siege. Only survivors were let it with police barring reporters from the premises. Those whose cars were at the complex were subjected to a rigorous verification process before being allowed to drive away. Those claiming cars with diplomatic number plates were asked to contact their respective embassies before being allowed access. Owners of cars with foreign number plates, mostly Ugandan and South Sudanese, were asked for proof of ownership. Distraught friends of those killed laid wreaths at the entrance to the complex. Police only allowed access to two individuals from each of the companies housed at the complex. "I don't think it will be easy for us even if we were to go back to work there," the LG employee said. Another employee of the company, Haewoong Im, said he hid under his desk for three hours before he was rescued. "I'm lucky to be alive," Im said. He was at the DusitD2 Hotel eating with colleagues when gunmen stormed the complex. “It was a traumatising experience but we'll not be cowed. There is no absolutely safe place so we'll come back to the office," the Korean national said. A detective told the Star the offices' walls were bullet-riddled, windows shattered with blood stains all over. "The place is still a mess," the officer said. He said the area has improved from a few days ago when foul smell filled the air. Peter Karanja of Kenya Market Trust said the ordeal "brought a sense of deep connection with self.” "We hope the trauma will end and order will prevail again," Karanja said.  Bartender Briane Onyongo said he was still shocked but coping. "I believe the trauma will end with counseling," he said.