The coming together of counties to form regional economic blocs is not only the handiwork of visionary leadership at the devolved level but a pretty transformative initiative,devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa said on Friday "I want to encourage and thank you for coming together to look at the bigger picture and work together. In fact these blocs are going to become the new engine of social economic transformation of our country," Wamalwa said. He was speaking at a Kitui hotel where he was hosted by governor Charity Ngilu during a public participation session on the policy and legal frame work that will give the blocs the force of law and make them legally operational. The CS said so far the 47 counties in Kenya have come together in their respective regions to come up with six economic blocs so far. "They are going to be theaters that will accelerate development not just for our counties but for the country as a whole," he noted. He said President Uhuru Kenyatta had given his ministry the January 31 deadline to present before the cabinet the policy paper and legal framework to drive the regional economic blocs which have so fare faced headwinds for lack of operating policy and legal backing. Wamalwa thus pointed out that to circumvent the challengsd that the economic blocs were faced with, the national government was working with counties and stakeholders to develop the policy and legal framework to ensure the blocs work. "Coming together makes you strong. Coming together makes you all attractive (to investors)," said the CS. He noted that the existing legal framework that allows counties to work together had limitations. He cited the county government Act, the intergovernmental relationship Act and Public-Private partnership Act among others which he said experts have to look into and have them amended. The CS however called of both county executives and the assemblies to have unity of purpose to make the regional economic blocs successful. "It will need critical partnership between the executive of the counties (forming the blocs) and the assemblies to work together," said Wamalwa. He said all counties coming into economic bloc must ensure they have the full support of their respective legislative arm. Ngilu said that the three Ukambani Counties of Kitui, Machakos and Makueni have already come up with the South Eastern Kenya Economic Bloc (SEKEB) to spur the area's economy and development. He said the leaders are already working on intercounty trade initiatives. Governor Alfred Mutua of Machakos was represented by his deputy Francis Maliti and Makueni Kivutha Kibwana governor was represented by County secretary Paul Wasanga.