Before people declare a place has been marginalised, it is important to examine governance structure. Almost 30 per cent of the revenue collected is given to county governments and there is a formula used in county governance. So if people feel there is marginalisation, blame the formula because money has already been devolved. The President as an individual has very little to do with how resources are shared. Let's separate the role of the head of state from resource allocation. This allocation is done within the Constitution and the President has a very minimal role. When people say one area is being marginalised — I'm not saying yes or no — the place to take the fight is the resource allocation areas, not State House. We are not even separating areas the counties are handling. For example, if you go to Wajir and you find the town being tarmacked, it is being done by the county. So it is up to you to ensure that allocated funds are being utilised properly. And if it isn't enough, you go and fight for more resources. Rebelling or not rebelling against President Uhuru Kenyatta does not add any financial capacity or resources. Where are resources allocated? Go there and fight for them. When you politick all day and don't go to ministries to battle for funds, you cannot blame the President. Sometimes with a lot of inexperienced people, you have a problem. If you're an MP looking for a road, you first lobby Parliament to ensure the budget being allocated has a road in your side. You also lobby the ministry because there's an ongoing fight for resources. But if you think the President on his own will favour one region, that's not going to happen because it's his job to grow the country, not one region. The economic situation is the real cause of all this discontent. We should be asking the President to tell his officers to release money to suppliers and contractors. If today everybody owed money by the government were paid — sugarcane maize, coffee farmers — you would see an economic revival and these issues of 'marginalised' regions' would largely disappear. The former Nyeri senator spoke to the Star Click here for the latest political news