Deputy President William Ruto will not be the 'automatic' successor to President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2022, Kanu secretary general Nick Salat has said. Salat said Kenyans will decide and elect the next President based on his or her ideologies and not where he or she comes from. He said one should not think that he will become the next president against the will of Kenyans. “Wale wanakaa na kufirikia watapita katikati na kuleta shida, tutapita na nyinyi, Wakenya watakupeleka nyumbani (Those who sit and think that they will pass in between to bring problems will be sent home by Kenyans),” Salat said on Monday. He spoke during a burial in Kisumu. During the launch of the universal health coverage pilot in Kisumu in December, Ruto said "Mkiona Uhuru na Prime Minister Tinga mwenyewe ako hapa na uone hustler pia ako kati yao, mjue mambo iko sawa. Sisi wote tutatembea safari moja ya kuunganisha wakenya." (When you see (President) Uhuru and Prime Minister Tinga himself is here with the hustler, you should know everything is well. We are all on the same journey of uniting Kenyans). Salat said Kenyans will be allowed to elect the right leaders they want which were not based on their tribe. “We don’t want to know where the president comes from but we want a President that every Kenyan is proud of for his development agenda and integrity,” he said. Salat urged Kenyans to focus on development and not be bothered by wrangles in the Jubilee party saying it was non-beneficial to them. Read: Keep off IEBC matters, Kanu's Salat tells DP Ruto He said Kanu will support a referendum which will benefit all Kenyans. Salat said those opposed to the referendum were misguided and would not stop an idea whose time has come. “A referendum would work for the benefit of Kenyans since it would prevent a 'winner take it all' form of government after elections,” he said. Salat noted that an amendment to the Constitution is the best way to fix some of the challenges facing the country. “We are ready for a referendum to correct the wrongs that we always find ourselves repeating it in every election,” he said. “It is unfortunate that every election we are losing families and friends because of fighting and killing each other. This has to stop.” He supported the handshake between Uhuru and ODM leader Raila Odinga saying it has brought peace and stability in the country. Salat faulted those politicising the unity drive by Uhuru and Raila for selfish gains. He asked Kenyans to shun divisive politics and rally behind the two leaders in uniting the country for the realisation of economic development. “We are sorry for those opposing the unity pact aimed at addressing past injustices. Kenyans will vote you out,” he added. Salat asked communities living on the Kisumu, Nandi, and Kericho borders to live peacefully and embrace dialogue in case of conflict. Read also: Kanu to DP Ruto: We will not give you any breathing space Click here for the latest political news