Meru governor Kiraitu Murungi has told Mt Kenya leaders accusing President Uhuru Kenyatta of neglecting the region in terms of developments to recant their statement. Kiraitu on Wednesday said many projects have been initiated by the Jubilee administration in Meru county. He urged the Mt Kenya leaders to convene an urgent meeting to deliberate on the issues bedevilling the region instead of castigating the Head of State. "Let us sit down as leaders of Mt Kenya region and strategise on how we can mobilise more resources for the development of our counties," Kiraitu said. "I don't agree with those who say he has neglected the Mt Kenya region. Uhuru is trying his best. He cannot do everything alone." Kiraitu cited the Sh900 million set aside for miraa farmers and Sh900 million for construction of Kinoru Stadium to international standards. "He has waived the Sh400 million debt of Meru Dairy Cooperative Union. There's Sh1 billion for sewarage in Meru town, Sh200 million for construction of water intakes and Sh100 million to uplift Meru town. He is supporting the revival of coffee production in the region. He has given us money to construct dams and water pans. He has instructed CS (James) Macharia to fast track tarmacking of roads in all constituencies of Meru and others," he said while giving his New Year's message at a hotel in Meru town. Kiraitu said he supports the handshake between Uhuru and opposition leader Raila Odinga towards harmony, peace and developments in the country. "I support and will support the national dialogue being undertaken by the Building Bridges Initiative seeking a sustainable solution to our perennial cycles of elections violence, political instability, ethnic tensions and strife," the county boss said. On January 1, Trade CS Peter Munya said a restructuring of the Executive should be done to have a President, Deputy President, Prime Minister and two Deputy Prime Ministers. “Having the five in the executive will accommodate almost two-thirds of the population,” Munya said. Munya said exclusion continues to generate conflict and disagreements which hurt the economy every election cycle. Kiraitu said the unfolding political divisions within Jubilee leadership risk permanently destroying the spirit of the party. The governor was the chairman of the national coordinating committee tasked with merging 13 parties to form Jubilee. "We made many efforts and sacrifices to achieve our dream of creating a formidable political party which would unite Kenyans irrespective or their tribe, region or religion and it was a platform for promoting peace, progress and prosperity in a united Kenya," Kiraitu said. "It is sad to see all these efforts, sacrifices and dreams go up in smoke. Let us not allow Jubilee to be destroyed by selfish political intrigues and parochialism. Let us come together and reason again. We have to return Jubilee to its original dreams to be a powerful instrument for addressing the emerging challenges and demands of our political environment." Read: Uhuru tells off 'washenzi' after Moses Kuria Central Kenya remark Also Read: [VIDEO] Bahati MP Kimani Ngunjiri starts 'mshenzi' movement after Uhuru slur Related: Ruto rushes to defend Uhuru against attacks Click here for the latest political news