World 3,000m steeplechase record holder Beatrice Chepkoech was in superb form as she cruised to victory in the Internacional de Itálica in Santiponce cross country race, the sixth leg of this season’s IAAF Cross Country Permit Series near the Spanish city of Seville on Sunday. Chepkoech clocked 28:01 to win the race ahead of Uganda’s Stella Chesang ( 28:35 ) and Turkey’s Yasmin Can ( 29:04 ), whom placed second and third respectively. Kenya’s Hellen Lobun was fourth in 29:10. Kenya’s Chepkoech took command of the race from the gun and set such a quick pace that hardly after a minute, only four athletes—Uganda’s Chesang, Yasemin Can, Ethiopia’s Gete Alemayehu and Lobun—were able to live with her rhythm. Shortly after covering the opening kilometre, the 27-year-old Kenyan was already alone in the lead while Chesang, who beat Chepkoech last Sunday in Elgoibar, and Can ran together way back. After the third kilometre, Chesang—a training partner of Cheptegei in Kapchorwa—got rid of the Turk and so the podium positions appeared to be decided at a relatively early stage of the race. Taking advantage of a course that suited her much better than the tough Elgoibar race last weekend, Chepkoech increased her lead with each lap. Some 15 minutes into the race and with two 1.95km loops remaining, the IAAF Diamond League steeplechase champion had a 15-second advantage over Chesang, herself 10 seconds clear of Can, thanks a brisk 6:02 lap. By then, Britain’s 2012 European U23 cross-country champion Jess Piasecki was the top European, 12 seconds clear of Spain’s Trihas Gebre. Although Chepkoech’s speed decreased over the final two laps ( 6:07 and 6:13 ), the Kenyan’s lead continued to grow while Chesang and Can were comfortably in second and third without being threatened. Chepkoech crossed the line 34 seconds ahead of Chesang and a huge 1:04 before cross-country specialist Can. Further down the field, Gebre overtook Piasecki midway through the final lap to cross the finish line 10 seconds ahead the Briton. “I liked the race and the weather,” said Chepkoech. “The course may appear like a track to spectators but it had several ups and downs. That’s fine for me, though, as I’m a steeplechaser.” In the men’s category, teen phenomenon Jacob Kiplimo of Uganda carried the day, posting 27:48. Joshua Chptegei was placed second in 28:04 as Albert Rop of Bahrain came third in 28:06 with Vincent Rono the highest placed Kenyan in 28:14.