The management of the 14 Riverside has condoled with the families that lost their relatives following Tuesday's terror attack at the DusitD2 hotel complex. In a statement, the management said though they had been injured, they refused to be cowed by such cowardly acts, which only serve to renew our commitment to overcome all forms of violence, oppression and discrimination. They said in the midst of the gloom and pain, they have received an outpouring of support and a shoulder to lean on from various quarters to who they are indebted. “The last 48-hours, have marked an unfortunate moment in all our lives as a nation and as a business. It has been a rather traumatic experience, that we would wish to erase from our minds but we cannot afford to forget,” read part of the statement. “The management of 14 Riverside, wishes to offer our sincere condolences and sympathy to the families and friends of our 21 brothers and sisters, who lost their lives following the attack. We are praying and wishing for a speedy and full recovery to all those who were injured.” See more: Four staff of DusitD2 died in terror attack, three seriously injured In the statement signed by the communications officer, Alfred Ng'ang'a, the management condemned in the strongest terms possible the heinous terrorist attack. “We wish to profoundly thank the government led by President H.E. Uhuru Kenyatta, and especially commend the Kenyan security forces for their rapid response, courageous and swift containment of the situation,” Ng'ang'a said. Read: Last 19 missing after Dusit attack now accounted for - Red Cross He also thanked all the humanitarian agencies including the Kenya Red Cross Society, St John Ambulance, and Rotary Club among others for their support, Ng'ang'a said their immediate concern is comforting of all affected families. He said the management was grateful to the selfless Kenyans who donated blood and volunteered in offering help during that difficult period. Ng'ang'a said they have asked their staff to be patient and allow the relevant authorities to complete their investigations and adhere to their security restrictions. Read: Dusit attack revenge for US declaration of Jerusalem as Israel's capital - Shabaab Also see: Riverside attack: Prioritise victims’ needs, Human Rights Watch tells state Click here for the latest political news