Embu Governor Martin Wambora yesterday cemented his place among masters of survival after the Supreme Court confirmed his 2017 re-election. Wambora’s nine lives were at play: The Supreme Court dismissed an appeal filed by rival Lenny Kivuti. The ruling, read by Justice Mohamed Ibrahim, said Kivuti’s application lacked merit. Wambora’s election was nullified by the High Court in February last year but the Court of Appeal overturned the decision. Judges William Ouko, Daniel Musinga and Fatuma Sichale said the burden of proof was not discharged by Kivuti. They said Justice William Musyoka erred in invalidating Wambora’s election. “We found no basis upon which to interfere with the appellate court’s decision,” Ibrahim said. Wambora was happy with the ruling and promised to concentrate on work. “The will of the people of Embu has been upheld by the highest court in the land. We thank God, the Judiciary and our lawyers. It is work from now on,” he said. Musyoka had cited irregularities during vote recount and scrutiny as the reason for nullifying the election. He said the irregularities compromised the integrity of the election. Embu politicians and religious leaders yesterday welcomed the ruling and asked Wambora to work with Kivuti. Senator Njeru Ndwiga, 2017 senate aspirant Alexander Mundigi and pastor James Mugo congratulated Wambora for winning the petition. They asked the governor to serve all residents equally, regardless of whom they supported in 2017. “Embu is thirsty for development because we have stalled for a long time due to the court case,” Mugo said by phone. He is a pastor at Great Commission Centre in Embu town. He asked the governor to unite residents for peace and development. Ndwiga called on Kivuti to accept the verdict of the court. “We should now focus on development and not politics. All the residents and leaders should unite in developing our county,” the senator said. Mundigi asked residents to accept the ruling and get down to work. He lamented that the prolonged court cases had derailed Wambora’s performance. “Wambora has no excuse now. He should work hard to realise his election promises,” Mundigi said.