Football Kenya Federation (FKF) National Super League enters Match Day 11 tomorrow with Ushuru hosting Bidco United at Ruaraka in Nairobi. Ushuru remain unbeaten after 10 matches, having won eight and drawn two. The tax men lead the log with 26 points. Ushuru coach Ken Kenyatta hopes his side will continue with their extraordinary run in the campaign as they seek to return to the top flight league. “I’m happy with the performance of the boys so far but I don’t want them to be carried away. The league is a marathon,” said Kenyatta. Second-placed Wazito will be up against Modern Coast Rangers at Camp Toyoyo at 4pm in a game that will be preceded by an encounter between win-less Kibera Black Stars and Kenya Police at 2pm. Earlier in the day, Administration Police and St. Joseph’s Youth will square it out in the first match of the day at Camp Toyoyo. Third-placed FC Talanta will battle unbeaten Nairobi Stima at Karuturi grounds. Nairobi Stima’s assistant coach Evans Mafuta says they are prepared and praying for a win against Talanta. “Talanta are a good team but we have prepared well to face them,” said Mafuta. He confirmed that striker Patrick Mugendi has returned from the US, where he attended a series of trials. “His return will boost our attack,” he added. Eldoret Youth and Kisumu All Stars will battle it out at Eldoret Show ground. The two teams recorded mixed results over the weekend with Kisumu edging Shabana 2-1 and Eldoret Youth losing 2-0 against Bidco United away in Thika. In other matches scheduled for tomorrow, Fortune Sacco welcome Migori Youth at Thika Stadium at 2pm while former top flight league side Thika United hosts Nairobi City Stars two hours later. Migori Youth are yet to taste a win in the league so far. Bottom of the log Green Commandos and fellow strugglers face off at Bukhungu Stadium. Shabana’s game against Coast Stima was pushed to today following the unavailability of Kericho Green Stadium, where Zoo Kericho will be hosting AFC Leopards tomorrow in Premier League tussle.