Kenya’s Kelvin Cheruiyot biggest new year present was the opportunity granted to him by the organisers of the Australian Open to be part of the extravaganza last week. While the focus all over the world was on the bigwigs, Cheruiyot is just grateful that he was present to see it all unfold. And yes! From Roger Federer fans to those supporting Rafael Nadal or even the Queen of the Court Serena Williams and the eventual winner Novak Djokovic, the event did not disappoint. The 22-year-old Cheruiyot, who moved to Australia last year after the Davis Cup to improve on his training, was one of the hitting partners in the tournament and rightly so, the only Kenyan to have been involved in a grand slam after Sheil Kotecha debut in Wimbledon Junior tournament last year. A hitting partner is player used by main players to practice strokes during training and one can only qualify for the role if his or her application is accepted by organisers. Cheruiyot, who is seen as the next big thing in Kenyan tennis, was lucky enough to get a slot for the role. He has so far been training with seeded and experienced women players and says the experience has been great. “The experience has been amazing. I really thank God for having graced the event. I learned a lot of skills from the best in the world and I believe I am not very far off. Having interacted with them motivates me even more to chase my dream,” He said. Cheruiyot admits it’s possible to get to such levels of tennis with proper support though he is quick to point out it is not a walk in the park. However, he believes corporates should step up and support local tennis especially after the country’s feat in Davis Cup last year. He says the team that won the Davis cup can challenge any team in the world as long as they received enough support from sponsors. “We need corporates to step up and support us. We won last year’s Davis Cup with little support and you can imagine what we can do with enough support. It might take long but if we get full support, we will get there,” he said. Kelvin says one of the outstanding trait from the best players across the globe is their involvement in many tournaments hence their superb skill display. He admires Rafael Nadal, commonly known as King of Clays, and he says he was glad to catch a glimpse of him training in the tournament. “It was the best feeling ever in 2019. I also watched Federer in training and it was so amazing,” he said. Cheruiyot is expected back in the country next month to kick off preparations for the 2019 Davis Cup and believes they can successfully defend their title. Coach Rosemary Owino said It was a big honour for Cheruiyot to feature in the Kenya Open as hitting partner. She said Cheruiyot had gained a lot in terms of experience and the opportunity will no doubt help him become even a better player before the 2019 especially during the Davis Cup. “Any player would love to be a hitting partner in Australia Open considering the experience one is bound to gain,” said Owino, who was named coach of the year during the Soya Awards mid this month.