Despite carrying a slim one goal advantage to the Caf Confederations Cup playoff return leg, Gor Mahia coach Hassan Oktay banks on his charges ameliorated form and fitness to storm to the group stages of the tournament. Since taking over the reigns at the club, Oktay hasn’t shied from complaining of the playing unit’s wanting fitness levels which he linked to lack of enough pre-season training sessions after the tour to United Kingdom where the club played Everton in an international friendly match. However, the Turkish coach strongly believes the recent fitness improvement noted in the past matches will be highly relied on when they play Cameroon-based New Star de Doula tomorrow in the return match. A win or a draw of any margin will guarantee K’Ogalo a place in the group stages. Oktay dismissed claims of employing a defensive approach in the last match and exuded optimism in defying odds to register a convincing away win. He said: “When I took over, the team had fitness issues emanating from poor pre-season but I am happy we are improving day in, day out. We will be going for a win in Cameroon despite playing away and missing key players. I am not worried of the meagre advantage on our side as I believe we will dominate the game and win the match.” Gor warmed up for the match with a routine 4-1 league victory over Mt. Kenya United on Wednesday, where Oktay rested nine of the players who played in the first leg save for the duo of Francis Kahata and Shafik Batambuze. The tactician, who will once again miss the duo of Harun Shakava and Joash Onyango thanks to a two-match suspension, explained the decision to overlook his priced stars for the mid-week league match, saying the rotation would hand them a rest ahead of the return leg. “I could not gamble ahead of the crucial match. I had to give the rest of the players the chance to express themselves.” At the same time, Oktay challenged Ivorian striker Ephrem Guikan to step up his goal scoring prowess after replacing him barely 43 minutes into the game for Dennis Oliech —a decision which did not augur well with him as he left straight to the changing room.