Ruto diehard supporter Dennis Kiptoo has been arrested, NCIC secreatarty Hassan Mohammed has said. Mohamed in a statement on Tuesday said Kiptoo was found in Kericho. He has been on the run since January 9. Kiptoo was being sought by the police after posting an inciting statement on Twitter saying there would be chaos if Deputy President William Ruto does not ascend into power in 2022. He further insisted that the Kikuyu community should "pay up their debt" by supporting the presidency of Ruto in 2022. Read: Police hunt for diehard Ruto supporter behind hate speech tweet "He will be arraigned in court as soon as possible to answer to charges of ethnic contempt contravening provisions of the |National Cohesion Act and Integration Act 2008," Mohamed said. Mohamed further said the commission has noted with concern that the current political situation is irresponsible, unfortunate and untenable. He said if the situation is not dealt with, the current political dynamics will roll back the gains unity and peace made over the years. "NCIC continues to condemn increasing level of ethnic and political polarisation, intolerance and hooliganism during this heightened 2022 succession politics," Mohamed said. "Therefore, the commission together with other security agencies will not relent in ensuring that hatemongers face the law. We are calling on all Kenyans to embrace tolerance, restraint and respect diversity," he added. The DP on Sunday during a church service in Naivasha asked all Jubilee leaders to focus on the Big Four agenda and stop politicking. President Uhuru Kenyatta on the other hand has asked the youth to shun tribalism and instead celebrate their different cultures. “We celebrate the coming together of our people. This generation is doing a tremendous things because they do not see barriers amongst them. They see the person they went to school with and the person they work with. That is whom they respect. That is who they fall in love with and marry,” Uhuru said on Saturday. Read: Uhuru calls on the youth to reject tribalism Also read: Uhuru meets Ruto, warns against early campaigns