Kariobangi Sharks are not worried with the giant killing antics being exhibited by Tanzania’s Mbao FC as they seek to ensure the SportPesa Cup returns home. The two sides clash today in the semi finals at the National Stadium Dar-es-salaam. Mbao, who are deemed as the tournament’s surprise package, defied all odds to eliminate defending champions Gor Mahia 4-3 on post-match penalties but their ability to upset elite teams will count for nothing when they confront Sharks, who also tossed out 27-time Tanzanian champions Yanga with 3-2 score line. Last year, the Mwanza-based outfit shocked Tanzanian champions Simba, beating them by a solitary goal and this week they proved they were no football pushovers serving the Kenyan champions with shocker in the quarter finals of the ongoing tournament to book a date with Sharks. However, Sharks coach William Muluya is not afraid of their prowess and insists that both teams stand a chance of sailing to the final and winning the trophy. “I have keenly analysed their play and we as Sharks are not scared to play them. They played well against Gor Mahia which indicated that they are equal challengers of the title and we have to accord them maximum respect. Each team came to the tournament with the sole ambition of toasting the title and today’s match has no favourites.” Similarly Mbao FC coach Ali Bushiri, who admitted his side came into the tournament as underdogs, expressed his respect for Sharks and all teams who had enrolled for the tournament. “Being our first time in this tournament, I knew we had come as underdogs but full of determination to win our matches. We respect each and every participating team in this tournament and we hope for the best in the semis. My players played well against Gor Mahia and we are looking forward to carry the same in today’s match.” The presence of former Everton and South Africa’s attacking midfielder Stephen Pienaar on the stands is expected to spice up the match as players from either sides will wish their displays to meet his eye and the scouts hover around in search of talents.