President Uhuru Kenyatta on Tuesday said a central database of all persons will be established from which regional and county commanders will get official details of persons in Kenya. Uhuru said each person will be provided with a unique number known as a Huduma Number which will be generated by the National Integrated Identity Management System. County commissioners will be required to coordinate the system. Uhuru also directed the newly appointed regional, county commissioners and police commanders to work in unity so as to achieve the government agenda The President gave the new appointees added responsibility placing them at the summit of all government agendas in their respective regions, including security. “You must be the lead officers in the national government development agenda,” Uhuru said. He spoke when he met the new appointees at State House Mombasa. Read: Government recruiting agents for single ID registration The President issued an executive order directing the regional commissioners to chair weekly Regional Development Implementation Committees and report the same to him. County commissioners will also be required to do the same at the county level. “The directive is to increase efficiency, reduce wastage, ensure prudent use of resources and enable effective service delivery,” Uhuru said. He asked the RCs to protect public resources as if they were their own and fight corruption with integrity. Uhuru said they should ensure the government policy of 100 per cent transition from primary schools to secondary schools. He said the RCs will be held responsible for any environmental degradation as they are expected to protect all forests and other natural resources. “Do not expect and wait to be directed. You must take action,” Uhuru said. The county commissioners will also be expected to ensure the proper implementation of County Action Plans for prevention and countering of violent extremism. Uhuru said the RCs and CC will play a big role in the realization of the Big Four Agenda. “We depend on you,” he told them. Click here for the latest political news