A mother begged a court yesterday to free her son accused of killing his elder brother in Dandora. “I lost my husband 20 years ago and I have lost three sons. One was killed in Saudi Arabia, another was killed by thugs in Dandora and now one killed by his brother,” Lilian Odera told principal magistrate Eunice Opondo. The losses are terribly painful, she said. Erick Odera, a university student, allegedly assaulted his elder brother Victor Martin on Christmas Eve last year. According to prosecution reports, Lilian had sent Erick to buy milk. He left his brother (Victor) sleeping and when he came back, he discovered that his wallet containing Sh400, was missing. The reports said Erick told the police he checked his pockets before he turned on his brother and accused him of stealing the money. “The accused then started beating up his brother before their mother tried to separate them, but Odera had already overpowered his elder brother,” the reports read. Erick went outside, picked up two sticks of firewood and beat his brother unconscious, the reports said. The mother Lilian and neighbours rushed Victor, who was bleeding from his mouth and nose, to hospital. He was pronounced dead upon arrival. The killing was reported to the police and after investigations, Erick was arrested and charged with manslaughter. Erick, who was arraigned at a Makadara court yesterday, pleaded not guilty and was granted Sh200,000 bond. “I buried my son late in December and it is painful because Erick is the only one I have now. Please leave him for me,” Lilian pleaded with the court. She asked the court to allow her to continue living with her only surviving son. Lilian said Erick is her youngest and she is the only one taking care of him. He is a student at Moi University The magistrate requested a prebail report. “I have seen the mother is the one suffering, having lost a son in the fight. I will review bond terms after a prebail report is availed,” Opondo said. The report is expected on January 28.