These series of articles headlined Annus horribilis [Latin phrase meaning horrible year], are complementary to annus mirabilis, which means "wonderful year". Paul Virilio, in his book Speed and Politics, says, “The revolutionary contingent attains its ideal form not in the place of production, but in the street, where for a moment it stops being a cog in the technical machine and itself becomes a motor (machine of attack), in other words a producer of speed." Emerging Markets were a train smash in 2018 and "are tentatively picking themselves up from the floor after a rout that’s wiped about $5 trillion off the value of stocks since a high in January 2018'' [Bloomberg Economics]. “The theory is dead simple: emerging-market assets have already bombed, so the downside, if things get worse, is much lower and if things recover they have greater potential to perform,” said Anthony Peters, an independent analyst, formerly at Blockex. However, “they have the potential to go much lower for much longer than anybody had ever thought possible.” I recall being at a presentation last year given by Standard Chartered's Chief Economist Razia Khan and every single African sovereign bond issuer was clustered within 50 basis points of each other. For some reason the phrase ''If it makes no sense it must be nonsense'' kept popping into my head. Since 2008 the markets have been firehosed in a tidal wave of liquidity. The chart that Razia showed that day was the most extreme example of the consequences of that liquidity firehose. From the Dow Jones to the German Dax to EM and SSA sovereign spreads, we are in the midst of the ''Great Unwind'' from a decade-long liquidity firehose. I'm not suggesting we are headed into Mellon doctrine Territory. Mellon believed that economic recessions, such as those that had occurred in 1873 and 1907, were a necessary part of the business cycle because they purged the economy. In his memoirs, Hoover wrote that Mellon advised him to "liquidate labor, liquidate stocks, liquidate the farmers, liquidate real estate. Purge the rottenness out of the system. High costs of living and high living will come down. ... enterprising people will pick up the wrecks from less competent people." The lesson is, the markets will be more ''Darwinian''. It will reward winners and punish losers. In the case of the BRICS, Brazil was a big out-performer last year. China has rerouted a lot of its agri-demand in their direction as well. They have been a winner so far in the tariff war. However, we have all noted how a bump can morph into a slump real quick - Just look at Trump. Russia under Putin has proven resilient but another swoon lower in oil will surely test its mettle. India has an election and Prime Minister Modi seems to be losing his shine. China's Shanghai Index was the worse performing Index in the World in 2018. These are indeed choppy waters for the BRICS at the macro level. We will have to dig deeper to ear our returns. There is a lot of growth in these economies, You just have to position yourself in the right place. Africa had a tough time in 2018. Borrowing costs spiked higher, currencies lost ground against the Dollar and stock markets retreated. South Africa and Nigeria go to the polls in 2019. Both Economies have been slow and need a positive catalyst. President Ramaphosa has made steady progress in rolling back the ''Zupta'' state and trying to put the Rainbow Nation on an even keel. Nigeria is at risk of being walloped by a lower oil price. Ivory Coast and Ghana have been a bright spot. Abiy's Ethiopia continues to lead the GDP charge and will be the fastest growing economy in the world in 2019. In Kenya, we popped towards 6% GDP on good rains, the Shilling performed better than the Yen but the stock market retreated around 24%. In Tanzania, Investors are having to price in a ''Magafuli'' haircut. Last Year the best trades to have done in the markets was to have bought one year Government of Egypt or GOK T-Bills and run the currency risk. Both trades achieved double digit dollarised returns. 93% of all investments world-wide last year were underwater [Deutsche Bank]. So I think wherever you are you need to get a lot closer to the Ground. In the case of the Continent, if you are not on the Continent, then i am afraid you know nothing. 