A mentally ill girl from Kilifi County has won an international
award in the Global special Olympics games held in Chicago USA late last year. Mitchel Mapenzi 18 who completed Standard 8 after
learning at the Konjora  primary school in
Kibarani ward Kilifi for mental health students special unit won the medal for
her extra performance in saving goals for her team during the tournament held
in July last year. Her soccer team of integrated players (both mental ill
and normal) from Kilifi County emerged fourth out of the eight teams which
played but she was recognized as the best goal keeper in the tournament held
between July 17 and 21. Journalists toured the school yesterday and managed to
come face to face with Mapenzi and her trainer Nicholus Kai at the school. On outside look one can easily not detect that the 18
year old is mentally ill as she appears to be like the normal person. An excited but shy Mapenzi could not hide her joy for
getting the award in Chicago something that has changed her life and even the
perception of the society about mental ill persons. The girl from a poverty stricken family was initially
being discriminated and neglected for her state but now has become a darling of
everyone due to her achievement. Last year she did the KCPE and scored 198 marks. This
year she will be joining form one at Kiwandani secondary school “I started my career of Special Olympics in 2014, my
interests were in football soccer and specifically goalkeeper,’’ she said. Mapenzi could barely express herself freely during this
interview due to her condition. However it’s clear on her looks that the trip to the
United States remains a memorable one and that has become a turning point to
her life. Apart from the adventure and interacting with other
mental ill persons in the tournament abroad the society now looks at her as a
role model. Instead of discriminating her each person now wants to
be associated with her as a ‘celebrity’. She revealed that her parents have been very cooperative
with her since childhood and have never mistreated her like others who are suffering
in the society because of their health condition. Mapenzi said the parents are very supportive and are
willing to support her to complete her secondary education and pursue her dream
career. Kai her trainer and mental ill teacher said Mapenzi made
the team proud for the success. He said the girl was among a team selected by FIFA football
for hope package that aims at training those with mental challenges. He said the program was launched in three counties
Kajiado, Makueni and Kilifi. “Kilifi  has many
programs , we managed to get training of coaches done at Pwani university  that lasted one week , we begun looking for
athletes and partners ,’’ he said. Kai who is a coach at the Special Olympic Kenya said he
has received so many training in the country and now has been elevated to the
level of a trainer. Currently he trains coaches on Special Olympics and it’s
through that that he introduced Mitchel in 2014 to the sports. “She liked football and mostly goalkeeping, she serves
as the keeper at Konjora primary school, and also plays for Kilifi north sub
County  team,’’ he said. The journey to Chicago he said begun after FIFA in
partnership with Special Olympics to initiate a unified Special Olympics in
2017. He said Mapenzi’s school team and the sub county won the
tournament of football for hope in Kilifi North Sub County. “There was a plan for special Olympics to have a unified
cup in Chicago. Kilifi County had a trained team and it was selected to go for
the tournament,’’ he said. Kai said Mapenzi during the tournament saved so many goals
and exhibited experience, skills which earned her the ‘Golden Globe award,’’ he
said. When they came back to Kenya he said the Ministry of
sports gave each player including Mapenzi Sh. 50,000 as a prize. Ends 