Happiness, hope and joy was written all over the faces of the hundreds of city residents who gathered at Uhuru Park Grounds to witness the swearing-in of Governor Mike Sonko on Monday, August 21, 2017. The residents were pregnant with hope and expectations after the mainly disappointing reign of his predecessor Evans Kidero. The city was choked with garbage, roads were pathetic, taps had run dry and traffic jams were unbearable. Sonko and then Deputy Governor Polycarp Igathe, a technocrat, pledged to transform the city. But after barely four months in office, things started falling apart. Igathe, who was expected to be the engine behind the envisaged transformation and development of the county, dramatically resigned from his position on January 31 last year. He posted on Twitter that his stay at City Hall was no longer tenable as he had failed to earn the trust of his boss. Igathe's resignation exposed Sonko's weak underbelly and signaled what was to be an erratic leadership style from the city boss. His reign, one year later, has been marked by controversies, chaos and confusion. Sackings, suspensions and public bashing of county workers have been the order of the day at City Hall. The city boss has run into trouble with senior government officers, MCAs and county employees, including his closest allies, some of whom tirelessly campaigned for his election in 2017. He has failed to nominate a deputy governor despite the Supreme Court giving him the nod and MCAs threatening to impeach him. In May last year, he appointed deported lawyer Miguna Miguna. But the Canada-based lawyer was flatly rejected by the county assembly. After Miguna's appointment, the governor shifted to his Mua Hills home in Machakos, where he has been operating from. He claimed his life was in danger after he 'quarrelled' with Interior CS Karanja Kibicho. He accused the PS of trying to micro-manage him and the affairs of the county government. His bodyguards were scaled down from 20 to five. “I want to tell this PS, who has been fighting me, that he will not succeed in his attempts to put me at loggerheads with Kikuyu community,” Sonko said in April. Today, the governor runs his cabinet on half cabinet due to his random suspension and sacking of county executives. Out of the 10 dockets, only five have substantive executives. Other executives have been suspended over allegations of corruption, incompetence and disloyalty. Education executive Janet Ouko and her Finance counterpart Allan Igambi are the latest to call it a day at City Hall. The two were considered Sonko's closest lieutenants and trusted officers. Their resignations on Monday, therefore, came as a shocker to many. Sources intimated that Ouko resigned after Sonko picked up a quarrel with her on Sunday night over the handling of bursaries. Igambi, who was the managing director of Lilian Towers, a hotel Sonko rented for several months in the run-up to the August 7 elections, was also said to have been fed up by the governor's endless quarrels. MCAs have complained that the suspensions are jeopardising smooth operations of the county government and delivery of services. In November last year, ICT executive Emma Muthoni, a flight attendant who was moved to the docket from Environment in a reshuffle, was silently kicked out of City Hall. Her resignation was never made public by the governor or his communication officers. Sonko's daring suspension that attracted public criticism came on September 19 last year. He sent home Devolution and acting Health executive Vesca Kangogo for "contradicting him over the mass infants' deaths" at Pumwani hospital. Kangogo was suspended alongside county secretary Peter Kariuki, who was seconded to City Hall by State House, Health chief officer Mahat Jimale and county attorney Lydia Kwamboka — her lawyer and close friend of many years. Two days earlier, the governor had unearthed bodies of 11 dead infants stuffed into boxes at the facility. Heath officers and the public criticised him over the discovery after it emerged that the facility did not have a cold room to keep the bodies. On August 1, he sent home Health executive Hitan Majevdia and director Thomas Ogaro over alleged incompetence. In April, he sacked Finance executive Danvas Makori for allegedly spying for Kidero at City Hall. Sonko has made several reshuffles in his cabinet. He has sacked more than 300 county workers, including senior directors and chief officers. Sonko has not only run into troubles with the county officers. He has torn into MCAs perceived as critics of his administration. In June, Kitusuru MCA Alvin Palapala claimed his life was in danger after he was attacked by supporters allied to the governor in Kangemi. Sonko's communication officer Elkana Jacob claimed Palapala had abused the governor's late mother. He also accused Makongeni MCA Peter Imwatok, his fiercest critic, of embezzling bursary funds and money meant for refurbishing a playground in his ward. Sonko's greatest trouble and criticism came on December 3, when his decision to ban matatus from the CBD caused pain and suffering to the commuters. The elderly, sick and children suffered as they walked for long distances to the CBD. He was accused of making unilateral decisions and subjecting the residents to undue suffering.