Two brothers charged with obtaining credit worth Sh210 million by false pretence may get a reprieve after the office of the DPP filed an application to withdraw charges against them. Former chairman of BAPS Shri Swaminarayan Mandir temple in Nairobi Harrish Kanabar and his brother Kirit Bhagwadash Karnabar have been charged with obtaining Sh210 million fraudulently from Hitesh Pravin Dave. The offence was commited between July 30, and November 13, 2015. The accused pretended they could renovate his apartments in Mombasa. On Friday, prosecutor Jacinta Nyamosi told Kiambu Principal Magistrate Justus Kituku that the DPP intended to withdraw the matter for further review and direction. Hiteshi, a real estate developer and who is the main complainant, through lawyer Joe Murage, opposed the application, terming it ill-advised more so after one witness had already testified. Murage said Section 87(A) the prosecution was relaying on to withdraw the case could only be relied on if the State had failed to procure witnesses or did not have adequate evidence. “No explanation has been made before you as to why the prosecution seeks to withdraw the charges against the two. The constitution guarantees my client his rights to justice,” Mr Murage said. The lawyer told the court to decline the application, saying it was unfortunate that no notice was given to the complainant as it is him who suffers and continues to suffer. He said it would only be fair for the application to be made formally so that the complainant could be granted the opportunity to respond and submit before the court made ruled on the matter. “The charges that are being faced are grave and should be treated with the same gravity when such a weighty decision is being made,” he said. The lawyer said that withdrawing the charges and re-instituting them later would be according an opportunity to one of the accused who is not a Kenyan to flee. The prosecution maintained that the DPP had the power to withdraw a matter in court at any stage. “We have even given an explanation that we are not withdrawing for the sake of it but the DPP needs to review the evidence. That does not mean the case cannot be filed afresh. We are not biased against anyone but trying to be fair to all,” Nyamosi said. She said there is nothing that demands a formal application to withdraw a matter in court. According to Nyamosi, the defence had not indicated under which law the prosecution was required to make a formal application to withdraw the matter. She maintained that she had not overstepped her mandate. Defence lawyer Kyalo Bobo supported the application to withdraw charges and dismissed claims that one of the accused was not a Kenyan. “The information by the defence lawyer is not correct,” he said.