The stalled Sh1 billion Kitale Referral Hospital will be completed within this new year, Trans Nzoia governor Patrick Khaemba has said. Khaemba said MCAs have approved fresh financing for the project. The project stalled a year ago due to wrangles in financing. The governor promised to speed up works on the project. “We had a hitch when MCAs reduced the budget for the project from Sh300 million to Sh200million but that has now been sorted out,” Khaemba said In a statement issued on his behalf by deputy governor Stanley Kenei yesterday. He said the MCAs had approved a supplementary budget for the initial Sh300 million and that contractors would soon resume work. MCAs had visited the project and expressed their satisfaction with the work in progress. Khaemba said more than Sh40 million had also been set aside for completion of the Kitale bus park. The two officials denied claims that key county projects have stalled due to corruption. The governor said the county had no white elephants and that funds had been set aside for the completion of all projects initiated since he took office in 2013. “We have no stalled projects or massive corruption as claimed by our rivals. All planned projects are on course and will be completed,” Kenei said. Khaemba said his administration does not condone graft. He said officers involved in acts of corruption had been prosecuted. “We have ongoing cases and its wrong for some individuals to peddle lies or propaganda using such cases,” Khaemba said. The county has within the last one month faced heavy criticism from politicians and human rights activists who claim there was increased loss of public funds due to corruption. Kenei said some of the reports on graft were based on 2013-14 audit queries which Khaemba had answered at the Senate. “The governor was summoned to the Senate and he did answer all queries to the satisfaction of the senators,” he said. The governor urged political leaders to unite and implement key projects to reduce poverty levels in the county.