The teachers' strike will proceed on Thursday as the talks between their union and the TSC collapsed. Kenya National Union of Teachers secretary general Wilson Sossion said on Tuesday, they are left with no option but to carry on with the strike after the employer snubbed talks. The TSC failed to show up for a joint meeting to enable face-to-face negotiations "We have been committed to this process from inception. But where is the employer? Where is the honesty of the employer?" Sossion asked. The court stopped the teachers' strike. Justice Byram Ongaya directed parties to engage in dialogue. The TSC had sought ex-parte orders barring the giant union from mobilising teachers to go on strike. But Nominated MP Sossion said solving industrial dispute needs genuine engagement at the negotiating table. Also read: Teachers to go on strike when schools open on January 3 - Sossion Citing the example of doctors' strike, Sossion said every time employers have gone to court to force their way and have workers stopped from industrial action failed. The union issued a strike notice on December 19 by writing to Labour CS Ukur Yatani. Sossion also wrote a circular on December 30 instructing teachers not report to work because their demands have not been met. "We shall not resume duty until all our issues are resolved to the full satisfaction of the Kenyan teachers," he said. The union's grievance against their employer TSC are on issues relating to delocalisation policy, teachers' promotions, teachers' professional development modules and scrap performance contracting. On December 18, the TSC ignored protests from teachers’ unions and announced the transfer of 3,094 head teachers countrywide. Head teachers of primary and secondary schools who were moved, had been at one workplace for more than nine years. They were to hand over by December 28. The Cabinet Secretary formed a conciliation team to help mediate between the commission and the union. Click here for the latest political news  