Just why did President Uhuru Kenyatta (pictured) postpone his tour of Kisii scheduled for January 23? We are told the President could have received intelligence that advised against the timing of the visit. Apparently, most of the projects he was to commission had either not been completed to the standards required for a presidential launch or were not strategic. One of the projects is the new 100-body morgue built by the county government and the new 300-bed facility at Kisii Level 6 Teaching and Referral Hospital. Social media has been awash with all manner of claims, including that the trip was shelved because the hospital wing wasn’t complete. This would have left the President’s tour vulnerable to attacks since he would have been forced to only commission the morgue.  A National Intelligence Service officer attached to the President seems to be abusing his position. We are told the man, always in the presidential advance team, has been listening to people’s calls and using that information to harass and intimidate them. It is unclear how or where he listens to the calls but some victims say this has been going on for some time.  Is NLC chairman Muhammad Swazuri against the commission’s decision to hand Deputy President William Ruto the Weston Hotel built on public land? Someone from the commission confided that the embattled chairman was strongly against allowing Ruto to keep the hotel, which is built on Kenya Civil Aviation Authority’s land. Swazuri is said to have made up his mind that the land was grabbed long ago after examining the history of its ownership. He was then seen as a stumbling block. It has emerged that the decision by the NLC commissioners to clear Weston may not pass the integrity threshold amid talk there were nasty behind-the-scenes intrigues.  Are Deputy President William Ruto’s allies in the Cabinet planning to openly defy President Uhuru Kenyatta’s order that elevated Interior CS Fred Matiang’i to head the development wing of the government? It has emerged that some CSs allied to Ruto have vowed not to give Matiang’i space, in what may sabotage the President’s plan to secure his legacy. While Matiang’i is understood to have written to some CSs to provide his office with status update reports on development projects, some are said to be resisting. Isn’t this playing with fire, when the consequences are clear? It would appear to be a deliberate attempt to shut down government? It is only a matter of time before the rebellion becomes public. Other CSs are said to have written back to Matiang’i, outlining the projects their dockets are implementing.