The National Parents Association yesterday threatened to take action against school heads charging parents extra fees. “We have asked parents to give us names of schools that are seeking extra funds from parents so that we can forward the names to the ministry for appropriate action,” the association’s chairman Nicholas Maiyo said yesterday. A spot check by the Star yesterday revealed that even though principals have adhered to the ministry’s school fees guideline, they have found ways to overcharge on other admission requirements. One such case is a requirement in some schools that students buy uniforms in school on admission day. Parents are raising concern over hiked prices of the attires. Admission day 3 Parents also asked why schools such as Alliance Boys and Njabini have medical fees of between Sh500 and Sh1,000 in the fees structure yet this is catered for by the government. The government provides Sh1,090 per student annually to cater for NHIF cover. They questioned requirements asking students to buy at least one sports equipment, a ream of paper while other schools failed to provide a school fees clearance receipts with a breakdown of what funds are for. Parents whose children have been admitted reveal they had to part with almost double the normal fees thanks to a long list of items that include school uniform, dictionary, Kamusi Ya Kiswahili and passport size photographs. Form one admission enters the third day today. The Education Ministry in January last year nearly doubled funds to support learners in secondary schools from Sh12,870 to Sh22,244 per head and prohibited school heads from charging extra levies. Parents in boarding national and extra-county schools are required to pay a maximum of Sh53,554 while those in county schools are to pay a maximum of Sh40,535. In Njiiri Girls, for example, parents were required to pay Sh13,430 for their children to receive two pairs of uniforms. Form One admission letters from Koelel High School, Utumishi Boys, Naivasha Girls, Tumutumu Girls, Naro Moru Girls, Othaya Boys and Njabini Boys asked parents to buy Bibles, spring files, mathematical sets, dictionaries, atlases, pens, pencils and Kamusi, among other items. Secondary Education Levy According to Kenya Secondary Schools Heads Association chairman Indimuli Kahi, no extra levies should be incurred by parents apart from some few requirement acknowledged by the ministry. “School uniforms are a willing buyer willing seller kind of requirement no principal is should limit a learner or parent to buy it from them,” Kahi said yesterday. Secondary school principals had earlier urged the government to introduce a Secondary Education Levy to facilitate development programmes in schools that stalled following regulations capping school fees. The principals further suggested an increase in the amount of capitation from Sh12,870 per student to Sh20,000 to facilitate academics and infrastructure development. Through their association, the principals argue that the high cost of living and high inflation have led to a slowdown in the education sector, forcing schools to stop some projects. Some schools had acquired loans from commercial banks to put up new infrastructure or refurbish the existing ones.