Did ODM leader Raila Odinga snub a Nyanza legislator's football event minutes after confirming participation? Some people have told Corridors how a popular Nyanza MP who had organised a major youth tournament was disappointed by Raila's last-minute decision to give the event a wide berth. The opposition chief - our mole whispered - was attending a similar tournament in the same county when the lawmaker prevailed upon him to also attend the finals of his tournament which was delayed to allow the big guest attend. The NASA leader is said to have reluctantly agreed and even told the MP to prepare the ground promising to land immediately he was done with the first game.  *** As the debate rages on whether the handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga is genuine, the man who is rejoicing is former Presidential candidate Joseph Nyagah. On October 26, 2017, just after casting his vote, the  Independent Presidential candidate expressed his disappointment in Uhuru and Raila for failing to meet to find the way forward on the political stalemate that had rocked the country then. But his wish would come to pass in March last year when the two leaders agreed to bury their political differences in the now popular handshake. *** A war of words has erupted between a Cabinet Secretary and a senator - both from Rift Valley. According to a mole who is privy to the emerging political turf war, both have gubernatorial ambitions. The senator has been meeting MPs trying to woo them to his side. The legislators are torn between the two as the CS, on one hand, has money and a huge following in the county, the senator, on the other hand, has no money and is struggling with the support of the electorate in the sub-counties. *** A police sergeant manning traffic along Ngong Road near Ngong Hills Hotel has become a serious bother to city motorist. The male officer believed to be attached to Kilimani Police Station has devised new ways of demanding bribes. It is said that on the eve of Christmas, the man flagged down two motorists and lied to them that he had received a call from a colleague of his who was manning the Kenyatta National Hospital roundabout telling him that they had committed a traffic offence. When one of the motorists refuted the claims challenging him to drive together to the roundabout, the officer mumbled then turned to the driver of Toyota V8 who had refused to roll down his windows. Click here for the latest political news  