The government has banned the sale of molasses in Nairobi in the fight against illicit brews. “We don’t have livestock in Nairobi and I am certain the molasses sold here is used to make the brews,” regional commissioner Kang’ethe Thuku said. Molasses is used in the production of lethal brews, the administrator said. “Don’t take expired or fake alcohol because it will kill you. Recently, four people died after consuming illicit brew in Umoja and we will not allow that.” He ordered chiefs and their assistants to crack down on the brewers. He promised to talk with Nairobi governor Mike Sonko and some breweries’ management to revoke all licences for molasses. Thuku spoke in Nairobi yesterday while overseeing the burning of 391 gambling machines and 180 shisha pots confiscated from various parts of the city. The administrator said he was happy that women had come out to support the burning of gambling machines to save their marriages as many men used their money to gamble. He assured residents that the government will stop the importation of the machines and look out for those who manufacture them locally. “I urge community leaders to show us where they are made and we will arrest the culprits. We want to make sure families live in peace and security is there for all,” Thuku said. Read: Curbing illicit brews menace He said yesterday should be the last time the machines and pots were destroyed, urging everyone to behave responsibly. “If we accept to be compromised, we will not achieve anything in fighting gambling and illicit brew. Security management goals must be achieved”, the administrator said. Thuku cautioned traders selling counterfeit goods, saying stern action will be taken against them. He announced the state has formed a committee to see all eligible children attend school. The committee will move from house to house to ensure parents comply. Nacada director Joel Cherop said the authority supports the fight against gambling. “We need support from all stakeholders to fight this menace,” he said. He lauded deputy county commissioners for excellent security work throughout the Christmas holiday. Winnie Njoroge, a woman leader and resident of Githurai, said village leaders should be supported to take care of security in their areas. She supported the burning of gambling machines saying most youths had become addicted to the vice. “Our kids are our investment and we should take care of them. We support the initiative as it will reduce crime.” Click here for
the latest political news