 Our Constitution
guarantees every person has the right to acquire and own property in any part
of the country. However, the
Truth, Justice and Reconciliation Commission found in 2013 that discriminatory
cultural practices relating to access, use and ownership of land remain
persistent, despite these constitutional and legal provisions. These cultural
practices flare up during elections, when politicians use land and property
ownership by “outsiders” to whip up ethnic emotions and violence. The worst of
this was in 2008, when the country was at a verge of a civil war following the
stolen 2007 election. The government
has failed to address historical injustices going back to colonial days that
underlie these hostile and at times violent cultural beliefs and practices. The
TJRC found that the seeds of inequality and marginalisation were planted by the
colonial administration mostly through its “divide and rule” strategy. The
failure by subsequent governments and in particular the Jomo Kenyatta
government to correct this injustice by restoring communities to their lands
from which they were forcibly evicted from by the colonial government are
largely to blame Nowhere is this
more refined and delicate than in the Rift Valley, where the Kikuyus are often the
targets. Kiambaa church tragedy summed up how grave these threats can be in the
hands of politicians who incite the masses, although one can’t rule out organic
mobilisation within the community independent of the politicians. Be that as it
may, this must not be allowed to be the case and any politician or individual
who threatens or implies threats to harm or otherwise interfere with any
community’s property rights. It is very
clear that a strategy is emerging to create a narrative that only William Ruto
can protect the Kikuyus’ rights and interests in the Rift Valley, ostensibly
pursuant to some pact he had with Uhuru Kenyatta. This is a false and dangerous
narrative that cannot be allowed to spread. The President must nip it the bud
with help from Raila Odinga. It’s a false
narrative because it’s not an individual who protects anyone from owning land
or living anywhere in the country. The Constitution does. A President who
doesn’t protect these rights violets his oath of office and can therefore be
impeached. Even if you
were to assume — for the sake of an argument — that an individual could make a
difference in protecting Kikuyus rights in the Rift Valley, Ruto is obviously
not the only one who can do that. There are many others who can do that, again,
because it’s what the law requires. This narrative is
dangerous because of its implied threat that if he’s not president we’ll somehow
have forced displacement of innocent Kenyans from the region. That cannot
happen and it must never be allowed to happen. Put
differently, let those even criminally thinking about it know the consequences
against them would be and must be harsh. And this time we wouldn’t worry about the
ICC as we’ll take care of them locally. Meanwhile, the
President and Raila must do everything in their powers to make sure the
Building Bridges Initiative recommendations  are fully and promptly implemented. It’s a foregone
conclusion that a referendum is inevitable to cement this handshake deal and
that will be a good thing for the country. Meanwhile,
those interested in 2022 presidential election and their supporters must be
reminded not pursue their objectives by divisive means and certainly not by any
means that stoke violence or worse. That cannot be
tolerated and we’re confident the President will make sure that’s the case.  Samuel Omwenga is a legal analyst and political
commentator in the United States