Cash-strapped ODM is unable to move to new Lavington offices, and instead has sought a three-month tenancy extension to raise funds to finance relocation, the Star can reveal. Former Prime Minister Raila Odinga’s political vehicle had last year acquired a Sh170 million flashy property at the Nairobi’s upmarket area and was to move from Orange House by December 31. The new offices are situated along Convent Road, about 500 metres from Nasa principal Musalia Mudavadi’s ANC headquarters. According to party sources who spoke to the Star, the relocation has been hampered by lack of funds to fully acquire the new property, which will be owned by the party. “So far the party has paid Sh75 million and there is still pending a balance of Sh95 million. We were to move out of the current Orange house on 31 of last month and because we were unable to raise the remaining amount, the party sought a three-month extension from Caroli which he agreed. We should be vacating by end of March,” the source told the Star. If ODM acquires the property, it will be the only party operating from its own premises. As of now, the Orange party is still stuck at its expansive headquarters on Menelik Road in Kilimani, which is owned by former Raila aide Caroli Omondi. Caroli had last year, declined the renewal of the lease and gave the party up to the end of the year to vacate the premises, which it has occupied for nearly 12 years. Since its formation in 2006, ODM has been operating from the lone house sitting on an expansive compound, which is ideal for party’s meetings and conferences, and its from there that Raila’s 2007, 2013 and 2017 unsuccessful presidential bids were run. “We are hoping for the government through the Registrar of Political Parties will give us some money to enable us to clear the balance,” another source well versed with happenings at the Orange house added. But ODM Executive Director Oduor Ong’wen told the Star on the phone that the relocation was delayed by what he only termed as ‘few things’ without giving details. “We are still on course to move ... you know end of the year normally comes with distractions but we are moving. We have identified alternative space. There are just a few things to put in place,” Ong’wen said. On party funding he accused the office of the Registrar of Political parties of dragging feet in implementing the law to enable parties carry out their activities.