A father who smoked bhang to manage stress because he could not raise money to take his sick three month old baby to hospital yesterday denied being in possession of drugs. Daniel Obogi was accused of being in possession of bhang worth Sh225. Obogi instead accused two officers at the Central police station of demanding Sh6000 to release his vehicle. Obogi was on Thursday found smoking weed in his friend's car parked along Muindi Mbingu street near Jevanjee Gardens and police charged him with possession of five and a half rolls of the narcotic. But Obogi told senior principal magistrate Kennedy Cheruiyot that he had only one roll that he was smoking as usual to "treat pressure". He said his "pressure had risen" because his three months old baby was sick and he had not gotten money he expected to use for the baby's treatment. Cops also also accused Obogi of incitement to violence and resisting arrest. He was accused of willful prevention of lawful apprehension by the station's OC Crime Inspector Jane Kabuchwa and constable Dickson Gitonga on Thursday. However, Obogi accused Kabuchwa and Gitonga of insisting on using their breakdown to tow his car to the station despite him having offered to drive them to the station or allow his friend to drive the car to the station. He said the cops later demanded Sh6000 for towing his car to the station. Cheruiyot sought explanations on why the car was still detained by police "if it was not also smoking the bhang" prompting state prosecution counsel to call Gitonga to court. Gitonga said he had offered to drive Obogi to the station but he refused and became violent. He said his senior made arrangements for towing of the vehicle because of its security. But Cheruiyot was not convinced that Obogi should pay the Sh6000 for towing his car from a distance of less than one kilometre. Cheruiyot ordered the police to release the car and tell the owner of the breakdown to file a civil suit over non payment. The magistrate freed Obogi on a cash bail of Sh100, 000 and an alternative bond of Sh500, 000. The case will be mentioned on January 18, before hearing begins the following day. Read: Raila Junior wants weed legalised Click here for the latest political news