Problems at the Mumias Sugar Company are not about to end any time soon. The company is staring at another crisis as it seeks to return to full-capacity milling. Cane shortage is what might spell its doom. Mumias can crush 250,000 tonnes annually, but in recent years, it has been crushing about 70,000 tonnes annually, which is 40 per cent under capacity. The miller is bedevilled by financial crisis despite a Sh1 billion bailout by the government in 2015. “We’re keen on reviving the sugar company. We know it’ll benefit farmers. We strongly believe it will support the economy of the Western region,” President Uhuru Kenyatta said when he announced the bailout. He later presented a cheque for the amount to the company management. The occasion was witnessed by regional leaders who pledged to support its revival. At the time, Mumias pipes and boilers needed repair. Their sorry state had hurt production and there was an urgent need to fix them. Today, it owes farmers Sh700 million. In this backdrop, 76,000 farmers abandoned sugarcane farming and opted for other crops. Others were contracted or poached by rival millers. Only 20,000 farmers have stayed put. The company has appealed to those who opted to grow other cash crops to resume cane farming. Currently, the mill is closed apparently for maintenance, but the main reason is likely to be cane shortage. The company owes Kenya Power more than Sh2 billion in electricity bills. The KP disconnected power to the factory last September. Mumias is in talks with its managers to have the electricity restored. “We are negotiating with the management of the Kenya Power and we are optimistic that we will reach a solution soon so we can reopen the factory,” board chairman Kennedy Ngumbau said. They also owe lenders more than Sh20 billion. Ngumbau said they have come up with measures to allow a return to their heydays. They include paying farmers within seven days of cane delivery and cane development and management. “The Sh700 million we owe farmers will be paid up in full before the end of this month. I urge them to use part of their money to reinvest in cane development to sustain the mill,” he said. During last year’s Mashujaa Day celebrations, President Kenyatta called for the formation of a taskforce to look into the crisis facing the sector. It is co-chaired by Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri and Kakamega governor Wycliffe Oparanya. The President also ordered the Treasury to release Sh2.6 billion to cane farmers across the country. Ngumbau, a member of the task force, noted that the government has recommended far-reaching policies and structural changes to make the sector vibrant. They target to curb cane poaching and ensure prompt payment and proper cane pricing. “As the board and management of Mumias Sugar Company, we are pushing for policies that will benefit our farmers. The policies are the game changers, which the company needs to beat the competition,” Ngumbau said. He said the Treasury has approved at least 80 per cent of the turnaround plan. Despite the problems, board chairman Ngumbau is optimistic that the company will soon reclaim its lost glory. Click here for the latest political news