The government will train teachers on the new competency-based curriculum in to avoid disruption of its implementation. Director of projects coordination in the Ministry of Education, Elijah Mungai, said the pre-service training will deepen the preparation of teachers. He said this way, the government will be able to deliver a high-quality curriculum. “We have done a bit of training but we appreciate that we have an enormous task when it comes to preparation of teachers for the new curriculum,” Mungai said. He said the government has realised that it is only through intervention measures in pre-service training that the new curriculum will be efficiently implemented. Read: Knut wants curriculum reforms to focus on content, teaching, cost He was speaking at Technology Primary School in Murang’a town on Thursday during a benchmarking visit by a delegation of government officials from Zambia led by the General Education Principal Secretary Felix Phiri. Mungai said that the government has a lot to learn from Zambia which is far ahead in the implementation of the competency-based curriculum. “This is an opportunity to learn from them the challenges they have experienced and how they have been able to implement it,” he said. He said the Zambian education system has also been able to incorporate soft skills including life skills and community service learning in their curriculum and that the Kenyan government is keen to embed them in the local curriculum. Mungai said the government has so far distributed about 60 million books to schools and has managed to achieve a 1:1 book to students ratio. He said the ministry is intent on ensuring learners have maximum interaction with books and that the government is supplying the books to remove the burden of purchasing them from parents. Phiri lauded the use of technology in learning and the local teachers’ training system, saying that they hope the same will be implemented in his country. The delegation that arrived on Sunday has toured Nyeri, Nairobi and Murang’a Counties and will leave on Saturday. Read also: New curriculum doomed as teachers confused - Kuppet official See more: Private school teachers trained on new curriculum Click here for the latest political news