City Hall is on the spot over delays in implementation of county projects in the past financial years despite allocation of funds. The latest Citizen Report Card released by the National Taxpayers Association on Thursday states that certain county projects especially in informal settlements have stalled, been abandoned or are poorly done. NTA national coordinator Irene Otieno said some of those projects allocated hundreds of million of shillings from financial year 2016-2017 have not yet commenced. “Besides being allocated Sh20 million, there has been a delay of the rehabilitation of Korogocho Health Centre. The implementation of the project is yet to begin due to land issues,” Otieno said. She said the 2017-2018 status report revealed that the project was at procurement stage. Speaking during the launch of the report, Otieno further pointed out that street lighting projects which were installed are not functioning. In 2016 in Kabiro ward, there was a street lighting project that cost over Sh20 million which included the installation of 22 flood lights and 16 street lights on Muthiora Road. However, due to lack of maintenance, currently some of the lights are not functioning, leading to insecurity in the area. The report reveals that in 2016-17, there was construction of a ward administrator’s office in Gatina at a cost of Sh3.6 million which was listed as complete but without water and electricity connection. “The project was poorly implemented. The doors and windows were poorly fitted, cracks on the walls, ceiling board is falling out, toilets poorly constructed and floor and wall paint peeling off,” Otieno said. In the same 2016-2017 financial year, the construction Muthiora Road at Sh74 million has been questioned for lack of a pedestrian footpath and its narrow width. Phase two of the project was to start but there was little information about it. NTA also put on the spotlight electricity installation in Korogocho, saying there was no information on the funds allocated to the project. In 2017-2018, Sh15 million was set aside by the county government for the project. Otieno said the county allocated funds to the project yet it was being done in a partnership with the residents association and an Italian group. Korogocho modern social hall awarded Sh8.4 million in 2016-2017 is yet to be completed. Currently, the structure is used by a gang as a hideout. “Back in the financial year 2014-2015 the implementation of the project commenced and it was well done and workmanship was of the required standard . But as we speak, the hall is not serving its intended purpose and it is now under control of a gang,” the report states. NTA has called for all county government projects to be regularly inspected.