Form 1s began reporting to school yesterday amid disquiet from principals who are unhappy with the new management system. This year's admissions are unlike the past with only students identified by the National Education Management Information System enrolled to Form 1. The admissions will go on until the end of the week. Sources from the ministry said principals were against Nemis because it guards against inflation of student numbers. Some principals exaggerated their school's populations to increase the funding they receive from government. The government funds students through a capitation of Sh22,244 per head. The latest Auditor General's report says there are 3,000 ghost students in public secondary schools. Nemis is also aimed at ending underhand dishing of admission letters. Some principals are said to demand bribes before admitting students to their schools. Read: Principals free to alter Form One admissions Speaking to the Star yesterday, Kenya Secondary Heads Association chairman Indimuli Kahi welcomed the system, saying it was a game-changer in management. Kahi asked the government to ensure the data is used to improve quality of teaching and learning instead of micromanaging principals. "Just like a sack of potatoes, there's always a rotten one. Most headteachers are good but the few who are mischievous will have to amend in the wake of Nemis," Kahi said. Yesterday's admissions began in national and extra-county schools. It will include county and sub-county schools later in the week. A spot check by the Star showed admissions went on smoothly in most schools with the exception of minor connectivity challenges in the north. The registration through the online Nemis portal was supposed to take two minutes on average. Education Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed will today start countrywide tours to monitor the admission process. The ministry intends to ensure all the 1,052,364 candidates who sat last year’s KCPE exam progress to secondary school. Nemis will also alert the ministry when principals expel students from schools. The system demands they account for such dismissals by writing to the ministry. "Expulsion is illegal but principals have been doing it under the table. With Nemis, a headteacher can only transfer students with discipline issues because details captured at the ministry will reflect the student is still in the institution," a source at the ministry said yesterday. The government intends to use the system database in registering the students for medical cover. The National Hospital Insurance Fund cover was launched by President Uhuru Kenyatta in April last year. It wants all students in public secondary schools covered at a cost of Sh4.05 billion. Through the NHIF cover, the government will pay a premium of Sh1,350 per student for the three million students in public secondary schools. Students admitted yesterday were required to present their admission letters to enable principals to carry out verification through Nemis. The government has set aside Sh16 billion for infrastructure development in secondary schools in 2019. Read: Form One admissions off to smooth start in Kisumu Click here for
the latest political news