Peter Waweru has been known to the public by the stage name Virusi Mbaya for a long while now. He was born and raised in Kenya's largest slum Kibera, which is inextricably linked to crisis. From this fact, you can easily assume that Virusi has seen it all. The good thing is that he is one of the rappers who've turned their experiences into situations worth sharing with the world. In an attempt to change his life situation, he turned to music. He has been at it for a significant number of years, a testament to how he has grown as a creative with disparate interests — spoken word, poetry and rap. He has always addressed issues close to him, including those in the political, social and musical scope. Virusi's constructed approach to rap and poetry has earned him a reasonable fan base as well as critics. However, with the years he has been in the creative scene, you'd expect that he would have mastered a thing or two about pushing his content to the masses. Not much effort has gone to that, probably because he enjoys the space he occupies. One thing you pick from the poet is his willingness to admit imperfection, a theme that dominates his latest release "Form ni Kureform". His life greatly inspires his content, and his spoken-rap style ensures that his releases appear bright with the actual beauty existing in the lyricism. He is a master at wordplay. Virusi Mbaya emerged with a fully formed vibe of his own, with instances of pure rap and spoken word. His sound and lyricism, albeit fascinating, is yet to develop and requires more time to incubate. You expect that someone who had ties to top rapper Octopizzo would also want a piece of the cake, but somehow he doesn't seem to care much about it. However, we must admit that he is a strong artiste. Can Virusi grow to be one of the top emcees we have in the nation? It will depend with what he really wants for himself as an artiste. He has always shown all the hallmarks of a promise, but sometimes the music choices made do not live up to the comparison. Overall, if only he could figure out how to do it all just a little bit better, maybe he would be on another level with his career.