Police and human rights defenders in Mombasa started off 2019 on the ‘wrong’ footing after the killing of a 23-year-old man who police said was on their ‘most wanted’ list of suspected criminals. While the rights defenders accused police of being trigger happy and shooting Shaffi Salim Shaffi without hesitation, police say he was a wanted criminal. According to police, Shaffi was one of the most wanted criminals in Mombasa having been in the gangs that have been terrorising residents of Kisauni, Bamburi and Mtwapa. The officers say he has been on the wanted list since 2017. He was shot dead at Kidogo Basi area of Mwembe Kuku, Mvita constituency just before midnight on Tuesday. His family says he was a small scale businessman selling clothes and other small items. Muslims for Human rights rapid response officer Francis Auma said Shaffi used to operate a play station shop around the Mombasa Fire Station area. Auma said: “This is yet another case of extrajudicial killing.” Read: Human rights group protests killing of Mombasa youth According to police insiders, Shaffi, who was commonly known as ‘Shaffi Wa Fire’ by his cronies. He used to move around in a Toyota Fielder and was always in the company of his closest ally only known as Ahmed alias Ameto. The two had rented a house behind Coast Bus offices where they were operating from and where they stored most of their stolen goods. Haki Africa executive director Hussein Khalid said Shaffi was one of those who had surrendered to police and had reformed. “They had been given a project by Red Cross as part of their rehabilitation. They had been given a container opposite the Mombasa Fire Station to do business from,” said Khalid. “It was wrong for police to kill him. They should have arrested him because there are no reports that he was armed by the time of his arrest,” said the human rights defender. However, Urban police boss Eliud Monari told the Star the deceased has committed very many crimes and even had several cases against him in court. He said he was in the company of two others when he was being accosted. “One slipped away, another was arrested and this one was not so lucky. We recovered machetes and heroin sachets from them,” Monaro said. The one in police custody is Abdurahman Maki. Khalid said the DCI and the DPP should follow up on this matter keenly. “They have already committed themselves to ensure there will be no extrajudicial killings and if it happens action will be taken against perpetrators. We will be following up on this keenly,” said Khalid. Muhuri chairman Khelef Khalifa said police have turned against civilians and no longer value human lives. “Members of the public are caught between thugs and killer cops,” he said. “In the last few days we've witnessed so many killings that have put fear in people's minds that safety is no longer guaranteed,” he said. He urged police and members of the public to cooperate and end ‘this madness’. The shooting comes about 13 hours after gunmen attacked a shopkeeper along Biashara Street in Mwembe Kuku. They had a rifle and shot the shop attendant several times leaving him for dead before stealing money and other valuables. The whole incident was caught on CCTV and the footage has gone viral on social media. Shaffi has left behind a wife and a one-year-old child. He was set to be buried at Kikowani cemetery after the Dhuhr prayers at Masjid Marembo. In December last year, human rights groups, led by Haki Africa, and police had vowed to work together to end the extrajudicial killings, after a meeting at Kadongo Grounds in Mshomoroni. Click here for the latest political news 