Candidates scoring D+ in marginalised areas should be admitted to teacher training colleges, Education CS Amina Mohamed has said. The current minimum grade is C and above. Northeastern and other ASAL areas are desperately short of teachers who flee terror attacks, bandit raids and cattle rustling. They balk at returning; other teachers fear being posted there. The answer is hiring local residents until the situation returns to normal, Amina said in an interview with the Star in her office. She said admitting candidates from 2006 to last year with D+ scores will ensure every child has equal access to education as guaranteed by the Constitution. There's an impasse with the Teachers Service Commission and others to end the critical teacher shortage. The commission moved to the High Court following Amina's directive to lower entry grade to colleges in October last year. TSC is challenging the Kenya National Qualification Framework Act which allows the CS to review the standard of education and training of teachers. CEO Nancy Macharia wants a High Court ruling that the CS has no power to determine entry grades. The commission argues that Amina has questioned the agency's constitutional mandate. It says this has caused anxiety in the teaching profession and the TSC is the sole body mandated with vetting and admitting students into teacher training colleges. The Kenya Union of Post Primary education Teachers (Kuppet) had filed a similar suit at the Employment and Labour Relations Court. However, the union later withdrew the case on grounds the High Court had jurisdiction. Amina has said lowering grades would help students in 17 marginalised areas without enough candidates to be admitted to teacher training colleges (TTCs). The counties are Baringo, Garissa, Isiolo, Kajiado, Kwale, Kilifi, Lamu, Marsabit, Mandera, Narok, Samburu, Taita Taveta, Tana River, Turkana, Wajir, West Pokot and part of Homa Bay. About 3,500 students who sought admission to TTCs have been unable to continue with their classes because of the standoff pitting the ministry against the TSC. A teacher shortage does not guarantee an equitable environment for learning and must be resolved, Amina says. “The disparities are big. In ASAL areas, you are likely to find as many as 1,000 pupils being handled by three teachers,” The CS said a team of stakeholders is seeking a way forward in ASAL areas always fail to get applicants because of high entry requirements. However, even with the reduction of university entry grades to C+, many KCSE exam candidates have limited chances. In 2018 KCSE, the number of candidates with minimum direct university entry qualification of mean grade C+ and above was 90,377. This left at least 569,827 candidates to jostle for middle-level tertiary colleges. Amina said a substantive number of teachers in primary schools got to college with D+ or D grades. "In 2005 the grade was changed to C. If we raise the grade to, say C+, we will not get students applying to join TTCs," she said. The Cabinet Secretary urged critics to consider students' hardships. "I want somebody to convince me that it is not okay to get C+ if you go to a school with no teachers or in a rugged environment with poor infrastructure," she said. Amina added that placement in secondary school through affirmative action has proven that students can still do well despite having performed badly previously. "The good performance is because the students were given opportunities. ASAL areas don't have such hence the lower grades are not a question of intelligence but a result of environmental constraints," she said. "It would be unfair to deny such children an opportunity to continue with their studies. Some of them will definitely do well when they join the colleges since they shall be in a conducive environment for learning. Amina added that in the past, people have chosen to apply to join TTC because they have a passion for teaching, hence students in the ASAL areas should be let to pursue their dream despite scoring D+ in KCSE. The CS urged sector players to work with the ministry so that the teacher shortage is solved once and for all. "The mandate for entry belongs to the ministry, The schools belong to us as well. The registration of teachers is a mandate of the TSC. "What we will agree is on what happens to these students, how long this will continue, and for Knec just in case the entry grades change," Amina said. The ministry has said only one person from Garissa county applied to join TTC last year. "If we stick on the C, we will not get applications," Amina said. In an advisory opinion, Attorney General Kihara Kariuki backed the TSC, saying the commission is the one mandated to determine the entry grades for students joining tertiary institutions. "The buck stops with the commission," Kihara said. Amina is backed by the teachers' union Knut, which argues lowering scores will go a long way to deal with the teacher shortage in marginalised areas. Knut boss Wilson Sossion earlier said students from such areas should not be vilified as it is not easy to perform well in hostile environments. Only local teachers who understand the culture are employed in schools in the difficult regions. "The commission and the ministry should work together and mobilize communities, mobile clans and pastoralists, to adopt this plan," he said 