The Homa Bay government has dismissed claims by a civil society group that its 2018-19 budget was approved without public participation. It said on Friday that it organised public forums and has documents to prove it. The exercise was conducted and relevant views considered, the Cyprian Awiti administration said. Bunge la Wenye Nchi had accused the county of adopting the Sh7.2 billion budget unprocedurally. It petitioned Senator Moses Kajwang and the office of the Controller of Budget to take action against the county. Kajwang immediately sought clarification. In his letter dated January 9, Kajwang demanded the county administration produce documents to prove the budget was prepared in line with the Constitution. He also asked where the meetings took place. Kajwang said it would be wrong to prepare the financial estimates without considering residents’ views. In response, Finance executive Nicholas K’Oriko and chief of staff Eliud Otieno said no law was violated as public meetings took place on April 17-19 last year. They said the lobby was making wild claims. “We annexed and documented all the public engagements we conducted. Bunge La Wenye Nchi is talking contrary to the truth,” K’Oriko said on Friday. “We used media to create awareness for places where such meetings were done.” Otieno accused the civil society group of insincerity. He said its members attended some forums, hence, it was wrong to claim the county violated the law. “The list shows they attended meetings at Kabunde in Homa Bay town and Magunga in Suba South,” he said. K’Oriko said they have responded to Kajwang’s letter appropriately and annexed the evidence. He cautioned against remarks that have no foundation in truth. Kajwang had argued that the civil society group had a right to petition him on any matter of county interest. “I’m also willing to meet the petitioners and the county executive to address underlying issues and solutions that will favour Homa Bay residents,” he wrote. The lobby is also seeking to have the county government dissolved so new leaders are elected. More than 30,000 voters have signed the petition to be presented to the President.  