There are always two sets of politicians in Kenya, the immature and the mature. The former have a penchant for peddling white lies chiefly to win voter sympathy and whip up tribal emotions. This group toys with the minds of their people (the voting robots) to continue clinging to power even when their terms show nothing close to successful representation. They weaponise development, causing instability since they know this resonates with the masses. But their foolishness could just cost them their seats. Kenya’s politics from Independence is powered by the tribe factor. Leaders have used the tribe to ascend to power but for others this approach has boomeranged, denying them a chance to lead. During the pre-handshake period, Jubilee bigwigs worked in tandem, but the historic events of March 9, 2018, threw a spanner into the works. Jubilee’s foundation, cemented by the ‘Tuko Pamoja’ slogan, was shaken, leading to a divided house loosely referred to as Team Kieleweke and Team Tangatanga. The former represents politicians who have thrown their weight behind President Uhuru Kenyatta. The latter, of course, is led by his ambitious deputy, William Ruto, who wants to hear nothing less than the fulfilment of the MoU between him and his boss who has been adrift since shaking hands with Nasa chief Raila Odinga. Retrospectively, it is imperative to fully understand why Raila and Uhuru decided to come together. For the uninitiated on matters that preceded the highly flammable double presidential elections of 2017, the country was on the brink of the precipice. After the two leaders put the country first and politics on the back burner, the immature politicians kept tiptoeing out of the woods with all manner of nails and hammers. Some carried coffins with the solid aim of killing the handshake and burying it without the benefit of a postmortem. Their immaturity did not help their cause because mature Kenyans were elated by the handshake, which they argued saved Kenya from protracted political push and pull. The immature wanted the political wounds to fester as long as their political ambitions remained intact. Anything that threatens 2022 is viewed with malice and the contempt it deserves, even if it restores our fragile unity as a country steeped in historically divisive politics. This trend has continued as some top Jubilee leaders pretend to support the handshake while attempting to pull out its roots at night. They worked out a formula of sending their foot soldiers during the day to embrace the handshake but meeting in the dead of the night to work out effective formulas to dismantle it. Of course, time for immature minds in Kenya’s nascent democracy has run out. It is futile to try to wish Raila or the handshake away. This is an effort in futility. The course of the handshake will continue to flow without interruption as Kenya flourishes and enjoys its sweet fruits. Even former Jubilee Party vice chairman David Murathe tried to frustrate the handshake but failed miserably. He had to embrace it in the long run because it is something whose time had come and there is no way to stop it by proponents of the narrative that the Building Bridges Initiative is a ploy to bolster Raila’s chances to lead Kenya in 2022. What’s wrong with Raila being the tenant of the House on the Hill? Hasn’t he been to hell and back, with his win always being stolen? The genesis of the bad blood in Jubilee should not be blamed on Raila alone. The divorce was bound to happen with or without the doyen of Kenyan politics. You and I know why. The Central region politicians waxing lyrical about lack of development are mocking other regions that have been marginalised before and after independence. They are behaving like a toddler whose parent removed a lollipop from its mouth and gave it to a needy child. Grow up. Washenzi.