I will be back to Nairobi big and better despite Governor Mike Sonko's allegations, former Nairobi Education CEC Janet Ouko has said. Speaking to radio Citizen on Thursday, Ouko said Sonko needs to tell the truth on what transpired in her docket rather than coming up with corruption allegations against her. "Unajua governor huwa anaenda kanisani na anajifanya amepiga magoti akilialia na sarakasi zake. Kama anaogopa mwenyezi Mungu, aambie waKenya ukweli. Awe mnyenyekevu na aseme nimemuacha na sio kwa ubaya wowote," she said. Loosely translates to (You know Sonko goes to church and pretends to kneel before God while crying in his usual gymnastics...If he fears God, then he should tell Kenyans the truth. He should humble himself and say the truth), Ouko said Sonko should stop blackmailing, intimidating and threatening his employees and instead mature up. "We are dealing with a serial blackmailer....he has been telling the media and others that he is a criminal or has criminal records. This is the kind of person we are dealing with here in Nairobi," she said. "Wacha kucheza na maisha ya watu, wengi wetu hatuna fedha nyingi kama yako, tunategemea jina letu. Mimi si kama wewe uliyepata pesa ukiwa mdogo.. heshimu wafanyikazi wako...mweshimiwa Sonko kila mtu si mwizi." (Stop playing with people's lives, some of us have no massive wealth like you do, we rely on our names. I am not like you who got money while you were young. Respect people, not everyone is a thief). Noting that Sonko is a difficult man to deal with, Ouko said he is not someone you can sit down with and talk sense into him. On Wednesday, Ouko lifted the lid on the operations at City Hall while explaining why she left Sonko's government. The CEC who resigned on Monday said she is ready to face Sonko head on and challenge him to explain the crimes he has accused her of committing at the docket. Ouko said she resigned because she could not continue to work in an environment filled with threats, intimidation and blackmail. More on this: Sonko has low self-esteem, mistreats staff - former CEC Ouko Sonko on Wednesday accused Ouko of misusing bursary funds meant for needy Nairobi students. However, Ouko refuted the claims and questioned why Sonko never made any steps to have her arrested before she resigned. Click here for the latest political news 