Doubts about Mathare United’s ability to last the distance and add to their 2008 historic league triumph continue to persist despite contradictions in the Slum Boys’ recent results. With a youthful squad peppered with title winners like Clifford Alwanga and Kevin Kimani, the Slum Boys are unbeaten in their first six games and have amassed 14 points. That total puts them ahead of defending champions, Gor Mahia, with whom they drew on Sunday. Gor have seven points already in a season that is turning out to be as surprising and refreshing. What is most unexpected is the challenge being offered by the returning Western Stima, who too have 14 points after half a dozen matches. The power men, promoted back to the top flight league after a year’s stay in the second tier, ensured they cling to he coattails of the league leaders after a narrow win away at Chemelil Sugar. Rejuvenated former champions Tusker had briefly climbed to the summit of the table with a well-deserved 3-2 win over Sofapaka at the Kenyatta Stadium in Machakos on Saturday. Sofapaka opened the scoring in the 37th minute through a brilliant solo effort by John Avire but Tusker rallied back to equalise through Timothy Otieno a minute after the restart. John Kamau gave the Brewers the lead in the 50th minute and Justine Omary made it 3-1 a few minutes later. Omary, however, scored one in his own net as the match ended 3-2 in favour 0f the Brewers. Despite relinquishing top spot, the 10-time league winners, now with 13 points, will feel they can finally end the rot that has dogged them for the last couple of years when they have barely challenged for top honours. Meanwhile, Sofapaka youngster Telvin Omutere has termed donning the Batoto Ba Mungu jersey a dream come true after being handed his starting debut last Wednesday in the 1-1 away draw against Western Stima in Kisumu. Omutere came on as a late second half substitute against Ulinzi Stars over the weekend and impressed in the few minutes he played. Head coach Melis Medo then made the decision to hand the 18-year-old a starting role against Western Stima and played for 65 minutes before paving way for Dennis Odhiambo. “I was super excited when I came on against Ulinzi because this has always been my dream to play in the KPL. I was given a few minutes under my belt but I still managed to play well. When the coach told me I was to start against Stima, I was super excited and I did my best. I think I impressed with how I played,” Omutere said. The left-footed midfielder was promoted to the seniors from the youth team at the beginning of the season and has continually impressed in training, convincing coach Medo to hand him a chance.