In Milore village, Ganze, Kilifi county, residents had to either climb trees or hills to communicate. They lacked access to key services such as M-Pesa, bank agents, internet and cyber cafes. Communication Authority of Kenya officials toured the area after putting up new installations to connect more than 400,000 residents in 78 sub-locations to mobile voice services facilitated by the Universal Service Fund. Statistics from CA in a research done in 2016 indicated there were more than 3.5 million Kenyans who had no access to mobile voice services, prompting authorities to initiate a program to connect some 348 locations that had no power. Currently, 78 sub-locations which had no mobile voice services are connected, at a cost of more than Sh2.4 billion. A tour of Milore village revealed that residents walked for over 20 kilometres to get an M-pesa agent and carry out transactions. Ali Charo, an M-pesa agent at Milore, said he would personally have to go to suppliers with cash to buy goods, a risky undertaking. “To make a phone call, you had to climb a tree and search for long to access network,’’ he said. Communication was done using letters addressed to the chief. Now the residents have reason to smile. “Currently we are able to do mobile transactions and even place orders for the shop without having to travel,’’ he said. Fredrick Ngumbao, head teacher of Milore Primary School said online registration of students was difficult as school authorities had to travel to locations where there is internet in order effect the process. Browsing the web or getting internet services was a problem and this affected students and even the locals in use of ICT services. He thanked Government for connecting them to mobile voice services saying it had enabled them to be in touch with the modern world since browsing or researching in the internet is easier. Out of the total amount, Sh1.24 billion was spent for mobile voice services while Sh830 million was spent in education broadband connectivity to schools. The team included Paul Kiaga , acting assistant director of USF, members of Universal Service Advisory Council Kennedy Kong’o , Rodham Masaviru, Pakia Godo, and experts from mobile telecommunications firm Safaricom. “In 2016, we did a study to determine where there are no internet services. We found out that countrywide there are 348 sub locations which are not covered by mobile voice services. In 2017-2018,some 202 sub-locations were tendered , 78 were picked by safaricom and Telkom,’’ Kiaga said. Out of the selected, Safaricom picked 50 while Telkom picked 28 which were now complete. Alfred Mugambi senior manager regulatory at Safaricom said they are keen to connect disadvantaged and rural areas.