Let’s face it. The New Year comes with a surge of hope. Although, it’s simply a time continuum, however, people feel it’s a chance to start afresh, make new decisions and reset their lives. Now 2019 is here. And you have another opportunity to reset your life. So, how do you organize your life for better results? What mindset do you need to do better this year? What principles do you need to apply to reach your goals? Here are three simple principles to help you. Plan: This sounds cliché. Everyone should plan – right? But sadly, many don’t. In 2019, what do you want? What do you want to be, do or have? What is your desire? Desire is the basis for planning. You must be clear in your mind about what you want; take the time to establish a big picture. When this picture is clear, a roadmap begins to emerge before you. It’s time to determine the outcomes you wish to see by the end of 2019. You must be invested in creating your ideal year. The saying is right: “if you fail to plan, you plan to fail.” Set Goals: Now that you’ve established a big picture, how do you get there? What are the necessary steps to ensure that your plans succeed? Every plan has a set of steps that must be done for the plan to succeed. That’s why, after you have established a big picture, it’s wise to step back and focus on the steps to make it happen. Steps are the engine of plans. If the steps fail, the plan will fail. So, as you plan, take the time to understand the steps. What will each step cost you? Who do you need to connect with to ensure the success of a step? What kind of resources do you need to make it work? Steps are building blocks that must be laid right. Discipline: The lack of discipline is one reason plans fail. The best laid plans have gone south because the people involved lacked the grit, commitment and staying power to make it happen. Discipline is lacking when people are not careful to properly do each step of the plan. A flaky attitude will ensure that plans fail. Your plan requires a level of commitment that must be in place for it to succeed. So, make up your mind to give it your very best and stay in the fight until you win. Happy New Year. Email: smpamugo@gmail.com