After bowing 4-3 to an unheralded Mbao FC of Tanzania to crush out of the SportPesa Cup, Gor Mahia’s coach Hassan Oktay termed the loss as a relief to their quest to defend the SportPesa Premier League as well launch preparations for their Caf Confederations Cup group stages matches. Gor are set to open the group stages matches of the continental tournament on February 3 against Egyptian giants Zamalek and the early exit is set to help them concentrate their efforts in defending the league and embark on preparations to book a place in the quarter finals of the Confederations Cup. The reigning league champions have had a false start in the ongoing domestic league season and trail leaders Mathare United by seven points despite having a match in hand and are lined up to play two matches before hosting Zamalek. Oktay, who summoned his second string squad in yesterday’s match, said the loss would help them focus on the league and the continental matches besides relieving his players who had played back to back matches from fatigue. “We have to move on. I have to told my players that it is important to move on since the match is gone and the damage has been done. We have two important league matches back at home before we go back to the Confederations Cup. Some players played back to back matches and I think today’s loss has nothing to do with rotation. It is important to take care of our players,” he said. Dennis Oliech used his experience to slot home the opening goal from the spot in the 51st minute after Amos Charles blocked Ssekisambu’s shot by the aid of his arm. The former Harambee Stars captain send Mnata the wrong way to take his goal tally to three for the club since his return from retirement before paving way for Francis Mustafa minutes later. What seemed an harmless corner kick in the 78th minute ended past Fredrick Odhiambo as Abubakari Ngalema deflected the ball into the net a goal which breathed life to their dying semi finals hopes. What followed was clinical defending by Mbao who held till the final whistle to push the match to post match penalties. Francis Kahata,Jacques Tuyisenge and Boniface Omondi successfully converted their spotkicks while Shakava and Batambuze were denied by Mnata and the bar respectively. Mbao scored through Ngalema, Haminu Abdikarim, Said Khamis and David Mwasa. Ibrahim Hashim had his penalty saved by Odhiambo.