The Judiciary has been defended against claims that it is the weakest link in the war on graft. Senator Moses Wetang’ula said on Saturday that though his Ford Kenya party fully supports the fight against corruption, it will not support unnecessary attacks on the courts. The Bungoma senator cautioned the Jubilee administration against admonishing judges and magistrates, as doing so would be counterproductive in the long run. Wetang’ula said Kenyans expect a real crackdown, not public relations stunts or selective fight meant to malign specific people. It must be intensified if it has to bear fruit, he said. “I was perturbed when some individuals and top state officials led by President Uhuru Kenyatta at the Bomas of Kenya talked about the war on graft. Their sentiments looked hypocritical. People were speaking about things they don’t believe in,” the Ford People leader said. Uhuru and others said the Judiciary was too lenient on graft suspects. Wetang’ula spoke in Ndengelwa, Kanduyi. Present were Bungoma Governor Wycliffe Wangamati, Kanduyi MP Wafula Wamunyinyi and Kimilili MP Didmus Barasa. They attended the burial of a boda boda rider who had been killed by robbers. The Bungoma senator said judges and magistrates decide cases based on the evidence presented by the prosecution and cannot deviate from that just to create the impression that the war on corruption is succeeding. “Judges can hate any person as much as they want, but suspects can only be jailed based on concrete evidence produced against them in a court of law,” he said. Wetang’ula said the Directorate of Criminal Investigations and the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission must thoroughly investigate all scandals so the DPP has watertight evidence that can sustain convictions. Otherwise Kenya will not make meaningful gains, he said. “We want to see those who’ve stolen maize money, over Sh18 billion, in a span of two months put behind bars,” he said. He expressed concern that many state companies are collapsing because of runaway corruption. Nzoia Sugar Company is collapsing because those who looted the factory are well known but have yet to be brought to book, he said.