Feuding boxing factions have agreed to bury the hatchet and work as a team by harmonising their separate calendars into one. The impasse had threatened the on and off Boxing Association of Kenya (BAK) elections, prompting the two factions to resolve their differences for fear of sanctions from AIBA. The factions said in a joint statement that it’s important not to interfere with the running of sport even as stakeholders intensify campaigns. The boxing elections which were scheduled for today are technically off pending scrutiny of counties by Registrar of Sports, according to BAK Interim Secretary, Isaac Mbote. BAK chairmanship aspirants, Anthony Otieno aka Jamal and his namesake Ken Otieno aka Kentrack met on Wednesday and held a joint press conference in Nairobi yesterday to unveil one calendar of events for 2019. Mbote, who is defending his seat, said: “The existence of the two calendars had caused unnecessary confusion and panic amongst members of the boxing fraternity.” “The unified calendar has already been released and boxers and coaches are urged to continue preparing for the upcoming season since the national selections for Team Kenya to the African Championship, the first engagement the season.” “We sat as a team and decided to work together,” said Jamal. “The sport is bigger than all of us but election campaigns will continue in earnest,” added Kentrack. Also in attendance was the secretary in Kameta’s camp Lt Col P B Mung’ori has not declared the seat he will be vying for but noted that the essence prior to elections is to come together as a team in the best interest of the sport. The 2019 schedule starts with the national Novices featuring all counties at Nairobi’s Charter Hall on February 6-7. The National Intermediates will take place in Thika on March 6-9 with the National Open set for April 17-20. The League will punch off on May 9-11 in Nakuru. Kenya will also participate at the All Africa Games in Morocco in August and the AIBA World Championships (Men) in Russia in September.