White House press secretary Sarah Sanders has told a religious television network that God "wanted Donald Trump to become president". Ms Sanders made the claim in an interview with the Christian Broadcasting Network (CBN), saying it was the reason Trump was in office. The press secretary also said it was "very hard" to take morality lessons from the Democratic Party. Democrats have attacked Trump's proposed border wall as immoral. US evangelicals strongly support the president. The Washington Post reports Mr Trump won 80% of the evangelical vote in 2016, a higher share than Republican presidential candidates Mitt Romney and John McCain in previous elections. CBN broadcast the interview with Ms Sanders on Wednesday, conducted by David Brody and Jennifer Wishon. Responding to Brady's question about Trump's position, Ms Sanders said: "I think God calls all of us to fill different roles at different times and I think that He wanted Donald Trump to become president." "That's why he's there and I think he has done a tremendous job in supporting a lot of the things that people of faith really care about." Sarah Sanders has told a religious television network that God "wanted Donald Trump to become president". Ms Sanders made the claim in an interview with the Christian Broadcasting Network (CBN), saying it was the reason Mr Trump was in office. The press secretary also said it was "very hard" to take morality lessons from the Democratic Party. Democrats have attacked Trump's proposed border wall as immoral. US evangelicals strongly support the president. The Washington Post reports Trump won 80% of the evangelical vote in 2016, a higher share than Republican presidential candidates Mitt Romney and John McCain in previous elections. CBN broadcast the interview with Ms Sanders on Wednesday, conducted by David Brody and Jennifer Wishon. Responding to Brady's question about Trump's position, Ms Sanders said: "I think God calls all of us to fill different roles at different times and I think that He wanted Donald Trump to become president." "That's why he's there and I think he has done a tremendous job in supporting a lot of the things that people of faith really care about." Click here for the latest political news