The longstanding and frosty relations between citizens and the police played out in Kibera,Nairobi yesterday during a public forum on policing with some of the youth saying they will never trust the police. This is despite all efforts that has been put in place to reform the police force to a service. During the forum that had been convened by human rights defenders and aimed at addressing extrajudicial killing, young people narrated the ordeal they have gone through in the hands of the police. On December 22, police officers on patrol in Kibera shot dead Kibera resident and Leeds University engineering student Carilton John Maina. The controversial case has attracted international and national media coverage and public outrage. The National Police Service Inspector General has already declared that they will cooperate with the Independent Policing Oversight Authority to establish circumstances and any possible culpability on the behalf of the Police Officers. However, young people could not take explanations from senior police officers yesterday saying the culpable officer must face the full force of the law. "Where there is injustice, there is suffering. The police will always have a reason when young person has been gunned down,"Moses Omondi said. Omondi said the only thing they had on Maina was hope. He said some of the young people who have ambitions of leaving crime fear changing owing to the brutal nature of the police. Seven organizations including Shining Hope for Communities (SHOFCO), Soweto Silanga Welfare Group, Amani Kibera, Crime Si Poa, The International Commission of Jurists – Kenya section, Independent Medico Legal Unit (IMLU), Amnesty International Kenya organized the public forum. It was held at the SHOFCO Community Hall in Kibera. Among the senior officers present were Ali Zimbu from Kenya Police head quarters and Kilimani OCPD Michael Muchiri. Amnesty International Kenya Executive director Irungu Houghton, Kibera Assistant County Commissioner Jesse Ithai and Sarangombe Senior Chief Abdiwahab Ahmed among other officials were also present during the highly charged forum. Maina's mother,Josphine Wangare, stepped into the forum some minutes past noon and sat quietly among other women. Lost in thoughts and dressed in black trouser, white shirt and a black hijab, Wangare would later be whisked to the high table. Through a friend, Wangare said she did not wish to speak with the media as she was overwhelmed by the loss of her hope. During the forum, ladies too narrated the ordeal they have undergone in the hands of security personell including sexual harassment. Student Organization of Nairobi University chairman Anthony Manyara said Maina's case was not the first extrajudicial killing to be reported. "We had six cases police brutality and lawlessness last year. The police should be educated to know the value of life,"he said adding that when injustice become law, resistance is unavoidable. Manyara urged IPOA to hasten the case for justice to be served saying students expect results by next week. Cases of gender based violence, rape cases among others also came up during the forum. Kibera resident Kennedy Juma said police brutality in the area was as a result of the police overstaying in one area. He said he smelled a rat over house allowance, a move that will see police stay with residents. Irungu said brutality in form of any nature will not be allowed this year. "The way to win is to isolate action and prosecute officers and civilians personally and individually,"he said adding that police were also being killed. Irungu said on average, between 150 to 200 cases of extrajudicial killings are reported every year. He told the residents that the more police officers are abused, the more they will loose interest in protecting lives and property. Irungu said amnesty will follow up the case to ensure justice is served. He urged the residents to be patient. The OCPD on his part said all cases reported in the area will be followed up saying "they cannot be blind to what is happening." "There is no card under the table, we want to engage the community with honesty as any death is final and painful,"Muchiri told the agitated residents. Muchiri said the IPOA has since taken up the case saying justice will not only be done but will be seen to be done. Saying that he is personally passionate about justice, Muchiri said he is ready to support IPOA during the probe. Zimbu on his part said the names of officers who have overstayed will be looked into. Click here for the latest political news   