The government will create a national database with personal details of all Kenyans and registered foreigners. President Uhuru Kenyatta has named an inter-ministerial committee chaired by Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i to spearhead the process. The committee, whose terms and reference were outlined in a January 4 gazette notice, also hass Cabinet Secretaries for ICT (Joe Mucheru), Health (Sicily Kariuki), Treasury (Henry Rotich), Education (Amina Mohamed), Agriculture (Mwangi Kiunjuri), Transport (James Macharia), and Attorney General Kihara Kariuki as members. The team is expected to come up with a register which will be used as the key reference point for government decisions. It comes against the backdrop of concerns by Kenyans that some of the data used by government while making key decisions is outdated, hence unreliable. Central to this is the share of revenue to county governments where population is a factor. It is also a factor during general elections. At least 30,000 clerks will be engaged in the biometric listing, information which will be fed to the National Integrated Identity Management System. The system is expected to generate unique identification numbers - Huduma Namba, to persons in the national population database. It is the unique number that Kenyans will use when seeking government services, hence, easily tracked. The Matiang’i-led team has been tasked to ensure the preservation, protection and security of the information or data collected, obtained, maintained and stored in the national population database. Read: New registration system to collect data on all Kenyans Principal Secretaries will run the secretariat through a Principal Secretaries Co-ordination Committee of the Inter-ministerial Committee. Their operations will be based at the Interior Ministry offices. The PSs’ team will be chaired by Interior Principal Secretary – currently Karanja Kibicho, and has ICT, Broadcasting, Health, National Treasury, Planning, Basic Education, Agricultural Research, Immigration, and Transport PSs as members. “In the performance of its functions, the Inter-ministerial Committee shall report to the President; and regulate its own procedure,” Uhuru said in the December 5, 2018 appointments. “The committee shall remain in force for a period of two years from the 24th November, 2018, or for such longer period as the President may by notice in the gazette, extend,” the notice reads. The government seems to be cleaning up its data to weed out ghost entries. Also See: Banks reap big from digital population register Click here for the latest political news