Members of the Jubilee Party advisory council have weighed into the simmering squabbles in the ruling outfit telling off those demanding for elections to wait for 2020. The leaders mainly chairmen of the defunct Jubilee Alliance parties which merged to form the JP said the law is clear on when party elections should be held. Hassan Osman, Benjamin Muema, Albert Nyaundi and Said Ali faulted a section of the Jubilee leaders of undermining President Uhuru Kenyatta’s legacy with constant selfish politics. Last week, Kirinyaga governor Anne Waiguru kicked off demands for party polls days after JP vice-chairman David Murathe remarked that the party does not have any binding agreement to support Deputy President Ruto in the next polls. As if reading from the same script, Jubilee Secretary General Raphael Tuju fired another salvo stating that Deputy President Uhuru Kenyatta is not an automatic presidential candidate in 2022. The statements by the two top Jubilee leaders irked some leaders aligned to Ruto who came out guns blazing demanding for an election to oust officials they claimed are playing politics with their positions . “Jubilee Party needs a leadership that has a legitimate mandate and the people’s support,” Waiguru said in a statement. Waiguru call is slowly getting support from some Jubilee leaders who are unhappy with a section of party officials. MPs Rigathi Gachagua (Mathira), Rahim Dahood (North Imenti) and former Kiambu governor William Kabogo are some of the leaders who have separately joined the chorus demanding for JP elections. But yesterday, the members of the advisory council members told those unhappy to hold their horses and read the party’s constitution. “When we were forming this party, we agreed between ourselves to ran the party until 2020 by a committee led by Tuju after which we would hold elections,” Nyaundi said at a press conference yesterday. “Any other person speaking on the contrary is expressing their personal opinion.” The council is made up of chairmen of the more than 11 political parties. Read: Waiguru wants fresh Jubilee party polls to elect leaders with 'legitimate mandate' Click here for the latest political news