ICT Cabinet Secretary Joe Mucheru yesterday rooted for strict laws to deal with dishonest bloggers. He said bloggers misuse their space for personalised and false attacks on innocent citizens and senior public officials and institutions. “We drafted the law and it was taken through Parliament. It was contested and we took it to court,” Mucheru said, referring to the computer Misuse and Cybercrimes Act, 2018. The Judiciary issued a temporary injunction blocking the implementation of the law.  Mucheru said they are waiting to hear from the courts. He spoke during the 70th anniversary of Lenana School, Nairobi. Read: Court halts enforcement of Cybercrimes law The ceremony was attended by a number of old boys, including Mucheru ( 1983 to 1988 ). He said those who use their digital space to malign others must face the law. “People can still be taken to court. We have taken some to court. We are expecting a much stronger law which is currently with the Judiciary,” Mucheru said. On Friday during the Anti-Corruption Conference at Bomas, Chief Justice David Maraga complained that bloggers were posting photo-shopped pictures of him massaging corruption suspects. In response, President Uhuru Kenyatta said the same courts blocked the law that was aimed at dealing with bloggers. He cautioned bloggers to highlight issues affecting Kenyans, not insults. “If you have something to say, say it in a proper manner,” he said. Read: Get used to bloggers and move on, Uhuru tells Maraga Last May, the Bloggers Association of Kenya challenged the Computer Misuse and Cybercrimes Act, 2018, in court. They said the law curtailed their freedom of expression and aimed at muzzling its members. The law was to take effect on May 30 last year, but High Court judge Chacha Mwita issued an order suspending 25 sections. This was seen as a win by the association. Mucheru also expressed disappointment with how several media houses covered the IED explosion on Tom Mboya Street, Nairobi, on Saturday. “Something very fairly and small, but some media houses continuously covered it like it was the biggest problem in the country,” he said. However, he said citizens are free to give their views on things that take place in the country. The attack left two people injured. Related: Tanzania sets two-week deadline for bloggers amid internet crackdown Click here for the latest political news