Former First Lady Hillary Clinton is bidding goodbye to a gloomy 2018. The 71-year-old Democrat who ran against Trump in the 2016 presidential election, called the year as a 'dark time for our country' and took some jabs at the current administration. She reflected upon the year with a picture of herself with her husband and daughter Chelsea sharing a warm embrace on November 5, 1996, as they enjoyed the fireworks display that celebrated Bill Clinton's second presidency win. 'As it ends, I'm grateful to everyone who brought light into it: activists who protected kids at the border, journalists who stood up for truth, organizers who mobilized voters for the 2018 elections, candidates who ran races with grit and inspiration, voters who made their voices heard, and absolutely everyone who marched, donated, called, and protested to fight for the values we share,' she wrote in her heartfelt Instagram post on Monday. 'Here's to more light in 2019, and to a shared commitment to make it as bright as possible. Happy New Year,' she added to her 4.1million followers. On Twitter she wrote: 'I'm grateful to everyone who brought light into 2018: organizers, journalists, candidates, marchers, activists, and voters. Here's to you. Happy New Year.' In her message, she praised journalists for standing up for the truth despite being relentlessly slammed by the president for purporting 'fake news'. In October, Trump refused to punish Saudi Arabia for the murder of Saudi citizen and Washington Post journalist Jamal Khashoggi who was a harsh critic of his mother country. She also criticised Trump's handling of the Central American migrant crisis at the U.S.-Mexico border and praised activists rallying for migrant children's rights. She praised activists and protesters who led the social movements of #MeToo and gun reform that have gained traction this year. Clinton also praised the candidates and voters who helped Democrats take over the House in the midterm elections. Following the midterms, she tweeted 'What a start this is...for the first time ever, over 100 women were elected to Congress—including a record number of women of colour.' 2018's been a difficult year for Clinton as she saw her former Republican opponent dominate headlines. She clashed with Donald Trump multiple times on social media as the President continued to slam her as 'crooked'  for using her private email server while serving as secretary of state. At George H.W. Bush's funeral, she refused to acknowledge Trump and First Lady Melania as they sat just a few seats away. Despite pleas for her to run for President again in the future, her longtime aide Philippe Reines told Politico in October the chances are 'somewhere between highly unlikely and zero'. Click here for the latest political news 