Wajir East MP Rashid Amin must apologise for terming Central Kenya as region heavily infested with jiggers, Ahadi Kenya Trust executive director Stanley Kamau has  said. Kamau termed the legislator’s utterances as divisive and stigmatising to victims of jigger infestation. Kamau, who has been leading spirited campaign on eradication of the flea countrywide, said Amin does not  understand that the  jigger menace is not only confined in Mount Kenya region, but is also a problem in other parts of the country. The Wajir MP made the utterances on Friday, when he joined other leaders from Northeastern region in rejecting the proposed formula on revenue allocation, based on population. Amin had dismissed Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria for claiming revenue allocation should be based on population and not geographical area. The MP said “central region which is jigger infested area is not that special”, thus they will not be cowed by people who are against development in north eastern region. Amin’s words angered Kamau, who in a press conference on Saturday, said jigger infection is like any other disease and can affect any person, including those in Wajir East constituency. “The jigger infested people may negatively be affected by such careless utterances. Let leaders demand for their rights without bringing in other issues which may affect the poor in the society,” added Kamau. The MP’s sentiments, he said, were against the spirit on national unity. “Nobody chooses to be born in an area plagued by diseases and jiggers and it is the height of irresponsibility to associate one area with a particular challenge,” he said. The anti-jigger campaigner said his organisation has been working hard in partnership with the national and county governments, among other stakeholders, to eradicate joggers across the country. He added that jigger victims need to be reminded that the infestation is not disability but a treatable condition. “To be able to remove the stigma from the poor, we need to stop classifying regions with their challenges,” he said. “There are many counties whose residents suffer from Fistula, HIV/Aids, extreme hunger and poverty yet leaders do not stigmatise them on such issues.”