The task force formed by the ministry of Agriculture to look into the issues bedeviling the sugar sector will start public participation forums today amid objection by farmers. In an advert in the local dailies, the sugar task force technical committee will meet stakeholders in the industry in the various sugar companies from today to Friday. The meetings will be held in Homa Bay, Kisumu, Busia, Migori, Kericho, Kakamega, Bungoma, Narok and Kisii counties to get their views, proposals and recommendations that will support the development of a competitive sugar industry. The advert signed by Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri states that the task force will focus on the sugar industry funding mechanism. They will also focus on cane and sugar pricing in the sub-sector. Kiunjuri invited the stakeholders and members of the public to submit any memoranda they might have on the areas of focus. But farmers on Monday held demonstrations protesting this, saying they are not represented. They said the task force is not properly constituted and can therefore not provide solutions to revive the sector. “The current government task force lacks farmers representation whose demand is for sustainable contract farming arrangement as a partnership for the growth of the industry in Kenya,” former Kenya Sugar Board chair Saul Busolo said. The cane growers resolved to form the Kenya National Alliance of Sugarcane Farmer Organization (KNASFO) to address their challenges through an independent assessment of the sugar industry by themselves. This will comprise of Kenya National Sugar Growers Association (KESGA), Kenya National Federation of Sugarcane Farmers (Federation) KASAP as well as other independent private sugarcane farmers. “Ours is a focused investigation into certain key factors that will bring out the interdependent relationship between growers and millers in the context where the industry develops commercially without any unnecessary government intervention,” Busolo said. They will undertake the assessment in 30 days and report to the President through the CS.