Residents of Mavoko in Machakos County are experiencing serious water shortage. The situation is such dire that water vendors have nothing to trade in since Export Processing Zone Authority (EPZA), their main source is no longer selling them the commodity. Locals are now forced to depend on private bore holes whose owners’ trade in water, they sell a 20-litre-jerican of salty water at Sh50. Machakos county government through its water regulatory authority in the sub county, Mavoko Water and Sewerage Company (MAVWASCO), has attributed the situation to ballooning numbers of residents in the region. MAVWASCO Board of directors chairman Philip Kilonzo said the companies water sources can no longer meet the locals demand. Kilonzo said the sub-county relies only on three water sources, EPZA and two small dams (KMC and Portland) with EPZA being its bulk supplier. He said EPZA water is supplied from Nairobi through Nairobi Water and Sewerage Company that has currently cut supply. “Currently, Nairobi has its own water issues, they cannot supply Mavoko when their own residents do not have water. They equally have water scarcity themselves, water vendors are in problem,” said Kilonzo. Kilonzo spoke to the Star in Athi River on Tuesday. “EPZA itself does not have enough water, the little water we get from the small dams cannot do much,” added he. He said Mlolongo and Syokimau residents are the mostly affected by the situation since they do not have an alternative source of water, they solemnly depend on the EPZA line from Ndakaini Dam that passes through Nairobi. The line is connected to EPZA at the Nairobi’s General Motors area. However, Kilonzo said they are doing much they can to find a long lasting solution to the problem in the sub county. He said MAVWASCO must have its own water source since demand for the commodity is growing everywhere. Kilonzo said there is already an ongoing Sh2.5 billion national government’s water project in Mavoko to resolve the situation. “We were granted Sh2.5 billion loan for the project, the national government is doing new water treatment works. We are improving on our storage facilities,” said Kilonzo. He said MAVWASCO will expand both Portland and KMC dams. “We still have water scarcity but we will ease the situation to credible degree,” he said. Kilonzo said Mavoko should have adequate water supply within two-three years from now.     