President Uhuru Kenyatta has initiated many projects in Mt Kenya region contrary to what Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria and other lawmakers want the public to believe. Deputy President William Ruto has been the face of the new infrastructure projects. On December 31, Kuria sparked a furore after claiming that Uhuru had no time for Kiambu, his home county, but was commissioning jobs elsewhere. He claimed the President only hands out certificates to rehabilitated alcoholics in his home-turf. Kuria said while he agreed with the President’s position that development is meant for every part of the country, Central is not receiving development projects as it should. “H E the President is 100 per cent right...we need development in every corner of this country. It is in that spirit and in line with the President’s position that I believe Mt Kenya also deserves development just like any other region,” he said. His remarks were supported by Bahati MP Ngunjiri Kimani who on Sunday said “life of a Kikuyu has become difficult under the Jubilee regime”. See: [VIDEO] I didn't insult Uhuru, Kuria says, tells off Waititu and Wamuchomba over poor development But Kiambu governor Ferdinand Waititu on Monday lashed out at Mt Kenya MPs who say Uhuru has neglected the region. Waititu said the leaders are only barking yet they can follow up on the President privately and address their issues without advertising to the world. “If we dare advertise what the President and the national government are doing for our region other counties will hold demonstrations. There is a lot of work going on within the region and the leaders speaking out should stop barking,” he said. Former Mandera senator Billow Kerrow told off MPs from Mt Kenya, saying they have the responsibility in Parliament to ensure equitable distribution of resources. “The current claims by certain leaders in Central Kenya that their region has been neglected by Uhuru is political rhetoric that deserves the contempt with which the President has dismissed them. Under the Constitution, Parliament determines allocation of resources through approval of government budgets and development blueprints,” he said. Read: Ruto breaks silence on projects, asks discontent Jubilee leaders to tone down attacks According to the presidential delivery unit, the projects initiated in Mt Kenya region in the last six years amount to billions. In December 2016, Uhuru and Ruto toured Nyeri, Laikipia, Murang’a and Kirinyaga and rolled out Sh20 billion projects. In Murang’a, he commissioned Sh400 million medical equipment and opened an MRI centre at the Murang’a County Referral Hospital. He also commissioned the 33km Sh4.1 billion Kangema-Gacharage road in Kiharu. He further launched the tarmacking of Mukuyu-Kambiria-Mirira–Gwathamaki, Gakira–Ngonda–Mununga and Gakonya–Mahuaini roads. In Kirinyaga, he commissioned medical equipment at the Kerugoya County Referral Hospital under the Managed Equipment Services programme for Sh400 million. He also launched the tarmacking of the Kutus–Kianyaga–Kiamutugu–Githure–Kibugu road. The road cost Sh1.3 billion. In November 2017, construction of the Sh19 billion Thiba Dam in Kirinyaga county was launched. Upon completion next year, it will help rice farmers in Mwea double production to 160 tonnes a year. Uhuru’s Delivery Unit website shows that in Nyeri county he built Mukurwe-ini water project at a cost of Sh598 million. He has completed and commissioned the Sh400 million Othaya Sewerage Project and Othaya Water and Sewerage Project for Sh850 million. Other projects in the county initiated and completed include Guara Water Pan at Sh13 million, Gura Ugachiku Irrigation project (Sh80 million), Ndiriti Aguthi Irrigation project (Sh50.1 million), Kiirungi Irrigation project (Sh28 million) and Thia Kiruka Irrigation project (Sh75.4 million). In Kiambu, Uhuru has completed 0.6km Broadways-General Kago road at Sh19.1 million, Ngorongo-Githunguri and access to Nazareth Hospital, a 24km stretch at Sh1.3 billion. The roads under construction in the county include Ruaka-Banana-Limuru-Thogoto-Gikambura-Mutarakwa, now 18.24 per cent complete. They will cost the government Sh2.9 billion and Muigai Inn-Ichaweri-Gatundu/Kibichoi-Ichaweri-Mataara In April 2016, Uhuru launched construction of Ruaka-Banana-Limuru Road, commissioned the Theta Dam and last year in June, Ruto launched the rehabilitation of a 47km Ruiru-Githunguri-Uplands road in Kiambu. The road linking Thika Road to the Northern Corridor will be rehabilitated at Sh4 billion. It will be fully funded by the government. The DP on August 30 last year launched the Wangige-Nyathuna-Rironi/Kirangari Roads and the Kimende- Kagwe- Ruiru River Road in Kiambu. In November last year, he launched construction of the Mwiyogo-Endarasha Road in Nyeri. More: Uhuru tells ‘washenzi’ to leave him alone Click here for the latest political news