The High Court in Eldoret has blocked exhumation of the body of a teacher whose family suspects she was murdered in December. Justice Hellen Omondi directed that the body of Veronica Kemunto should not be exhumed until a case filed by her husband Elijah Oginda is heard on January 14. Principal Magistrate Naomi Wairimu had ordered the body be exhumed after hearing an application filed by Martha Kemunto Osinde, the mother. Osinde went to court on December 23 urgently seeking an order to exhume her daughter’s body. She wanted a fresh autopsy to be done by an independent pathologist to ascertain the death of her daughter. She was buried by her husband on December 21. Osinde claimed that cause of the death was questionable. After the lower court order to exhume the body, the husband got a temporary stay from the High Court. Kemunto was a teacher at Kandie Primary School in Eldoret town. Her mother has rejected a post-mortem report by a Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital pathologist that said her daughter died from acute cardiac arrest. “I highly doubt the results of that post-mortem and demand that a fresh one be done after the body is exhumed,” she said. Osinde in her suit papers said Kemunto was found dead at her home under “mysterious circumstances”. She accuses her son-in-law, Oginda, of failing to report the death to police for investigations. “My family members were assaulted and prevented from attending the burial of my daughter,” the mother added. Oginda has opposed the exhumation by filing a response through lawyer Dennis Magare. “It’s unwarranted and unnecessary for her to demand that the body be exhumed almost a month after burial,” the widower said. He said the postmortem from MTRH was sufficient to confirm the cause of the death. He added, “The allegations brought in court to support exhumation are untrue and meant to paint me as a murderer.” He dismissed claims that his wife died at home. Kemunto died in hospital, he says. “I’m satisfied with the postmortem results, which indicate that my wife died from sudden cardiac arrest.” He also rejected claims that his in-laws were assaulted and blocked from attending the burial. Senior principal magistrate Harrison Barasa is expected to make a ruling on Monday.