The new education curriculum should not be rolled out until all stakeholders are on board, a legislator has recommended. The Constitution requires public participation on all issues that have direct effect on the people, according to Shinyalu MP Justus Kizito. “We as elected leaders were ignored in the process of developing the new system,” Kizito told the Star by telephone yesterday. His views came three days after President Uhuru Kenyatta apologised to Kenyans over the confusion created by the government on the implementation of the new curriculum. He promised that the mess would be sorted out internally. There has been confusion over the implementation of the 2-6-3-3-3 curriculum, a competence-based education system meant to replace the current 8-4-4. Early last week, Education CS Amina Mohamed announced the suspension of implementation of the new system until 2020 but beat a hasty retreat and declared the implementation will start this week. Kizito accused the government of rushing through the new system without taking into account its effects on learners and the society in general. He said that it was not necessary to change the structures, noting that the changes could still be carried out within the 8-4-4 system. “You cannot talk of changing an education system without first developing the infrastructure and training teachers to roll it out. Where has it ever worked? They keep quoting countries like Sweden and Switzerland whose economies are not similar to ours,”Kizito said. “Senior government officials pushing these changes have their children learning abroad or in private schools teaching the British system. Why should they force through what they don’t consume?” he asked. He dismissed as ill-advised plans by the government to phase out P1 teachers. The government plans to phase out the P1 teachers and make diploma certificate the entry grade for teachers across the country. Earlier last month, Amina had admitted before the Senate Education committee chaired by Uasin Gishu Senator Margaret Kamar that the new system faced many challenges. The system has been piloted in a few select schools. The challenges include lack of necessary infrastructure, adequate properly trained teachers and the requisite teaching materials. The 2-6-3-3-3 system also suffered lack of multi-agency cooperation and poor public awareness during the pilot period. During the pilot phase assessment, the Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development officials were supposed to work with ministry officials, the Kenya National Examinations Council officials and the TSC, the teachers employer. Under the new system, learners are to be taught for two years in pre-school, six years of primary school, six years of high school, and three years of tertiary education. Classes will be referred to as grades instead of standards.