A section of residents in Dandora slum have expressed confidence that crime will be a thing of the past in the area in the next few years. The area has over the years been known as hub of crime. However, according to the residents, the area has now become peaceful and youth are now engaging in income generating projects without engaging in crime. An organisation, Dandora Transformation League (DTL), has been established in the area and has recruited many youths previously involved in crime. DTL chief executive officer Charles Gachanga said since the introduction of the estate transformation initiative by Governor Mike Sonko, many youths have now become productive. "Previously we had a challenge of insecurity in this region because of youth unemployment and being idle. However, through Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko, we have been able to mobilise the youth to form garbage collection groups, green the area and engage in other incoming generating activities,” he said. Wilson Mutua, a father of two from Dandora Phase Five, said many youths have stopped criminal activity and started businesses. Mutua said many youths will be employed at the multibillion-shilling Dandora recycling plant once construction is completed. “We are appealing to Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko to speed up the process of constructing this facility,” he said. Omondi Onyango, a former member of a gang that had been terrorising Dandora residents, said the organisation has helped transform him. Read: How police felled Dandora five Onyango urged the governor to give Dandora youths priority when hiring at the recycling plant starts. “Mimi nimechoka na ukora. Governor Sonko akianza kuajiri watu wa usafi mitaani, tafadhali andika jina langu,” he said. This is loosely translated to, “I’m tired of crime. Governor Sonko should give me priority when he starts hiring youth in the environmental department.” Sonko has previously conducted cleaning drives and urged youths to turn up. “Youth can earn a living from doing simple things like collecting garbage from within our estates. I want to continue urging them to form groups, and they should make sure that they are registered and recognised by the authorities so that they can be given priority when tenders emerge,” he said. “I want to assure the youth in Dandora, that they will be among the first to be employed there. However, we will only take those who are already in the garbage collection business." Also read: They deserved to die, crime busters say on Dandora dumpsite killings Click here for the latest political news