Kakamega TSC director Raphael Tarus is under siege after county Knut leaders declared war on him, saying he harasses and interdicts teachers who don’t support DP Ruto. The Kenya National Union of Teachers leaders said they will forcibly eject him from office if the Teachers Service Commission fails to transfer him. They are accusing leaders allied to Deputy President Wiliam Ruto of using the TSC director to punish teachers and union leaders who don’t support the DP. Western branch Knut chairman Patrick Chungani and Kakamega chairperson Arcadius Liyayi said they will rally all the teachers against supporting the DP’s presidential bid in 2022. They spoke in Kakamega on Sunday. “Tarus is malicious and vengeful. We shall not sit back and watch him abuse teachers and Knut leaders. By all means, he must go,” Chungani said. Tarus could not be reached in the office or on the phone. He was said to be in a meeting. Chungani said the TSC officer is forcing teachers to write show cause letters over flimsy grounds and is interdicting others without any tangible reasons. Tarus is accused of interdicting Kakamega South Knut treasurer Carolyne Amwayi for attending a two-day union treasurers’ seminar at the Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development in Nairobi on November 19-20 last year. She was accused of leaving school without permission. Another interdicted is Kakamega Township Primary School headteacher Robert Opwora. He was accused of allegedly asking pupils to pay Sh300 to celebrate the appointment of a Cabinet secretary from the area. The union leaders also said Tarus has been targeting union leaders in the ongoing delocalisation of teachers. They said he has sent several of them away from their areas of jurisdiction to destabilise the union. “I’m disappointed with Tarus whose responsibility has turned into interdicting and delocalising teachers, especially those who are serving in the union as leaders in this county. Every day he is signing interdiction letters as if that is his main mandate,” Liyayi said. He said they are aware some MPs and leaders allied to Ruto are going to the county TSC director’s office and instructing Tarus to fire teachers who do not show support the DP’s presidential bid Liyayi said before Ruto thinks of visiting Kakamega county again, he should sort out “the mess being caused by Tarus” in the county. He said the frustrations are hurting education.