Nairobians’ long wait for the naming of deputy governor is not about to end soon - Governor Mike Sonko is not ready to name one. The governor said on Wednesday that he is not in a hurry to name the nominee. “We are in Africa and there is no hurry in Africa. Hurry hurry has no blessings. Why are people in a hurry to have this person?” Sonko retorted in an interview with Citizen TV on Wednesday. He was cagey on when he will break the news of his nominee to Nairobi voters. Two weeks ago, Sonko made changes in his cabinet. Members of the executive team had thinned to a half after the rest resigned. The latest to leave was Janet Ouko, the Education executive. He said that whereas he has a preferred candidate, the Nasa political coalition had complicated the matter with a request that one of its own be considered. The governor is still making consultations. “This is therefore to inform you that I shall not be forwarding the deputy governor nominee that I had chosen. I will nominate a suitable deputy governor after consultation,” he said. The county has been without a deputy governor since the resignation of Polycarp Igathe on January 12, 2017. Last May, Sonko nominated Canada-based lawyer Miguna Miguna to deputise him. But the nominee was rejected by the County Assembly. Two months later, the governor shortlisted four female candidates; Karen Nyamu, Jane Weru, Agnes Kagure and Bishop Margaret Wanjiru for nomination. But he never settled on any for presentation to the Speaker of the County Assembly. Sonko rubbished claims he was afraid of having a deputy governor who might end up being more popular and have him impeached. “I will not be the first the governor to be impeached. I know I have a very good working relationship with my MCAs so, I know I haven’t done anything wrong for me to be impeached.” The governor further said his government has been delivering services despite a few handicaps. “Nairobi is big and you cannot be everywhere at the same time but we are doing our best,” he said, adding: “So far we have done more than 87 roads at the sub-county level and are currently constructing four stadia that will meet FIFA standards. We are also upgrading the health facilities in Nairobi; we want the people of Nairobi to get good health care.” And without hesitation, the county boss said he will continue firing workers who break the law. “Dismantling cartels is not a joke. If you do the right thing you will be my friend, you engage in corruption and laziness you will go home,” he said categorically.