The firstborn daughter of Meru Senator Mithika Linturi says her father’s estranged wife Marriane Kitany was cruel and hostile during the time she stayed in the palatial Runda home. In an affidavit, the senators daughter says her father introduced Kitany to her and her siblings in around December 2017 and her mother, who was estranged from her father, was not staying with them at the Runda home. “My father informed us that Kitany was a friend in distress. My father also informed us that he had previously allowed her a temporary stay at our Runda Home,” She says Kitany and her three children moved into their Runda home a few days later which unnerved her. Nonetheless, she took comfort in her father’s assurance that Kitany was only staying temporarily and would move out immediately her condition improved. She says Litany put on the façade of a nice, friendly and supportive guest and would in the initial days take them for dinners and shopping. “I easily let my guard down after getting beguiled by her façade. My siblings however were more discerning. My brother even moved out to go live with his mother,” she says. Kitany's temporary stay at the Runda house turned indefinite. According to the court documents, things started spiraling out of control in January this year when she found out that her daughter got a navel piercing with her help. The two have had a nasty relationship ever since the incident which she believes was blown out of proportion. “She even accused me of being in possession of marijuana and orchestrated my being put into a rehabilitation center on the pretext that I was addicted to marijuana while her real motive was to create a wedge between my father and I,” read part of the affidavit. She says when she got back from the rehabilitation center, Kitany warned her that she needed to ‘behave’ and refrain from sabotaging her relationship with her father. “Ever since that warning, our relationship has been incompatible, like water and oil,” she says. She adds that the relationship between her and Kitany is very hostile and very different from the rosy picture she has painted in her affidavits. ”Kitany treats me and my siblings in a very cruel and hostile manner even though she is merely a guest at our Runda Home,” she says. She wants the court to dismiss the application filed by Kitany and discharge the interim order issued on October 25, last year. On October 25 last year, Kitany, obtained orders barring Linturi from entering the palatial Runda home. "Pending hearing and determination of this application, an interim order of protection is hereby issued against the respondent and or agent, employees and servants," read the court order. The senator was further restrained from physically or sexually abusing or threatening Kitany, her staff and their six children or any persons associated with her or damaging any of her property. But Kitany through Lawyer Danstan Omari has urged the court to confirm the said orders saying Kitany has faced the gravest of injustice occasioned by a person so loving, dear, and caring only to turn out to be the greatest tormentor He said since the case before court deals with domestic violence, Kitany has an inherent dignity which should be protected. Ruling will be delivered on February 1.