The Somalia government
and its citizens mourned the cowardly attack committed by at least six heavily
armed al Shabaab militants on Tuesday that killed 21
people in DusitD2 hotel in Nairobi's posh Riverside area. All the six al Shaitan
or devil’s militants were confirmed dead. A seventh man said to have been among
them in the planning, and had lunch with then at Oilibya, Limuru Road, is still
being pursued by police. Let us hope he is nabbed to face charges. I refer to
the group as al Shaitan or the Devil because it is a fitting name for them as
they act at the behest of the Devil. President Mohamed
Farmaajo sent a condolence message to eulogise with Kenyans over the attack. He
condemned the merciless attack and said the evil acts will only strengthen the
ties between the two countries to redouble their efforts in defeating
terrorism. "I strongly
condemn the terrorist attack in Nairobi. Our thoughts and prayers are with the
government and the People of Kenya at this tragic time. Kenya is an important
ally and a brotherly neighbour. Such heinous acts only serve to embolden our
joint quest to vanquish terror," he said. STATE OF FELICITY Ordinary Somalis in
Somalia know too well the pain and loss that comes with al Shaitan attacks,
which carries almost daily similar or much worse and grandeur attacks that
sometimes claims hundreds of victims than the DusitD2 Hotel attack. Somalis feel the pain that Kenyans go through and genuinely sympathise with
them. In fact some in their messages of sympathy wondered why al Shaitan alias
al Shabaab would target civilians in Nairobi who have no much experience in the
terror spread by al Shaitan and urge them to instead localise their bloody
campaign in Somalia where the public have gained enough experience in dealing
with the trauma that comes with their evil acts. No wonder ordinary
Somalis move around in Mogadishu in a state of ablution or wudhuu. This is a
state of felicity or holiness that every Muslim is required to undertake before
saying his or her prayers. Basically, you intend to take ablution or wudhuu by
washing your face three times, your hands three times, wiping your forehead three
times and lastly washing your legs three times. If you die in that
state, then you die while in state of felicity. This is the Somalis way of
preparing themselves for any eventuality of al Shaitan bloody campaign. Psychologically,
it’s as if the people have accepted death is with them and prepare to die while
in a state of felicity. Somalis, especially from Mogadishu who have borne the brunt of al Shaitan urged
the group to stop targeting unsuspecting civilians from other countries and
bring their evils home in Mogadishu as they've always done before. I really
hope al Shaitan heeds to the advice. TERRORISM IS NOT ISLAMIC Somalis took to social media to share their sombre messages and
shock after the horrible news of the attack broke out. It is human nature to
feel the pain of other human beings and to console and support them
whenever they are in a life-threatening situation. It is important to
note that victims of the inhumane attack were from different religion, tribe,
ethnicity and nationality, going about their normal businesses when the terrorists
broke their peace. Kenyan Somali businessman elder Yasin Jama, who spoke to Citizen TV, rightly
shared the sombre mood amongst families that lost their loved ones. His son
survived but two of his friends never made it. He said the attackers had
nothing to do with Islam because there is nowhere in the religion where Allah
orders for the murder of innocent people. Terrified survivors of the Nairobi incident also shared with media their
horrible encounters with the brainwashed attackers from Kenya and Somalia. I
call them al Shaitan because it is a fitting name for such mind boggling
cowardly attack against unarmed civilians. The saddest part is that three or most likely four of the attackers are
believed to be Kenyan nationals, two of who have been confirmed to hail from
Nyeri and Kiambu. This sends chills in our spines and confirms our worst fears that
the terror group has sleeper cells in this beautiful country called Kenya. This
shows how far the militants will go in spreading their terror as far as Kenya
hundreds of miles from their Somalia base where they plot their evil acts.  BRAINWASHING It is important to
note that the group targets new Muslim recruits who might not have a strong
Islamic faith and knowledge that are then brainwashed to join and believe in
the terror campaign. Even in Somalia, the group is known to target underage
children for recruitment because they have limited Islamic knowledge. The
adults who join them in Somalia are either mentally retarded or illiterate because
no sane Muslim who has a sound knowledge of Islam will join a murderous gang
like al Shabaab. As we mourn our dead, let us also pray for the
wounded to quickly regain their health. We should never accept to be divided by
terrorism. This is the moment for Kenyans to unite, be strong and patriotic. The public must continue to cooperate with
authorities and share crucial information about terror suspects hiding amongst
us so that they can be flushed out before they commit another horrendous
attack. This is the only way the seventh man on the run can be arrested. I also loud President Uhuru Kenyatta’s firm
statement that the government will hunt down all those involved in the planning
and financing of the heinous attack. No one should be spared in order to teach
a lesson to corrupt individuals, who might have been compromised or bought by
the merciless agents of death. We must act fast and firm if we are to defeat
this merciless gang that taints the peaceful religion of Islam. 