Poultry farmers in Gatundu, Kiambu county, want the government to impose a total ban on the importation of eggs to save their business. Cheap imports from Tanzania, Uganda and South Africa have forced the farmers to sell their eggs at throwaway prices, they complain. At times they give eggs to neighbours free of charge. The farmers, both in Gatundu North and South subcounties told the Star separately that the eggs market has been ruined by cheap imports.Felistas Nyambura, who keeps more that 3,000 layers, said most farmers in the area had been forced out of business due to poor prices and lack of market. “It has become a difficult task to settle bank loans we acquired to initiate and sustain this business, all because there is no market for our products. The state should consider imposing a total ban on eggs importation because Kenyan farmers have the capacity to satisfy the demand for eggs in the country,” Nyambura said. The mother of three said powerful cartels control the importation of poultry products at the expense of hardworking local farmers. “The state should move swiftly and dismantle these cartels that are working hard to suppress the efforts of poor Kenyan farmers. Empowerment of local farmers will only be achieved if ready markets are available and at better prices. Poultry business cannot thrive in Kenya if we allow these people to flood our markets with the cheap imports,” Nyambura said. Beatrice Njoroge of Kamwangi village said if the government intended to keep trade ties with other countries, then it should impose high taxes on the imports to protect local producers. “The government should put the interests of its citizens first and ensure that the plight of all farmers is addressed,” Njoroge said. “Agriculture is the backbone of our country’s economy and the government should not allow importation of locally available products because this will be detrimental to the growth of the agriculture sector,” Njoroge said. She asked the National Assembly to pass laws that protect farmers from exploitation. “Why are our products rotting in our stores when we have MPs who can pass laws to protect farmers?” she asked. Young farmer Kimani Kang’ethe, who used all his savings on poultry, said he had incurred heavy losses. “I have spent a lot on inputs in my farming and ensured maximum production but the rate of return is low. I’m contemplating abandoning this business because I’m getting no proceeds from it,” Kimani said.