Interior CS Fred Matiangi on Monday said the government will not spare perpetrators of the Dusit attack that left 21 people dead. He said all security apparatus are doing all they can to avoid any attack in future. Speaking in Mombasa on Monday after meeting security chiefs, Matiang'i said he has fully been briefed by the DCI on the progress in investigations. "I want to assure all Kenyans that we are on the right course and we are soon going to unravel all the perpetrators," he said. "As a government we remain committed to the rule of law. We must ensure that everyone who was involved in the attack either directly of indirectly is brought to book." Matiang'i's statement came hours after police spokesman Charles Owino said three more suspects in addition to the first five in custody had been arrested. They are Ibrahim Ali Buyo (19) and Aden Hassan, arrested in Alinjugur, Fafi subcounty and Mohamed Abdirahman Abdalla (40) in Hagdera market. They are suspected to have facilitated the terrorists that executed the terror attack at the hotel and business complex on 14 Riverside Drive last Tuesday. "We have recovered from the suspects three firearms; a Makarov ATM 3846 pistol with one magazine loaded with eight rounds of ammunition, a new model browning pistol serial number 609101 with one magazine loaded with 15 rounds of ammunition, and a pistol make CF 98-9 serial number 15-CN 029336 loaded with 13 rounds of ammunition," Owino said. Read: Three more Dusit terror suspects arrested The wife of Mahir Khalid Riziki, the suicide bomber behind the Dusit terror attack, was arrested alongside his father on Saturday but were later released on Sunday after interrogation. Read: Death toll from Dusit attack rises to 21, two suspects arrested See: Cops release wife of Dusit suicide bomber Concerning the ongoing police police reforms, Matiang'i officially unveiled the eight regional commanders and 46 county commanders. New commanders were named on January 3. Matiang'i urged the new commanders to work hard to address the discord that has existed within the service for decades. He said the new appointments and promotions were based on performance. "We have no option but to work together. Let us stop this silo mentality and collectively address the discord to intensify the mode of service delivery," he said. Matiang'i said such a move is the only way to put an end to blame games that have manifested in the past. Click here for the latest political news