Recruitment of a new VC for Masinde Muliro University could take a tribal turn after leaders demanded that the post be reserved for a Luhya. Lurambi MP Titus Khamala yesterday warned that a Luhya must lead the institution, otherwise, “It will not be business as usual.” He told the university council that politicians from the region will not accept a vice chancellor who is not one of their own. “I’m speaking for the silent majority. We’re tired of being a dumping ground, whereas our sons are ejected elsewhere. Where should they go? Our community has not benefitted from the university and can’t take pride in it,” he told the Star on the phone. Khamala said Luhya professionals have been barred from leading universities in other regions, although they are qualified. His comments were an apparent reference to Moi University, where Kalenjin politicians and residents demanded that a Kalenjin take charge. In the Moi case, Prof Laban Ayiro was appointed as acting VC. Politicians, including Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago, led protests against him. Prof Isaac Kosgey, their favourite, was eventually appointed. A similar script is playing out — only the region and players have changed. Universities, however, are supposed to promote unity and reflect the face of Kenya. The Masinde Muliro University Council is in the process of hiring a new VC after Prof Fredrick Otieno’s tenure expired. Deputy VC slots will also be filled. Last month, Education CS Amina Mohamed appointed Prof Joseph Bosire of Jaramogi Oginga Odinga University of Science and Technology as acting VC. Local leaders consider Bosire an outsider like Otieno. They are out scuttle any plans to have him, or any other non-native, assume the role on a permanent basis. Workers unions have, however, pledged support for the acting boss. Otieno’s tenure had been mired in wrangles. He sought to have his contract renewed. This split the council, which, in August last year, advised against extension. On Monday, council member Frank Kusiom resigned. He accused University Education PS Colleta Suda of intimidating them to renew Otieno’s term. He said Suda wants all members to toe her line and “despises independent minds”. “The PS has permanently ensured the current transition at the university is managed through her office and cronies. Any council member perceived to have divergent views is harassed, intimidated and threatened,” Kusiom said. The PS dismissed the claims as falsehoods. She said Kusiom was seeking sympathy after getting the the job in violation of the law, which barred him because he was already a permanent employee of the National Land Commission. Yesterday, Khamala said the university has locked out residents from getting jobs and has not helped the community. Universities are under the management of the national government. In recent years, however, the country has witnessed increased ethnicisation of the institutions. Meanwhile, changes have been carried out in the university council ahead of the recruitment. The CS, in a Gazette notice dated December 28, swapped Masinde Muliro council chairman Jeremy Bundi with Pwani University chairperson Jane Mutua. She also appointed Dr Ahmed Diriye to the Masinde Muliro council, replacing Frank Kusiom, who is said to have quit on Monday.