The Ministry of Education is crafting regulations to get rid of informal schools. The regulations will compel both registered and unregistered informal schools to either be private or public institutions. According to the Education CS Amina Mohamed, such schools create disparity in teaching and learning, as primary education is free. Amina further says allowing informal schools subjects some learners to ‘second class’ education. “We have free primary education and free day secondary education so if this child goes to an informal school and they have to pay, what does that make them? It doesn’t matter what you pay. The decision they have to make is to either have public or private schools,” the CS said. The ministry says it is ready to acquire some of the informal schools that will be affected by the decision. Those with financial resources will be required to upgrade their institutions to private institutions. “We want policies that ensure standards of education are the same. Most of the informal schools are in slum areas and we are working to have enough public schools there too,” Amina told the Star in an exclusive interview. Should the government do this, Kenya will join neighbouring Uganda, which outlawed informal schools early last year. The plan puts existence of the biggest provider of informal education Bridge International Academy in an uncertain future having suffered a push and pull over the past few years over their legality. Speaking to the Star yesterday, Terry Ndhanga a communication official at BIA said the institutions are in the process of registration with ministry officials evaluating others. Data from the ministry indicates only four schools near West Pokot county under the BIA chain of institutions are registered. Ndhanga noted a status report by the government will inform on the future of the institutions. “The government has been conducting inspections on the institutions and so far the county education boards have been given back 157 status reports out of the over 300 schools we run. We are waiting for the remaining reports,” Ndanga said. Bone of contention The ministry criticises the institutions for charging fees to provide services and failing to meet requirements to facilitate their registration. The policy framework for Alternative Provision of Basic Education and Training, otherwise called informal schools, was developed in 2009 to facilitate access to quality basic education and training for hard-to-reach communities such as slums. Ministry data show that in the three years more than 400 institutions have unsuccessfully sought licenses to operate informally, some in areas where the institutions are not legally allowed. “We need standards for education. If they can’t meet this requirement, then it is not safe for our children to be there,” Amina said. 