Barely 12 days after Telkom women’s hockey team bagged the 2018 Safaricom Sports Personality team of the Year Award, they are back in the limelight with forward Jackline Mwangi being named the StarTimes Sports Personality of the Month for December. The former Kenya international emerged top scorer at the 2018 Africa Cup for Club Championship held in Abuja, Nigeria last December. Her five goals helped Telkom reclaim the continental club title after a 2-0 win over holders Ghana Revenue Authority (GRA). Her partnership up-front with fellow striker Audrey Omaido, who also bagged five goals, saw the team clinch a record 10th title. Telkom had relinquished their title to GRA last year after a 1-0 loss in the final in Accra. The evergreen striker was also crowned the 2018 Kenya Hockey Union women’s Premier League top scorer as the season concluded in December. Her 16 goals propelled Telkom to a record 21st title in yet another dominant season in which they finished unbeaten. Mwangi has won golden stick accolades for third successive time. “It feels good to be feted for this award and It encourages me to keep performing at the highest level. Obviously, I could not have done it without my teammates and coach so I also thank them for their support,” said a delighted Mwangi through a phone conversation. “Jackie has been an asset to this team for the past 7 years. I have seen a lot of discipline and determination in her since we started playing,” said Tracy Karanja who received the trophy on Mwangi’s behalf. Speaking during the award ceremony, StarTimes Marketing and PR director Japhet Akhulia noted: “Mwangi becomes our 18th recipient of the monthly award and is a true testament of our progressive effort to recognize outstanding sports men and women. We will continue to support this noble course in encouraging sporting excellence in the country.” She beat volleyballers Abiud Chirchir and Mercy Moim, who were voted the Most Valuable Players at the 2018 Kenya Volleyball Federation playoffs, after helping their sides General Service Unit and Kenya Prisons win the men and women’s titles. Equity Hawks star Seline Okumu was also in the running for the award after helping her side win the Kenya Basketball Federation women’s title at the expense of holders Kenya Ports Authority. Her exploits saw her voted MVP.