STARRING: James McAvoy, Bruce Willis, Anya Taylor-Joy, Sarah Paulson, Samuel L Jackson WRITTEN, DIRECTED BY: M Night Shyamalan RELEASE DATE: January 18  Shyamalan is known for his ability to create artistic subjectivity in his productions. Sometimes, his ambition has cost him much more than the budget to create the film. His fascination with psychoanalytic representations in films is overly ambitious in this generation of trends and 15 seconds of fame. David Dunn and his son Joseph work together to take down criminals in the neighbourhood. Dunn and Joseph, believe Dunn was left with superhero-like abilities as the effect of the only man to survive an awful train crash. Dunn believes Kevin Wendell Crumb, aka The Horde, has abducted four cheerleaders. The Horde has the ability to transform into 23 other personas. His 24th and the most dangerous persona, having recently exposed itself, is known as The Beast. The Beast has animal-like traits. Dunn and The Beast engage in a fight that is only broken up when the two are captured and sent to a mental institution, where they are introduced to Dr Ellie Staple. Ellie is a psychiatrist who specialises in people believed to have superhero abilities. At the institution, the two are forced to work in group therapy session with Ellie and another patient known as Mr Glass. Glass is Dunn’s sworn enemy. Ellie tries to convince them that their ‘hero-like’ abilities have a simple explanation that has nothing to do with superhuman powers. But it turns out that Ellie’s interest in the three men is driven by a lot more than just psychological studies. The film is the last of Shyamalan’s Eastrail 177 Trilogy; following the film Split (2016) and Unbreakable (2000). Unlike its characters, the film is tediously unremarkable. The lengthy dialogues and over-explanations of events drag on for most of the film’s running time. The only beacon of light in this film is McAvoy’s amazing transformation into multiple characters in the blink of an eye. Perhaps it’s good that Shyamalan let this disaster rest, after almost two decades of unenthusiastically creating films that make no impact whatsoever.  Star Rating: 2/5