A 13-year-old girl who was raped by two men after cutting her clitoris on Thursday night suffered severe injuries that need surgery. The rapists were in a group of four but the other two did not participate in the attack. The Standard 8 pupil is recovering at the Homa Bay County Referral Hospital. She is not ready to resume her studies yet, doctors said. Yesterday, hospital acting CEO Meshack Liru said the girl was severely injured in her private parts and she has to undergo surgery. “Her discharge schedule is interfered with and must be evaluated by a surgeon and a gynecologist to find out if the repair would be successful,” he said. The doctor said the girl would have to undergo medical procedures before she is released to go back to school. She will also be taken through counselling. Liru said the girl is still not stable enough to resume her studies. “The fate of her returning to school would depend on success of the operations, which will take time. But we’re determined to ensure she recovers,” he said. See also: Malindi girl, 15, raped, made pregnant by employer gets justice She suffered the ordeal at Shauri Yako estate in Homa Bay town. Her mother said the two men cut her daughters clitoris after raping her. She said the incident occurred when the girl went to answer a call of nature in the latrine at 10pm. “They cut the minor’s genitals with a razor blade after the girl refused to have sex with them,” the mother said. She said the two men choked and blindfolded her daughter to prevent her from screaming and recognising them. They raped her in turns. The girl bled profusely. The mother has urged security officials in the county to take action so her daughter can get justice. “All I’m praying for is justice. The assailants nearly killed my daughter,” she said. Homa Bay county police commander Marius Tum said they have arrested two suspects in connection with the heinous act. Tum said preliminary investigations shows there were four men who collaborated in defiling the girl. “We are holding two men in custody. Meanwhile, we are still looking for the other two,” he said. Tum said they will ensure the culprits are punished. Related: Police hunt rape gang that killed girl, 6, drank blood, ate body parts Click here for
the latest political news