A case that had put the Embu County Assembly and the executive at loggerheads has been withdrawn to improve relations between the two arms of government. Nominated MCA Margaret Kariuki had sued the assembly over her ejection from the budget and appropriations committee in October last year, saying it was illegal. The case created enmity between the assembly and Governor Martin Wambora. MCAs accused Wambora of being behind the case. Speaker Josiah Thiriku yesterday said Kariuki has formally withdrawn the case from the High Court in Embu. “Margaret decided to settle the matter out of court and therefore she signed consent between her and the assembly to withdraw the case. We are just waiting for the formal acceptance by the court,” Thiriku told the Star by phone. The deal to withdraw the case was reached during a meeting between the governor and the ward representatives at the La Mada Hotel in Nairobi last Thursday. Thiriku said the two arms of government resolved to put aside their political differences and work for the residents. The speaker said both parties have agreed to share the cost of the suit. He said Kariuki’s decision was good and welcome. “The withdrawal of the case will facilitate a jovial working relationship between MCAs and the executive,” he added. Kariuki had sought reinstatement to the committee, saying her removal was illegal. Her request was granted by Justice Florence Muchemi, but the assembly failed to implement the order. The court then summoned Thiriku to explain why he could not be jail ed for contempt. The MCAs had put pressure on Wambora to prevail upon Kariuki to withdraw the case. Wambora had denied being behind the case, saying Kariuki had sued to contest “perceived violation of her rights.” Later, he admitted he persuaded Kariuki to withdraw the suit for the sake of unity and peace. MCAs had even demonstrated against the governor, demanding that he should ask Kariuki to withdraw the case. The standoff reached fever pitch after MCAs passed a motion barring the budget committee from deliberating on any motion in which the executive sought funds. The move had caused projects to stall.