Nairobi governor Mike Sonko’s administration lack of effective public participation in the county projects is aiding corruption and poor public service delivery. The national taxpayers association Nairobi County Citizens’ Report Card for the financial year 2015/16 and 2017/18 report says that most projects in the county have stalled.  Sonko inherited the seat from the former governor Evans Kidero in 2017 after the disputed polls. NTA add that other projects have been poorly implemented in a clear scheme to swindle taxpayers’ funds. “The county should involve citizens at every stage of project implementation to enhance project effectiveness and ownership,” NTA national Coordinator Irene Otieno said. Otieno was speaking yesterday at a Nairobi hotel after launching the new report. The launch ceremony was attended by Nairobi stakeholders. “The report paints a grim picture on the status of implementation of projects and lack of public participation of citizens in the projects targeted,” she said. The projects identified include rehabilitation of schools construction of roads, construction of modern markets, stalls and health facilities. Other projects are the installation of street lights, construction of ward administrators’ offices and the construction of the education facilities among others. “In fact, citizens failed to identify themselves with the projects being implemented by the county government. The county should involve them at every stage of the project implementation to enhance the project effectiveness and ownership,” she said. “The county should adopt the model of the project management committee to enhance citizen participation and civilian oversight. This will also make it easier to track project proposals, disbursement and expenditure,” Otieno said. NTA want the information on county projects availed at the lowest level possible to easy supervision and monitory. The association also calls on the county to ensure the value for money on projects implemented. “The County government should improve the badly implemented projects and complete all stalled/ abandoned projects. They should serve taxpayers,” NTA said. They also want county officials to involve citizen in all projects at all levels of implantation. "The locals know what they want. And they also know how it should be implemented to serve them better," she said. The association is also calling for regular inspection of county government projects by national and county governments to protect the taxpayers' funds.