Embu governor Martin Wambora should talk to MCAs to end a stalemate that could paralyse county operations, two legislators have said. Senator Njeru Ndwiga and nominated MP Cecily Mbarire said the standoff between the two was the reason the assembly passed a motion preventing the Budget committee from discussing allocations. They blamed the stalemate for the unanimous decision last week to sack two chief officers over alleged corruption. The two politicians said residents will suffer owing to the bad blood between the assembly and the executive. Ndwiga told the Star by phone that all county leaders should be given time to serve the electorate. The senator said the county seems to have a communication problem between the executive and the assembly. He said he has in the past called on the governor to convene special meetings with MCAs as they have an oversight role and the governor has the duty tolead the county to achieve its development goals. Ndwiga commended a recent meeting between the governor and the ward reps in Mombasa, which he attended. He said such forums are necessary for better working relations. “I want to call on the governor to initiate serious dialogue with the county assembly to look for remedies for problems facing the county. That is the problem in Embu. There is no other problem.” Mbarire said she decided to support Wambora after losing to him in the last General Election to serve the people of Embu. She spoke when she joined the governor at the burial of one of the country’s popular weight lifters, Conrad Njeru, alias Tiger Power, at Kevote on Saturday. She called on leaders and residents to accord Wambora a conducive environment to work for the county, saying that the people are more important than any individual interests. “We want to see Embu county growing, so when we hear turbulence we get concerned. Your Excellency the governor, sit with your MCAs and find where the problem is and solve it. If you are unable, call all the leaders to sit as children of one house and find what is ailing the county,’ she said. Mbarire said it would be sad for Embu to have a repeat of five years ago when wrangles between the governor and the assembly Wambora’s first term. She said such disputes are to blame for the county lagging behind.