Two assistant chiefs were among 11 people who were killed in a road accident near HZ, along the Eldoret-Kaptagat-Ravine road on Monday night. Witnesses said the driver of PSV vehicle KBG 735L heading to Ravine lost control and rolled several times after hitting rail guards on a steep section of the road. They said the driver did not seem familiar with the sharp corner where the accident happened. The road is steep and winding. The chiefs were traveling back to their homes after attending a meeting in Iten. Eight of the victims died on the spot. Three others, including the two sub-chiefs on their way to Moi Referral Hospital in Eldoret. Three other people have been admitted in critical condition. “Among those who died are nine men and two women. The injured have broken limb but but we are working to ensure they are out of danger,” hospital CEO Wilson Aruasa said. BLACK SPOT Police reports indicate the vehicle rolled in a steep section of the road that is in bad shape due to potholes. Assistant county commissioner Raymond Jembe said he was aware that the two assistant chiefs were among the dead. “According to witnesses, the vehicle appeared to have been rspeeding down the road when suddenly it hit the rail guards and rolled down,” Jembe said. He said the area was prone to accidents and urged drivers to be careful because the road is steep, twisting and often slippery. Many lives have been lost there. Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos and Deputy Governor Wesley Kiptoo mourned those who died and said the two chiefs had been reliable administrators. “Accidents have been causing us to lose very valuable people. We urge drivers to exercise caution on the roads,” Tolgos said. He said the National Transport and Safety Authority should continuously educate Kenyans on road safety to reduce accidents. Four people died on the spot in 2014,” said witness Alex Barsulai. He said crashes are rare but when they do happen, many lives are lost at one time. Residents have appealed to NTSA to erect road signs at the scene to show matatu drivers that the area is a blackspot.