A notorious broker and wheeler-dealer is at it again, this time trying to fix for some senior officers from a county in Nyanza in a DCI probe over alleged theft of billions of shillings. The go-between has held a series of meetings with the officers from the county to “fix” their case with the DCI. The flamboyant man brags that he is a close friend of senior officers at the DCI . Already, millions of shillings have been earmarked to kill the case and to ensure the officers are not prosecuted. The officers also brag they have their way with the EACC and now want to have their say with the DCI. It seems new EACC boss Twalib Mbarak has his work cut out. We call it kichapo cha mbwa or life-threatening beating. This is what Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko’s top employee encountered on Thursday. He suffered heavy blows and punches from a human rights boss who could not fear the home territory of the employee nor the retinue of goons and security that hang around City Hall to protect the interests of the executive. The man was questioning why the city honcho had grabbed his land in Nairobi. An argument ensued and the county employee tried to dismiss him with you will do nothing line. But before he could pause, he had an uppercut that sent him to the ground. He staggered back to his feet only to meet a barrage of heavy blows as security intervened. The guards were overheard celebrating the humiliation of the irritating boss. A commissioner in one of the many commissions has put a smile on the face of one of the pastors of a charismatic church based in Ongata Rongai. The man of God was recently handed a brand new Prado TX. Why? It was a thank you present for prayers she believed slowed down the police investigation into her corrupt deals. She was overheard saying the pastor has helped keep her off the radar of the EACC and the DCI. But is it moral for men of the cloth to accept corruption gifts? did the campaign to rid our roads of matatu madness stop or was it suspended during the December holidays? Well, corridor has noticed that matatu anarchy is back bold and rejuvenated. A cross-check in many towns, including Nairobi, show they are driving on pavements, touting is back and overloading is the norm again. Is the transport sector proving a difficult nut to crack for Interior CS Fred Matiang’i? His team, is looking the other way as rouge matatu drivers press Sh50 and Sh100 notes into sweaty palms of corrupt traffic officers. Click here for the latest political news