A Makueni woman who was filmed being assaulted by her husband has been taken to Nairobi Women's hospital for treatment and counseling. Margaret Nthambi, the 37-year-old mother of one who had sought refuge in her parents’ home in Yieini village, Makindu subcounty was picked on Saturday by Makueni deputy governor Adelina Mwau and taken to the facility. Mwau blamed the police for taking too long to arrest James Mweu, who was captured assaulting Nthambi at their home in Sultan Hamud on Wednesday night. The case was reported at the Sultan Hamud police station but the suspect who hawks energy drinks in the town is yet to be arrested. “The police should have arrested the suspect because the matter has been reported to them. He is a dangerous man who should face the law,” the deputy governor said. Nthambi said her husband arrived home drunk, in the company of three men and started beating her. He accused her of sharing their matrimonial bed with other men, claims that were refuted by his wife. "When I opened the gate, he descended on me with kicks and blows and shoved me to the ground. He tore my clothes and threatened to kill me with a knife he was holding," she told The Star during an interview. In the 34-minute video clip that appears to have been captured at night, people are heard pleading with the man to spare her. Nthambi said she was rescued by her neighbours and treated at Sultan Hamud subcounty hospital before she fled to her parent’s home. She decided to separate from her husband after the incident. "I don't want to go back there, but I appeal for assistance to repossesses the property that I left behind," Nthambi said. "I fear he would kill me one day as he has been threatening to.” Her mother Rose Mwanza, supported her daughter's decision to separate with the husband saying she would not encourage her to stay with a brutal husband. "This is not the first time she has come to us after being assaulted by her husband. Enough is enough, she won't go back there when she recovers," she said. Last year, a Makueni court jailed Daudi Nzomo for 12 years after he was filmed assaulting his wife and the video went viral. On Wednesday, the county government of Makueni partnered with Nairobi Women Hospital to address gender-based violence. Click here for the latest political news