Development, the upcoming census and unity headed the agenda of a meeting of Kisii and Nyamira leaders on Friday. Unity, they said, will increase their bargaining power at the national level. The meeting at Ufanisi Resort in Kisii town had been called to chart the community’s future. Today they will meet in Nairobi. The leaders, under the chairmanhip of Governors James Ongwae (Kisii) and John Nyagarama (Nyamira), put aside their political differences to drive the Omogusii agenda. “For the first time, 18 out of 21 elected leaders from the two counties came together and held a meeting aimed at unifying the Omogusii and taking a common stand on various issues,” Kisii deputy governor Joash Maangi said. They discussed President Uhuru Kenyatta’s January 23-24 visit to the two counties during which he will open a 250-bed male ward, a mortuary, a doctor’s plaza and other facilities at the Kisii Teaching and Referral Hospital. They pledged to support the President’s Big Four development agenda. MP Joash Nyamoko (North Mugirango) hailed the joint event as historic. “We also discussed the forthcoming census and resolved that our people actively participate. We want to ensure everyone is counted because population will be used in revenue sharing,” Nyamoko said. “The delineation of the boundaries before 2022 was discussed, but we agreed to focus on the census because population will play a key role in boundaries review.” One of the other pressing matters discussed was the eucalyptus tree. They pushed for uprooting of the eucalyptus from riparian areas. “Our counties have become water-scarce. Several rivers have dried up and we agreed to have the legislation in place so people can cut the trees from water catchment areas,” Nyamoko said. Among those in attendance were senators Sam Ongeri (Kisii), Okong’o Omogeni (Nyamira), woman representatives Jerusha Momanyi (Nyamira) and Janet Ongera (Kisii). Others were Vincent Kemosi (West Mugirango), Shadrack Mose (Kitutu Masaba), Ben Momanyi (Borabu), Ezekiel Machogu (Nyaribari Masaba), Richard Tong’i (Nyaribari Chache), Zadoc Ogutu (Bomachoge Borabu), Silvanus Osoro (South Mugirango), Alfah Miruka (Bomachoge Chache), Jimmy Angwenyi (Kitutu Chache North) and Oroo Oyioka (Bonchari).