Ol Kalou residents have protested against the use of county land meant for a university by private individuals. The locals demonstrated at Captain on Saturday, accusing the county administration of leasing 50 acres to private individuals to grow wheat. They expressed concern it is a plot to grab the land. However, Nyandarua county secretary Hiram Kahiro and Education executive Faith Mbugua denied the government has leased the land to private individuals. They said teachers from the neighbouring Salient Secondary School wanted to till the land, but were intercepted. The land was donated by Salient Secondary School for building Nyandarua University College. Mbugua accused 2017 governor aspirant Moses Kiarie and former Kaimbaga MCA Kimani Njiraini of hiring youths to demonstrate. “We should learn to stop blowing things out of proportion for political mileage," she said in a text message. Salient Secondary School deputy principal Daniel Wanyoike on Sunday denied teachers were ploughing the land. “I am not aware of that," he said. Protesters accused the government of taking residents for a ride given the university was supposed to be up and running by May last year, as Governor Francis Kimemia promised during the 2017 election campaigns. The first batch was to start learning at Agricultural Training College, Gatimu, Ol joro orok pending the building of the main campus at Captain, but this is yet to happen. “The governor promised the people of Nyandarua that he will start a university within the first 100 days after his victory. But nothing has happened so far. Instead, private individuals have leased the land meant for the Institution," Kiarie said. He urged the county government to fence off the land and employ youths to guard it. Kiarie urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to intervene for the Nyandarua University to be built. Njiraini said people were ploughing the land despite a signboard indicating it is the proposed site for Nyandarua University College, a constituent college of the University of Nairobi. “We will not allow this and anybody who brings their tractors here will have themselves to blame," he said. Resident Joseph Gitau said the land started being ploughed on December 31 last year, but Captain residents stopped it and sent the tractor away. “If this land will be cultivated instead of building the university, then youths should be given small portions instead of leasing the land to well-connected individuals. Alternatively,it should be turned into a football pitch," he said. Click here for the latest political news