Three more suspects in the DusitD2 terror attack have been arrested. Police spokesman Charles Owino said in a statement Ibrahim Ali Buyo (19) and Aden Hassan were arrested in Alinjugur within Fafi subcounty, Garissa county, while Mohamed Abdirahman Abdalla (40) was arrested in Hagdera market. They are suspected to have facilitated the terrorists that executed the terror attack at the hotel and business complex on 14 Riverside Drive last Tuesday, killing 21 people. "We have recovered from the suspects three firearms; a Makarov ATM 3846 pistol with one magazine loaded with eight rounds of ammunition, a new model browning pistol serial number 609101 with one magazine loaded with 15 rounds of ammunition, and a pistol make CF 98-9 serial number 15-CN 029336 loaded with 13 rounds of ammunition," Owino said. Read: Death toll from Dusit attack rises to 21, two suspects arrested The arrest brings to eight the total number of suspects in police custody over the attack. On Friday, five suspects were arraigned at Milimani court and detained for 30 days pending investigations. They are Joel Nganga, Oliver Muthee, Gladys Kaari, Guleid Abdihakim and Osman Ibrahim. Two other suspects, Sahaila Bakari Mwinyi, the wife to suicide bomber at the attack Mahir Khalid Riziki was released on Sunday alongside Khalid's father. Reports indicate that Riziki had informed Sahaila that he was in Nairobi for unspecified work, three days prior to the attack. Read: Cops release wife of Dusit suicide bomber Read also: Five Dusit attack suspects arraigned In his statement on Sunday, Owino appealed to members of the public to share information on several other suspected accomplices who are on the run. He said security agencies are also closely monitoring the activities of three other suspects from Isiolo who are believed to have crossed into Somalia and may cross over to Kenya to launch attacks. "They include Dido Mohammed Fugicha alias Dingdong, Hussein Aden Hussein alias Etto, and Gaddafi alias Munene," Owino said. He said the three escaped to Somalia to join the al Shabaab. Owino said police are also looking for Boru Abdi Bidu, Ramadhan Wario Bonaya alias Rasho and Abdi Ali Kachora. He said the three had previously been arrested and are believed to have crossed over to Somalia as well. Detectives are also in pursuit of Violet Kemunto, the wife to one of the suspects Ali Salim Gichunge. Owino also released photos of two other suspects whose names he didn't mention saying they were planning to sneak into the country for criminal acts. "We believe they are currently in Somalia and are making efforts to fraudulently acquire Kenyan identities," Owino said. In his speech after the attack, President Uhuru Kenyatta said Kenya's security forces would pursue those involved in the Dusit attack to wherever they will be hiding. Meanwhile, police on Sunday night repulsed an attack at a Chinese construction site in Dujis near Modogashe. "It has been repulsed. We suspect attackers either dead or fled with serious injuries," IG Joseph Boinnet said without giving more details. More: Terrorists hid bullets, grenades inside Dusit 