SportPesa Premier League defending champions Gor Mahia will be angling for their third win of the 2018-2019 season when they host Posta Rangers today at Moi Stadium, Kasarani in a rescheduled match. The match was initially scheduled for December 26 at Moi Stadium Kisumu but the club opted for Kasarani in readiness for their forthcoming Caf Confederations Cup, according to their deputy secretary general, Ronald Ngala. “We want to play as many matches as possible at Kasarani in readiness to our forthcoming Caf assignments.” K’Ogalo, who are currently placed eighth with seven points have had a start to forget in their title defence, winning two out of their opening five matches and will be out to scale three places high on the log and gain feet in their bid to retain the league. Similarly, Rangers who parted ways with last season’s coach Sammy ‘Pamzo’ Omollo at the start of the new year kicked off their season poorly, winning twice and losing thrice and will be determined to rattle the champions and move seven places on the table. Rangers served off the post “Pamzo” era on the wrong footing, bowing 2-0 to AFC Leopards in the first match of the year but hastily recovered and downed Kakamega Homeboyz 1-0 last weekend and will be looking to ferry the same form in today’s match. However, coach John Kamau who replaced Pamzo will have to worry of the calibre of the opponent who boast of the availability of Dennis Oliech who made his return to the local league last weekend against Mathare United, throwing their defence in panic mood. Rangers defenders are expected to have a torrid afternoon in containing the burly forward who will be out to open his goal account with the champions after the failing to find the back of the net on his debut. Even though he might start from the bench, his presence is expected to inspire and challenge the striking triumvirate of Jacques Tuyisenge, Erisa Ssekisambu and Ephrem Guikan to step up their goal hunting skills to avoid losing their starting berths. Rangers have had a poor run against the champions, bagging maximum points once from the last 12 meetings, sharing spoils four times before succumbing seven times. Last season Gor comfortably collected six points against Rangers recording a 2-1 in the last meeting the while the first leg encounter had seen Rangers soak five unanswered goals. A win for Gor will lift them three places high toppling Nzoia Sugar, Kariobangi Sharks and Sony Sugar while victory for Rangers will surpass seven teams including their match day rivals. Rangers will cruise past former champions Ulinzi Stars, Vihiga United, Sofapaka, AFC Leopards, Kakamega Homeboyz, Gor and Nzoia Sugar to sit sixth with nine points.