Kenyan Premier League side Kakamega Homeboyz are planning to initiate i talks with AFC Leopards with a view to solve the alleged double signing of their long-serving and dependable defender Moses Chikati. The player is now the bone of contention between the two clubs with Leopards claiming to have acquired his signature a month ago as a free agent after his contract with Homeboyz elapsed in December. However, Homeboyz have insisted that the player has a running contract with them. With double signing attracting a six month ban, Homeboyz have opted to engage Leopards who had earlier vowed to report Chikati to KPL and have him forfeit his Sh200 000 sign on fee to save him from being barred from active play. Homeboyz, through their team manager Bonface Imbenzi, said they are focused on how to improve the performance of the team which has been posting poor results. Imbenzi, however, blamed their Kenya Premier League counterparts AFC Leopards of rushing to finalise Chikati’s deal without consultation. “What I believe as the team manager is that the affected player was still having a running contract with us but whether he sneaked to Nairobi to sign another contract we don’t know. However, as a professional club, everyone understands and respects the law and follows the right procedures.” “It’s a regrettable action but it’s my humble plea that both parties sit together and solve the case in an amicable way that will help Chikati without threatening his football career as he is still a young player with a family that depends on him,” echoed Imbenzi. Meanwhile, Imbenzi has attributed the dwindling performance by his side on poor officiating in both their away and home matches and has called on the national body governing soccer to act swiftly and save the situation. Homeboyz begun the league superbly but since their 3-0 win over Leopards in their third match of the season, the club has struggled to register convincing results. He singled out their matches against Western Stima in Kisumu, Sony Sugar at Awendo and their last weekend duel against Posta Rangers which they lost 1-0 as examples of duels that were poorly manned by the officials. “It’s not only Homeboyz complaining but a majority of the teams in both Kenya Premier League and National Super League have raised complains and something needs to be done. As Homeboyz, we respect rule of law and we shall follow the right procedure to address the problem with right authorities,” Imbenzi added.