Kiambu Speaker Stephen Ndicho has proposed to have judges elected to office instead of being appointed in order to win war on graft. “I propose in the envisaged constitutional referendum to have provisions where the judges will be elected,” he said in a statement sent to newsrooms. He said Judiciary has been the weakest link in the war on graft and challenged the chief justice David Maraga to up his game. “The DPP and DCI are doing a great job of unearthing corruption cartels and prosecuting them, but when they take them to court, courts are handling them so casually, delaying them purposely to defeat justice,” Ndicho said. He says the current arrangement where judges are appointed has made them develop a don’t care attitude because they have security of tenure. This he says has endangered the government’s effort to fight corruption. Ndicho says the election of judges should be done every five years. Under the constitution judges are appointed to office and serve until the retirement age of 70. The speaker says that despite the efforts by DCI and DPP to fight corruption, the war may not be won if the judiciary is not strengthened. Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti last month said the Judiciary has slowed the graft war by granting low bail, injunctions and being swayed by technicalities. He said going easy on suspects emboldens them and makes prosecution difficult, Kinoti said in an exclusive interview with the Star. President Uhuru Kenyatta on Jamhuri Day cited “ridiculous” bond and bail terms. “If the President who is the chief executive of the country is elected after every five years, and MPs, governors, and MCAs are subjected to performance and evaluation after five years, why not judicial officers?” he asked. He said judicial officers must know and understand that they are part and parcel of the Kenyan society and if it decays, they are the ones to blame. Ndicho said low bail terms for corruption subjects and delaying of cases in courts for up to 30 years, have made Kenyans lose faith in the Judiciary. “Cells and prisons today belong to the poor who can’t afford expensive lawyers. Kenyans are an agitated lot because of our failed judicial system in so far as fighting corruption is concerned,” he said. Ndicho was quick to point out that he is not fighting the Judiciary but only expressing his opinion, views and disappointment at its ‘failure’ to deliver Justice. Deputy President William Ruto last year asked the judiciary to play a greater role in the fight against corruption if the vice has to be stopped. Ruto urged courts to stop issuing anticipatory bails to those suspected to have committed offences. “We want to ask courts to explain how criminals can go to court, ask not to be prosecuted and they (courts) agree,” Ruto said. “Those behind the NYS and NCPB scandals should be punished. We ask the judiciary to do its part,” Ruto said. He further asked the investigating agencies to do a thorough job so that the courts can take action on those involved.