14 Riverside office and leisure complex that was attacked on Tuesday afternoon by terrorists has officially been closed until further notice. DusitD2 Hotel, where the incident took place, is relocating guests and upcoming reservations to nearby hotels as police seal off the area for investigation. “We are providing support in every way we can. Efforts are ongoing to get in touch with all the staff members and guests who were at the hotel to ensure that they are all accounted for,” Dusit corporate communications executive Ravisada Angkeeros said. At least 40 companies situated at the office complex were caught up in the terror attack which took security forces about 18 hours to contain. The hotel is managed by Thailand-based Dusit International that is listed in the Bangkok bourse. Some of the multi-national firms hosted in the office complex include Reckitt Benckiser, Amadeus Global Travel Distribution Ltd, JHPiego Corporation, Colgate Palmolive (EA) Limited and Cellulant Kenya Limited. Others are Adam Smith International, LG Electronics Africa Logistics FZE, Quintessentially Lifestyle Services, and Mitsui & Co. Europe Plc. Local firms with offices in the complex include Brighter Monday, Redhouse Group, HIP Partners Kenya, Kenya Gatsby Trust Westlands Forex Bureau ExChange among others. Firms with an East African outlook based at the office block include SAP East Africa, Fanisi Capital, AC Nielsen Kenya Limited, Sandawoods Limited, Horizons Group Limited. Village Market, a mall situated along Limuru Road, had temporarily closed shop on Tuesday evening as a security precaution but resumed normal operations yesterday. Also caught up in the attack is I-DEV chief executive Jason Spindler, a key supporter of Kenya’s technology ecosystem, who died in the attack. I-DEV, a strategy and innovation firm works with corporations, social enterprises and impact investors to build business based partnerships. The closure, like it happened after the Westage attack, will likely affect business. Click here for the latest political news