When Crazy Rich Asians first came out in Nairobi, you have no idea how many times I watched it, dragging every Kenyan friend I could. Almost of them came out of it certainly entertained but with the same question — how real is Crazy Rich Asians? Sorry to disappoint, but I have never I dated a mystery man only to find out that his family is obscenely rich. However, that level of wealth is actually not uncommon across Asia, especially in big cities. I rent a moderate, but new-ish apartment in Jing’An, Shanghai, which would be the equivalent of Westlands. In the basement parking lot, there are numerous Maseratis, Ferarris, and even a Rolls Royce or two. The only time I’ve seen a Rolls Royce in Nairobi, it had Congolese diplomatic plates. The movie kind of explains that Nick’s family made their fortune in real estate, which is also not unrealistic. There wasa massive population explosion in the last four decades in Asia, and with the transition to become a manufacturing hub, there was an exodus into cities. As more people moved into cities, the rents became more expensive and people started building more and more skyscrapers. In cities such as Hong Kong, because of overcrowding, the apartments are getting smaller, leading to even horrifying ‘coffin homes’ in some cases. Nick’s wealth comes the family business, in which only trusted blood relatives are allowed within the inner circles. Nick’s generation are what we call fu er dai — literally translated as rich second generation. Fu er dai really vary, some are just as vapid and superficial as the movie portrays, wasting their parents’ money, yet there are more and more young people who are taking the reins of the family business, learning to invest from family offices, or spending time in world of philanthropy. In the same way that the wealthy circles across Africa are very close knit — from Cape Town to Kinshasa, from Nairobi to Lagos — so are the circles across Asia. Just like rich, bored people anywhere, they gossip! Because marriage is such a big deal in Chinese culture, information about who is dating whom is big news. There is a Chinese idiom, men dang dui hu, literally translated as two doors facing each other must be the same size, which means the families are well-matched in terms of social status. The entire theme of the movie is not the fact that Rachel is not good enough for Nick — it’s actually about the fact that Rachel’s family is not good enough for Nick’s family. This is also a common phenomenon across Africa. Even though the movie takes places in Singapore, the main characters are all ethnically Chinese and speak Mandarin throughout the movie. Being the biggest and oldest country in the region, the China’s sphere of influence extends very widely to the smaller countries of Southeast Asia, including Singapore, Thailand, and Malaysia. Most of the wealthy families that own a lot of business, from real estate to agriculture, come from Chinese roots. As China is the largest market in that region, is it almost impossible to avoid them in business, and it helps if you have family back there. As I mentioned before, tradition means a lot to Chinese families, and even though Nick’s family in the movie is very wealthy, they still care about simple, family-oriented things such as making dumplings together. There are always rituals that Chinese families insist on doing themselves, regardless of the many servants or zeros their bank accounts might have. How much of Crazy Rich Asians is real? Most of it, but how likely will your next Asian beau turn out to be a secret billionaire? Slim to none.   Instagram @curiouszoo