 Party rebellions
and realignments are taking the centre stage ahead of 2022. With this, political
temperature is rising barely 16 months after the August 8 General Election. Although
Tuesday’s terror attack at 14 Riverside Drive quelled down the political heat
and brought the political leadership together — noticeably ODM’s Raila Odinga
and Wiper’s Kalonzo Musyoka — infighting and rebellion in various parties are
soon likely to resume. Just like the
popular HBO TV Series Game of Thrones,
politicians are tactfully positioning themselves on different sides across the
political divide in their quest for power and lay claim to the “Iron Throne”
during the ‘winter’ of 2022. In the
process, they are going against their parties or/and leaders.  JUBILEE   — TANGATANGA VS KIELEWEKE The ruling
Jubilee Party, once a formidable outfit that started as an alliance and
dissolved parties to retain power in 2017 appears to be staggering towards its
deathbed, reminiscent of the biblical house that was built on sand. Despite party
leader President Uhuru Kenyatta and deputy party leader William Ruto showing
brave faces, it is no secret Jubilee is split down the middle and the crack is widening. On one side
is Team Tangatanga and on the other, Team Kieleweke. The former,
allied to DP Ruto is affiliated to the likes of MPs Kimani Ichung’wa (Kikuyu),
John Waluke (Sirisia), Kimani Ngunjiri (Bahati), Oscar Sudi (Kapseret), Sylvanus Osoro (South Mugirango), Ndindi
Nyoro (Kiharu) and Senator Samson Cherargei (Nandi).  They have
firmly coalesced around the DP, and they accompany him to Harambees and
political meetings. They have been accused of early campaigns, which informed
their name: Campaigning every weekend. Team
Kieleweke, which was coined by Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu, is seen as the
troop that has remained loyal to Uhuru, and is calling for a stop to 2022
politicking, and instead for elected leaders to focus on development and
deliver the Big Four agenda. Ngunjiri
started a storm in January last year when he posted on Facebook,” My vote in 2022 will go to a leader who
was committed to ensuring President Kenyatta's legacy is secured and one who
promotes national unity and guaranteed Kenyans the right to live anywhere in
the country.” Gatundu
South MP Moses Kuria responded saying, “I want to tell Wambugu that we [Mt
Kenya] are not being forced to elect Ruto as the next President. It is our will
since Ruto stood with President Kenyatta when everybody had abandoned him.” He spoke
in Kingongo, Nyeri County. Wambugu
has maintained 2022 politics are disrespectful to the President. And the
President has as well expressed himself on the matter. In October
last year during a clean up in at Uhuru market, Nairobi, the President said
politicians should desist from talking about 2022 and instead bring development
to Kenyans. "Jameni,
tunajua kila miaka tano, tuna uchaguzi... si tugonje jameni miaka tano ifike
ndio tuanze siasa ya uchaguzi huo mwingine?" he posed. (We know
that every five years we have elections, why don't we wait for 2022 so that we
start politics). He would
repeat this on November 1 in a harsh tone saying, “When the right time comes, I
will tell people that leaders who spent most of their time dwelling on baseless
talk should go home. They don’t deserve any leadership position. “That is
why I am saying to leaders, at the national and local level, to stop useless
politics and concentrate on nation-building,” the President said in Nyeri. The New Year
started on a higher momentum, after the then Jubilee vice chairman David
Murathe said Ruto — the apparent heir to Uhuru, or so it was thought — was not
fit to be President, and that he would push to stop him vying in 2022. The backlash
resulted in his resignation, which some analysts say marked the final blow to
the party. Murathe is
said to represent or speak for other silent but disgruntled leaders in the
party, who may be uneasy and opposed to a Ruto presidency. Wambugu,
former Kanu nominated Senator Paul Njoroge and ex-Kiambu governor William
Kabogo have gone on record telling the DP that he is not assured of Central
Kenya support in 2022. Former
Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth who lost the Nairobi Jubilee Party ticket also appears
to be against a Ruto Presidency. Like Kabogo,
Kenneth sees the DP as the mastermind behind his woes and his failed governor
bid in Nairobi. He recently led some politicians from Mt Kenya region to defend
the President from Kuria and Ngunjiri. The
disgruntled lot is faced with two options — to openly rebel and try to take control
of the party from Ruto or decamp altogether and forge alliances with other ‘like-minded’
leaders. Murathe said
he will work with ‘others’ to form a coalition that will form an inclusive
government in 2022. Last
Christmas, ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi hosted Murathe, Makueni Governor Kivutha
Kibwana, Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang’ula and CS Eugene Wamalwa at his Mululu
home. The invite
came just a month after Murathe hosted Mudavadi in his Gatanga home. The cordial
relations between the two and the eventual resignation of Murathe raised
eyebrows and questions on whether a Kikuyu-Luhya union was in the offing. Mudavadi has
already declared he will be on the ballot in 2022 and has fronted himself as the
face of the opposition after the handshake.  ANC However, the
ANC leader’s quest to the presidency will largely be determined by the ever-elusive
Luhya unity, which Cotu boss Francis Atwoli has desperately been rooting for. To achieve
this, Mudavadi has to win the support of Ford Kenya leader and Bungoma Senator
Moses Wetang’ula who has also declared his presidential ambition as well. And even
before he wins over Wetang’ula, he has to ensure his MPs — Godfrey Ototsi
(nominated) and Cleophas Malala (Senator, Kakamega) — are firmly behind him
after last year’s rebellion. Soon after
the handshake, the two first-time legislators attacked their party boss, Mudavadi, when
he failed to attend NASA leader Raila Odinga’s mock swearing-in at Uhuru Park. They also opposed
calls for Luhya community to rally behind Mudavadi and Wetang’ula ahead of 2022. And when
they were told to toe the line, Ototsi tweeted on April 29, “Someone tell
@MusaliaMudavadi & his lazy & clueless paid idlers that I &
@Cleophas_Malala are not intimidated by their ANC faction's latest veiled
threat 2 "expel" us & stiffle divergent views.Their malicious
& myopic plans via a fake NEC will miserably & embarrassingly crumble.”  FORD KENYA Wetang’ula,
as well, has his own internal problems within Ford-K whose members have been
calling for an injection of new blood in the once dominant party, which was a
headache to Kanu in the 90s. And although
the Bungoma Senator yielded to pressure last week and announced the party would
hold grassroots elections, his deputy party leader started another problem. The former
Kakamega Senator, Boni Khalwale, accused Wetang’ula of insincerity and
pretending during the day that he does not back Ruto’s presidential bid. This is
after Ford-K delegates met in Bungoma town and called for disciplinary action
against Khalwale for his dalliance with Ruto. They warned that they would not
allow members to support presidential aspirants from rival parties. “Asking
and consulting is not a weakness. We need to speak in one voice. Rushing to
support others is the highest degree of indiscipline,” Wetang’ula said.  WIPER In
the last few weeks, the man from Tseikuru is facing a juggernaut from the three
governors in Ukambani.  The 10th
and last Vice President, Kalonzo Musyoka has unselfishly played second fiddle
twice to Raila Odinga — 2013 and 2017 — as the running mate. Arguably,
2022 is likely to be his last shot at the presidency. However, governors Alfred
Mutua (Machakos), Charity Ngilu (Kitui) and Kivutha Kibwana (Makueni) this week
ganged up against him and formed the People’s Empowerment Movement. The
three accused Kalonzo of poor leadership and being behind the poor development
record in Ukambani, despite being high positions of power for many years.  ODM However,
the main man at the heart of Kenya’s politics and who is keeping his cards
close to the chest is AU Infrastructure envoy and ODM leader Raila Odinga. The
2022 arithmetic will largely depend on whether will go for the presidency for
the fifth time, or the candidate he will endorse. His
engineered handshake has left many guessing. His party is
however facing rebellion, especially in the Coast. Malindi MP
Aisha Jumwa and her Msambweni counterpart Suleiman Dori and 7 other MCAs have
rebelled and are on the verge of being expelled from the party. They have said
they will back Ruto in 2022. ODM chairman John
Mbadi in a letter to Jumwa accused her of uttering words “that are against the party values”. “I have a
contract with the people of Malindi of five years. I have a contract with ODM
for five years. When those years elapse, let no one ask me where I will go,”
Jumwa said. Watching these
political wrangles silently and from a distance is Kanu chairman Gideon Moi
whose name has always popped up whenever the 2022 succession is mentioned. Though he has
not openly declared his candidature, the Baringo Senator is seen as one of the
persons likely to have an impact in a post-Uhuru presidency. Gideon is
seen as a threat to Ruto’s dominance in the vote-rich Rift Valley region and
the relationship between the two is far from cordial. The scion to
former President Daniel Moi has lately warmed up to Raila and thrown his weight
behind the handshake deal, insisting the unity deal is a plus for Kenyans. Gideon last
year made several visits to Western, Central and Nyanza regions, a move seen as
marketing himself and endearing himself to the rest of the Kenyan electorate. In October
last year, a group of ODM MPs in Karachuonyo pledged support for a Raila-Gideon
partnership. Antony
Oluoch (Mathare), Ong’ondo Were (Kasipul), Lillian Gogo (Rangwe) and Gladys
Wanga (Homa Bay woman representative) said that Gideon would succeed in his
political ambitions if he teamed up with Raila. 