A firm in the financial markets, whose board members are highly connected, has panicked over what is seen by many as a shift in the country’s currency policy. The company has resorted to paying customers in cash. The firm is said to be giving out money in batches of Sh400,000 to clients whose claims have successfully been processed. Corridors of Power has learnt that the reason for the cash payments is the fact that the government could be planning to phase out the current notes in the coming years. The business, which pays clients usually by cheque of bank transfers, tell customers to take the cash in what is seen as a strategy to offload huge sums lest they are caught unaware. ***** Some MPs, despite having been on a lengthy two-month recess, have never gone to their constituencies. With Parliament’s canteen officially closed as MPs enjoy their holiday, some have been seen hovering in the corridors of Parliament or relaxing at the MPs lounge. It is not clear why they chose to wake up every morning, dress is sharp suits and then start loitering in Parliament when they know their constituents could be looking for them for all manner of problems. Are they trying to run away from responsibilities or is it just a case of a lean January . It can’t go without being mentioned that with MPs out of sessions, they are not enjoying hefty perks in allowances that they usually enjoy during committee sittings. Perhaps they could have ran broke especially those who don’t run multi-million shilling businesses to supplement their income. ***** A county assembly clerk who was suspended last year after he was charged with corruption has set tongues wagging. Despite the court barring him from setting foot in his office until the case is heard and determined, a mole has revealed that the officer still calls the shots at the institution. He frequents his office and gives orders to his juniors, including the officer who was appointed by the county assembly service board to perform his roles in an acting capacity. Last week, he sacked an accountant and read the riot act to junior officers who he claimed had been celebrating his departure. ***** That people hide to evade arrest is not anything new. What baffled residents of a county in Western is that a senior official hid in one of the region’s hospitals to escape arrest by EACC detectives. Sleuths are investigating the official over a string of scandals ranging from flawed procurement, unprocedural hiring of staff and soliciting kickbacks from contractors. The official boasts that he’s the county’s ‘Mr Fix It’, hence, nothing can happen to him. Those privy to his case say it will only be a matter of time before police zero in on the fellow. Click here for
the latest political news