A veterinary officer was charged on Friday with defiling and getting a 14-year-old girl pregnant. Solomon Cherutich, 58, allegedly committed the offence in Kapartai village of Aiyebo sublocation, Baringo North, between September 2 and 9, 2017. The girl was in Standard 7. She has yet to resume learning after she gave birth in May last year. Her father said she suffered mental anguish. “While she was pregnant, she would cry when we interrogated her to reveal the father of the child. It wasn’t until recently after giving birth that she named the culprit,” he told the press outside court. “I’m a farmer so I used to invite him [the accused] to my home to provide with Artificial Insemination services. I trusted him as an old man. Little did I know he was planning evil against my young daughter.” Cherutich pleaded not guilty before Kabarnet senior resident magistrate Nerolyne Idagwa and was granted Sh200,000 bond. The case will be mentioned on January 23 and heard on February 18. Cherutich was arrested on Thursday at his Tirimionin home after the girl’s parents informed the county children’s department. “I really care about educating my children so they would come and assist me during my old age, but I’m not happy when someone does something terrible like this to them,” the father said. Meanwhile, a Baringo family raised concerns over frequent postponement of a case in which their nine-year-old daughter was allegedly defiled by a 24-year-old man in June last year. Suspect Jonah Rotich was released on bond. The girl’s father said the court keeps delaying the hearing. The family threatened to withdraw the case if the court will not ensure swift justice for the child. They incur huge transport expenses, only for the case to be put off, the father said. “We’ve been in and out of court eight times for the past six months, yet nothing has been done to convict the suspect,” the girl’s brother said. In relation to the cases, Saimo-Kipsaraman MCA John Aengwo warned of an increase of sexual offences in his ward. The ward representative urged the authorities to take stern action against culprits. He also appealed to residents to be on the lookout to protect their girls. Click here for
the latest political news