After losing their first game of the season against Wazito last weekend, former giants Shabana will today hope to bounce back to winning ways when they tackle leaders Ushuru at Ruaraka grounds in a National Super League encounter today. The game against Ushuru and next Wednesday’s encounter against Eldoret Youth will give direction to Shabana’s season, according to assistant coach Andrew Kanuli. “We lost against Wazito last weekend but we want to bounce back against Ushuru. We know it will not be an easy game,” said Kanuli. Shabana dropped to fourth with 13 points while unbeaten Ushuru are top with 16 points. Second-placed Wazito host debutants Eldoret Youth at Camp Toyoyo looking to build on their win against Shabana. The game will be Live on Bamba Sport alongside the encounter involving Kibera Black Stars and Bidco. The former Kenyan Premier League outfit has been boosted by the signing of speedy winger, Victor Ndinya and left back Yusuf Muhammed. Ndinya, who can play on both flanks, has previously played for Bandari, Tusker and Nairobi Stima. He recently returned to the country after trials at MLS side LA Galaxy. “The determination to get back to KPL and the seriousness to actually strive for success was the main factor for signing,” he told the club’s official website. Yusuf has previously played for Muhoroni Youth and Sofapaka FC. “The motive for signing for Wazito is to try a new challenge and experience in the National Super League,” he said. The club lost Chris Owino to Talanta while Zedrick Imbosa joined Vihiga Bullets on a season-long loan. Team manager Bramwell Makotsi was happy with the signings. “We have signed 30 players, both young and experienced, who want excel and take the team back to KPL,” he told the club’s website. At Sony Green Stadium in Awendo, Migori Youth will seek their first win of the season against unbeaten Kisumu All Stars as Green Commandos host Nairobi Stima at Bukhungu Stadium. Winless Modern Coast Rangers and Nairobi City Stars clash at Mbaraki Sports.