The handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition chief Raila Odinga has fuelled talks of dynasties ganging up to consolidate power in 2022. The next presidential election is quietly shaping into a race between dynasties and hustlers. Both Uhuru and Raila want constitutional amendments to expand the executive so the president can be retained as an executive prime minister when his term ends. The arrangement is to have Raila become president with Baringo senator Gideon Moi as his deputy. Deputy President William Ruto has termed the talks as selfish and promised to take on those who “believe the sons and daughters of the poor can’t lead” the country. The DP has said he will only support a referendum if the agenda is centred on the interests of the masses. “We have no problem with the referendum. Our problem is hypocrisy and conmanship. To tell us the referendum was agreed during the handshake; you are lying to us,” Ruto said at a funds raiser in Tharaka Nithi on October 6, 2018. Read: Ruto says he'll support referendum to ease Kenyans burden The President gazetted a 14-member team under the Building Bridges Initiative to plan on how to end hostilities among Kenyans. The reforms proposed will push for a reorganisation of the Executive with calls for a referendum. The task force started collecting views from Kenyans in June. It is expected to submit its report to the President before June this year. Key sources within State House told the Star that Uhuru and Raila went slowly on the referendum after intelligence reports warned it might backfire. “I did not say the referendum is a must. I said if Kenyans want it, I support,” Raila told ODM supporters in Suna West during campaigns for Migori senator Ochillo Ayacko. The calls gained momentum last month after Uhuru suggested in Kisumu that a constitutional change is necessary to end the “winner-takes-all” system of government. “We said we must look at this issue of winner-takes-all. If that is why some people feel left out of government, we must ask ourselves, ‘Is is a good thing or not’?” Uhuru said during his first tour of Raila’s Nyanza backyard (since his re-election in 2017 ), previously considered an opposition bedrock. Senate speaker Kenneth Lusaka is among those considered to be Ruto’s close allies and has accompanied the DP on several tours of Western region to endorse his presidential bid. Other close allies from the region are MPs Benjamin Washiali (Mumias East), Fred Kapondi (Mt Elgon), John Waluke (Sirisia), Dan Wanyama (Webuye West) and Didimus Barasa (Kimilili). Read: Is Ruto now eyeing Prime Minister post? NOT IF BUT WHEN “Almost all the MPs in Jubilee outside Mount Kenya and Rift Valley are directly allied to Ruto,” a Jubilee MP from Mt Kenya region but who is close to Ruto told the Star. Speaking in Homa Bay where he presided over a funds raiser, Gideon Moi said the referendum was no longer a question of if but when. Ruto allies including Baringo North MP William Cheptumo are of the view the referendum is held during the election to save on costs. “The crisis confronting Kenya is not the 2010 Constitution. It is the national executive that has refused to be dismantled, restructured and reformed to accord with and respect devolved system of government,” International Conflict and Policy Centre executive director Ndung’u Wainaina said. Ndung’u said the Executive is already bloated and strengthened by those who want to hold on power longer. “It has captured, controlled and neutered other arms of the state, independent institutions and devouring devolution,” he said. Both Ruto and government critics believe that the failure to effectively implement the Constitution coupled with massive official corruption and mismanagement are at the heart of the problem. “It is not the Constitution 2010. Therefore calls for constitutional amendments are not informed by facts,” Wainaina said. Click here for the latest political news