As the year ends, there are several cases which stand out having been filed
in court which have caught the eye of the public and have been a trending topic
on all social media platforms. The recent ban of abortion at the Maries Stopes Clinics countrywide drew
mixed reactions on social media with some supporting the move and
the other half condemning the decision. A reproductive health organization then moved to court in a bid to lift the orders
issued by the board arguing that KMPDU and the KFCB undermine women's and
girls’ access to reproductive health services. The lobby group argued that the had a chilling effect on healthcare service
providers who are now in fear of providing these essential, life-saving
services for fear of harassment and prosecution. It was also their argument that it is the government’s obligation to put in place
policies and guidelines that address access to safe abortion services and
ensure the full implementation of those policies. “Women are dying from complications and
disabilities that arise from unsafe abortion, yet these deaths are easily
preventable. The government must show commitment towards addressing the issue
of unsafe abortion to reduce the high rates of maternal mortality.” They argued. The center is urging the High Court to protect women’s health and lives by
restoring safe abortion trainings.  It also wants the Ministry of Health
to introduce standards and guidelines that appropriately clarify when legal
abortion can be provided. According to research, unsafe abortion accounts for a quarter of maternal
deaths in Kenya and that’s the reason why the lobby group wants the court to
lift the orders. In the Kenyan law, abortion is only allowed if in the opinion of a medical
provider, a woman’s life or health is at risk, or in emergency situations. The Lobby group says that estimated 464,690 women got an abortion in
Kenya in 2012 and nearly 120,000 women were admitted to public health
facilities that year for severe complications resulting from unsafe abortions. The case is still pending in court and the court is expected to rule whether
Marie stops will resume operations or not. Meanwhile, in another related case, the same lobby group alongside FIDA
Kenya have also challenged the move by the Ministry of Health to withdraw
guidelines on safe abortion saying it’s a violation of their rights. A five judge bench comprising of Justices Aggrey Muchelule, Mumbi Ngugi,
George Odunga, Lydia Achode and John Mativo is expected to make a ruling on the
said move by the state and it will be a big win for the lobby groups if the guidelines
are reinstated by the court. This year also saw a huge win for the LGBT community in Kenya after the high
court lifted the ban of the Rafiki Film which had been blacklisted by KFCB and
banned from showing in the cinemas. Rafiki which is an acclaimed film portraying a lesbian romance and that it
the reason why the Kenya Film Classification Board banned it over its homosexual
theme. The film director moved to court in a bid to lift the ban so that she could screen
it in Kenya being one of the requirements for submitting it for the Oscars
Awards. Rafiki which has received accolades and condemnation in the same measure tells
the story of a romantic lesbian couple in the Kenyan set up which is not the
norm. In her application to court, Kahiu argued that the ban had made it
impossible for her to submit the film for review by the Oscars Selection
Committee Kenya for consideration in the Best Foreign Language Film category
award. Justice Wilfrida Okwany lifted the ban temporarily for seven days for adults
only so that Kahiu could qualify to submit to the Oscars. Even though they lost out at the nominations it was a big win for the gay
and lesbian community who argue that 10 years ago no judge could give such an
order. The case still pending before court and it remains to be seen what the court
will rule on whether the movie ban which is still in force will be lifted. The Gay couples in Kenya are also awaiting with baited breath for the courts
decision in their case where the director of National Gay and Lesbian Rights
Commission Eric Gitari is seeking to decriminalize Sections 162 and 165 of the
Penal Code. Sections 162 (a) and (c) says that any person who
has ‘carnal knowledge against the order of nature’ or permits a person to have
‘carnal knowledge against the order of nature’ against them has committed a
crime. The Gay community hopes the three judge bench comprising of Justices Roselyn
Aburili, Chacha Mwita and John Mativo will rule in their favour and repel the
section just as the Supreme Court of India did a few months ago in their landmark
ruling. Gitari argues that the sections are discriminatory and violate various
provisions of the Constitution. These include right to equality, freedom from
discrimination, human dignity, freedom and security of the person and right to
privacy. He argues that the law criminalizing relevant conduct such as unnatural and
grossly indecent are so degrading since its consensual sex among consenting
adults. The government on its part has maintained that they will not legalized homosexuality
and has asked the court to dismiss the case. They argue that declaring sections 162 and 165 of the penal code as
unconstitutional would tantamount to allowing unnatural offenses between people
of the same gender who may have a legitimate expectation to enter into a
marriage which is contrary of Article 45 of the constitution. According to the state, allowing unnatural acts on basis that it is done in
private will be tearing the social fabric of the Kenyan society further arguing
that the privacy is not an excuse to commit a crime. In the case, Christian and Muslims organization have also opposed the case by
the homosexuals urging the court to throw out the case. Murang’a Senator Irungu Kang’ata has also been enjoined in the matter and he
also strongly opposed the move claiming that culturally homosexuality was not
allowed and it’s against the norm. The ruling for the case is scheduled for this month. The case that trended for days was one where a man sued Beta Healthcare seeking
damages for a selling him a substandard condom that broke during intercourse. He said that when he bought the condom he believed it would please his
partner and fully protect him but it burst. He claims that as a result he ended up infecting his wife, who has since
left him, with a sexually transmitted infection. “That I was fully aware of the dangers of having unprotected sex and decided
to use my favorite brand of condoms, being the Zoom scented
chocolate-flavoured studded condoms, which I believed would please the woman
and protect me fully,” he said. The man claims that he was also informed by his friends that some of them
had experienced the condom breaks from the same brand of condoms. However, in a twist of events, the Beta Healthcare has claimed that he could
have worn the size and condoms since they come in many sizes. In their response to his case against them, the company says that condoms
come in sizes and every man, depending on how much endowed or less endowed,
ought to use the right size. "I am aware of the fact that if one puts on a condom that does not
match his size, there is a high chance of rupturing," the company said. They also said the man cannot be trusted since he cannot prove that he indeed
bought zoom condoms as he claims. The company wants the court to dismiss the man's case as it is a waste of
judicial time. In Beta’s view, the man cannot be believed because though he claims to be
married, he seems to have cheated on his wife with many women. "The petitioner is solely responsible for his misfortunes and he cannot
assert that Beta is responsible for his marital problems, mental distress,
alcoholism and the loss of his job," they told court. The case is still ongoing and the stressed man who claims to have
lost everything due to the condom burst is hopeful the court will given him
damages for what he went through.     