President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga on Saturday attended the burial of Bruce Odhiambo in Koru, Kisumu county. Uhuru landed at the Kisumu International Airport a few minutes past before he heading to Koru in a Kenya Air Force chopper.  President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga arrive at Bruce Odhiambo's funeral in Koru, Kisumu county on Saturday, January 19, 2019. /MAURICE ALAL Odhiambo, a former Youth Enterprise Development Fund Chairman, died last Tuesday at the Nairobi Hospital's ICU after a long battle with cardiac ailments. Read: Former Youth Fund Chairman Bruce Odhiambo dies at Nairobi Hospital Among those present at the funeral were Kisumu deputy governor Mathews Owili, Senator Fred Outa, Muhoroni MP Onyango Koyoo, Jubilee secretary general Raphael Tuju and Tourism PS Joe Okudo. Other were former Jubilee Vice chairman David Murathe and Chief Administrative Secretary in the Ministry of East Africa Community Ken Obura. The president eulogised Odhiambo as a talented musician who mentored many Kenyans to uplift their standards of living.  President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga among other mourners during Bruce Odhiambo's funeral in Koru, Kisumu county on Saturday, January 19, 2019. /MAURICE ALAL Uhuru said the late Odhiambo used his God-given talents, especially in music and entrepreneurship to develop businesses and institutions, some of which played a big role in mentoring the youth. “He was a go-getter. He was talented who joined hands with others to entertain Kenyans with the legendary Mombasa based Safari Sounds Band and Spartans,” Uhuru said. The President said despite his humble beginnings, Odhiambo never shied away from mentoring other Kenyans to utilise their talents to make ends meet.  President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga among other mourners during Bruce Odhiambo's funeral in Koru, Kisumu county on Saturday, January 19, 2019. /MAURICE ALAL Raila eulogised Odhiambo as a dedicated Kenyan and knowledgeable entrepreneur. “We pray to God to give his family and relative strength to overcome the loss,” he said. In 2018 October, Odhiambo went to India to replace his pacemaker that had been implanted under the skin to help manage irregular heartbeats. He returned to Kenya in November last year but his body developed more complications that led to his admission to hospital. Odhiambo resigned from the Youth Fund in March 2016 after being accused of allegedly misappropriating Sh180 million at the kitty. He was facing charges alongside the former Youth Fund CEO Catherine Namuye. During their trial in June 2017, the two lodged fresh protests over documents that were allegedly not supplied to the court to support their case. Their lawyers said certain documents that may boost their defence had not been supplied to them. They both denied charges and were granted a million bond with a surety of a similar amount or an alternative cash bail of Sh2 million. Namuye was later found dead in her Kileleshwa home on October 4, 2017 after she collapsed. Read also: Singers pay tribute to Bruce Odhiambo See more: Bruce Odhiambo’s last words before his death Click here for the latest political news