I recently watched the movie, A Walk in the Woods. It’s about a celebrated author in his 60s, Bill Bryson, played by Robert Redford in the movie, who finds himself with no plans to write anything new. So, at loose ends on what to do with his time, Bill decides he’ll hike the entire length of the Appalachian Trail, which is a 3,500km long hiking trail in Eastern US. His wife strongly opposes this idea but eventually she relents on one condition: Bill has to take a friend along with him. The only friend Bill has that doesn’t think the idea insane and wants to join him is Stephen Katz (played by Nike Nolte). He’s an old friend but they haven’t kept in touch for decades, so they’re not exactly the best of friends. That notwithstanding, the two old men set off on their trekking adventure. Anyway, there’s this part in the movie where Bill and Stephen, both out of breath, are walking up a slightly inclined rugged rock surface, and Bill is spewing all kinds of trivia about rock formations and tree species, to which Stephen wonders out loud, ‘How do you know all this?’ And Bill says: ‘Well, there are these things called books.’ ‘Books?’ says Stephen. Obviously the question is rhetorical. But Bill answers anyway. ‘Yeah,’ says Bill, ‘they’re like television for smart people.’ I chuckled at that for a whole month. There is some truth to Bill’s condescending tone. The scientific consensus on the positive effects of reading and the negative effects of watching television is overwhelming. The book is always better than the movie, as they say, for books help children develop and improve both brain function and overall health. One study in 2013 conducted at Tohoku University, Japan, examined the effects of television on the brains of 276 children. It found that the more hours of TV the kids watched, the lower their verbal reasoning ability became. In the same year, at Emory University in the US, a study was done on how reading a novel affected the brain in college students. This one found that after reading the novel Pompeii by Robert Harris, the students had increased connectivity in parts of their brain related to language. There was also increased activity in the sensory motor region of the brain, suggesting readers experienced similar sensations to the characters in the book. Research has also found that Alzheimer’s disease is 2.5 times less likely to appear in elderly people who read regularly, while TV was presented as a risk factor. And according to researchers at the University of Sussex, six minutes of reading can reduce stress levels by 68 per cent, beating out other relaxing activities like listening to music, drinking tea or coffee, and taking a walk. That’s books. They calm the nerves, increase language and reasoning, and they can even keep you mentally alert as you age. Reading a book is like going to a gym for the brain. Reading is thinking. Conversely, watching TV has the opposite effect; it shuts down activity in the brain. You can’t really blame TV, though. By design, it’s meant to be passive; you just sit there and take it. The irony in this article, I’ve just noticed, is I’m talking up reading being better than watching, but I got the idea to talk about books from watching a movie. Go figure.