Starring: Kevin Hart, Bryan Cranston, Nicole Kidman, Golshifteh Farahani Based on: ‘The Intouchables’ by Olivier Nakache and Eric Toledano Release date: January 11  It’s disconcerting how sensitive we have become as a society. First, we started the year by booing Kevin Hart off the Oscar stage, where he was set to host the academy awards in February.  And as soon as his new movie, ‘The Upside’, was released, the uproar went wild again. This time it wasn’t because Kevin Hart was the star but because of Bryan Cranston (or, as we know him, the dad in ‘Malcom in the Middle’). So, what was Bryan’s big mistake that had half the world up in arms? Acting. Yes, everybody, acting. People were furious that an able-bodied man was acting like a quadriplegic man. And just like how the R Kelly documentary spiked his music downloads, the Bryan Cranston drama took many of us to the big screens. Dell Scott is out of jail on parole, and he needs to find a job before the state can allow him to see his son. His parole officer, tired of his excuses as to why he can’t find a job, gives him one day to find a job, or else… Out of desperation, Dell walks into Phillip Lacasse’s house and asks him to sign his employment form. Philip is a wealthy quadriplegic looking for a full-time caregiver, but he isn’t interested in the professional candidates. He wants someone who can add some zing to his boring life. Someone like Dell. Philip hires Dell, to the displeasure of his business associate Yvonne. Dell and Philip have a weird but beneficial connection. They learn how to live again after their misfortunes. In each other, they find friendship, support and happiness. Since the film is based on a French version of a real-life story, the film’s plot stays true to the interpretation of the original. However, it’s pointless to have two major comedians in a film if it doesn’t include all their quirks and humour. Hart and Cranston have an incredible on-screen chemistry, which makes the film more fun to watch. It’s unfortunate that a great film had to be overshadowed by undeserved chaos and scrutiny.  Star rating: 4 stars