While Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji has said he is awaiting a ruling to determine the ownership of the controversial Ruaraka land in Nairobi, which is pending in the High Court, questions are abound as to why he has not preferred charges on the basis of how Treasury paid out Sh1.5 billion, money that had not been budgeted for. The monies were neither in the main annual budget nor were they provided in the supplementary budget, but Treasury mandarins went ahead to avail the money that was quickly distributed to multiple accounts within hours of Treasury making payment. Have the Nakuru-based Kericho auditors failed to audit some projects in the county? Some projects funded by taxpayers money, especially nursery schools, which have been under construction since 2015 have not been captured in the annual reports that are tabled in the National Assembly. Corridors have been told some of the buildings that were abandoned midway by contractors under unclear circumstances and are on the verge of collapse as they have been rained on over a long period of time. This might force the county under the leadership of Governor Paul Chepkwony to start from scratch. That Mt Kenya region will not return favour and vote Deputy President William Ruto for President in 2022 is a white lie, a tycoon from the region was on Sunday at a Coastal hotel heard telling a man from Nyanza, who is also at the Coast holidaying. The tycoon, who has interest in real estate and schools, among other businesses, went ahead to tell the second term MP “that those who think Mt Kenya will not vote for Ruto will be shocked when that time comes”. “Shida yenu ni kupiga siasa za Nairobi... tembeeni mashinani mpate habari kamili,” the man who is said to be heading a team of wealthy businessmen supporting Ruto told the legislator. Detectives from Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission are closing in on crucial information that may lead to arrest and prosecution of senior managers at the New Kenya Co-operative Creameries who are reported to have embezzled public resources. A source at KCC has whispered to Corridors those mentioned are now in panic and one is believed to have abandoned a multi-million projects he was undertaking in his village not only for fear of being discovered, but also because the coffers they were milking have run dry. The senior official is said to have started the project during the 2017 general election campaigns, and the money is suspected to have been proceeds to election related activities, which the institution had been asked to provide for the Jubilee government.