Former Gor Mahia utility Innocent Wafula has opened up on his controversial citizenship and his intention to ply his trade abroad this year after running out his contract with Gor last month/ Wafula lifted the lid on his next move after his contract with the 17-time Kenyan champions lapsed and expressed interest in signing a new deal from the numerous offers received from clubs within the East Africa region, the continent and Europe. Wafula joined K’ogalo in 2015 from Chemelil Sugar, where his dribbling skills and quality crosses lifted him to the starting team as a winger and was occasionally used as a makeshift right back whenever the defence was hit by injuries and in low octane matches. His leadership skills saw him earn him the responsibility to skipper Gor’s second string squad christened as Wakulima. The unit was largely used in the league matches last season as the senior and experienced players represented the club at the Caf Confederations Cup up to the group stages. Wafula confirmed that he had acquired his travelling documents as he seeks to complete a move outside the country—bringing to an end a debate on his bonafide citizenship initially rumoured to be of Ugandan. His inability to secure traveling documents denied him the chance to showcase his rare football talent in the continental tournaments with Gor Mahia and was snubbed by both Harambee Stars and Uganda Cranes, thanks to obscure citizenship. However, he confirmed to have obtained documents to enable him jet out of the country and further quashed hopes of extending his stay in the local league after reports emerged that Gor had launched negotiations to renew his contract. Earlier on, Gor were reported to be pursuing to renew Wafula’s contract but he denied being approached for talks. “I can confirm that I am a Kenyan and I have already secured my traveling documents in readiness for a move outside the country. I have already made my mind that I will not be playing in the Kenyan Premier League this year even if Gor renewed my contract or another club approached me with the intention of signing me. I am grateful to Gor for the years I have been with them and I wish them best of luck this year.” He added: “I have read that I am in negotiations with them but I can confirm no one has reached me to negotiate on a new contract. I feel a time has come for me to explore new challenges outside the country and I hope I will sign a new deal from the many offers which I have received. I have clubs from the region, the continent and Europe muscling for my signature and I hope after deliberations with my agent and family I will finally turn professional.”