Mavoko MP Patrick Makau has declared himself the Wiper party national chairman. Makau said he has taken over the position from Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana, whom he described as "disrespectful and disloyal to the party and leader Kalonzo Musyoka". “Kibwana should resign from Wiper for disrespecting its leader Kalonzo Musyoka. I am now the Wiper chairman awaiting the party’s affirmation and blessings,” he said. He spoke on Saturday after distributing CDF bursaries at Githunguri Jetview Primary School in Muthwani ward. The legislator said if picked as the chairman, he would "ensure Kalonzo becomes the fifth President of Kenya". “In 1963, Oginga Odinga was to be the President but he didn’t get it. Who new Moi could be the President in 1978? In 2002 Kibaki became President against people’s expectations; in 2013 Uhuru and Ruto won despite the ICC case,” Makau said. He made the statements a day after a group of Ukambani legislators, himself included, said Kibwana should quit the party, resign as governor and seek re-election on his Muungano Party ticket. The others were MPs Gideon Mulyungi (Mwingi Central), Musili Mawathe (Embakasi South), Joshua Mbithi (Masinga), Mulu Makali (Kitui Central), Patrick Makau (Mavoko) and Kitui Senator Enock Wambua. “We went through nominations, someone was issued direct nomination on the Wiper ticket then after winning the gubernatorial seat he starts insulting Kalonzo. We thought he was wise since he is old,” Makau said. The leaders in what they called the Mavoko declaration said the Ukambani political kingpin remains Kalonzo. They said it is Kalonzo whom they will all support as their presidential candidate in 2022 polls. Mbithi said none of the Ukambani governors can be president. “The governors want to be president and they do not have even three MCAs? You need to have at least 10 MCAs, 2 MPs, another governor and senator for you to start thinking of rallying for the presidency,” he said. Wambua said Kalonzo should be given the same respect in Ukambani as ODM's Raila Odinga gets in Nyanza, Deputy President William Ruto in Rift Valley and, Musalia Mudavadi in Western. Read: Mutua, Kibwana, Ngilu seek to unite Kambas ahead of 2022 Click here for the latest political news