Although Kenya has
suffered numerous terror attacks in the recent past, three stand out as having
attracted media attention the most. These are the 1998 bombing of the US
embassy, which left 230 people dead and 5,000 others injured; the Westgate
attack in 2013 that left 67 people dead and dozens others injured; and last week’s
DusitD2 Hotel in Westlands, which according to official figures, left 21 people
dead and several others injured. These attacks may have
drawn the attention of the media the most in part because they occurred in the
capital, Nairobi, which houses over 1,000 foreign journalists and
correspondents. The US embassy and the Westgate Mall attacks were a litmus test
of the Kenyan media’s coverage on terrorism. 
 Before 1998, terrorism had been
confined to the Middle East and some other countries outside sub-Saharan
Africa. In the two attacks, the
media was blamed for providing undue publicity for the terrorists. Media houses
were also criticised for publishing gory images and pictures of the dead and
the injured.  In some extreme instances,
journalists visited hospitals seeking interviews with the injured.  It was an extreme situation. Media, however, covered
the Dusit attack differently.  It has
taken years of learning and expedience to adjust to this new approach.  As I sat watching the events unfold at Dusit,
I feared the worst about the past; that for the umpteenth time, the local media
would fight for space with security personnel and rescuers for the best pictures
of the dead and the injured.  This didn’t
happen. It was a complex
balancing act for journalists, who had to blend professionalism, national
security concerns and interests, love for the country, and the quest from the public
to get the real story.    In such a situation, journalists have wittingly
or unwittingly, served as the spokespeople of the terrorists.  Professional factors should count. Terrorists enjoy
publicity.  Images of the dead, horrifying
pictures of the injured, coupled with public anger, fear and grief, glorify
terrorists.  They serve as a success
story. In her book, Terrorism, Betrayal & Resilience,
former US ambassador to Kenya Prudence Bushnell, observes that Osama Bin Laden,
the former leader of the Al Qaeda, had personally chosen the US embassy in
Nairobi as a target, in part, because it was headed by a female ambassador,
whose death would provide more media attention. Brian Jenks, an expert
in terrorism, wrote in 1975 that terror attacks are often carefully
choreographed to attract the attention of the electronic media and the
international press.  Taking and holding
of hostages increases the drama… Terrorism is aimed at the people watching, not
at the actual victims. “Terrorism is a theatre”. Thus, by denying the al
Shabaab the publicity they had anticipated from attacking the 14 Riverside
Drive office complex where Dusit is, the media had deprived the group one of
the most useful tools in public relations.  
Beyond this, the media had throughout the attacks urged Kenyans to stand
together against the terror group.   Repeat coverages of the Westgate and the
embassy bombings were to be avoided. The much-respected New York Times however, refused to pull
down photos of the dead from the Dusit attack. 
Edit Zach Montague argued that it was important to give their readers a
clear picture of the horror of an attack. 
For Montagne, the pictures were not sensationalised but they gave a real
sense of the situation.  He then gave
examples of the same approach the newspaper has had across the globe.  What the NYT editor did not mention is that
when al Qaeda attacked the US in 2001 (9/11, as they call it), their media
never showed any photos of the 2,977 victims,
or even the pictures of the 6,000 others who were injured in the attacks on New
York and Washington, DC. In the Nairobi attacks,
the New York Times was playing double
standards. But it was not only the
media power that incapacitated the al Qaeda/ al Shabaab in terms of publicity.  Kenyans across the globe stood together to
condemn the terrorist act.  Earlier, some
of the Kenyans on social media had asked the New York Times to pull down the gory images it had posted on its
sites.  For a moment during the attacks, political
talk ceased, overtaken by the talk about terrorism, national security and the
unity of the country. One elderly woman wanted
to know ‘why they hate us?’, meaning the terrorists.  I offered two answers.   I told her al Shabaab “hate” us because of
the presence of our soldiers in Somalia, who went there in October 2011 to stop
the terrorists’ incursions into our country. Two, because of the friendly relationships we
have had with some Western states. I hope she had an idea why these people
“hate” us.