Who is pocketing the extra Sh100 that city motorists are paying for parking? This is the question that many residents are asking following City Hall’s continued collection of Sh300 for daily parking despite the law reducing the fee to Sh200. The MCAs passed the County Finance Bill 2018 on December 4 before Governor Mike Sonko signed it into law two weeks later. The new law took effect on December 18. Most motorists in the CBD are unaware of the of law. Paul Maina said he opted to continue paying Sh300 after his vehicle was clamped despite paying Sh200. “They (parking attendants) told me that their system showed that I had balance, so I just decided to pay Sh300 because I don’t want to be inconvenienced,” he said. Yesterday, JamboPay – online payment company contracted to automate collection - said his firm has not been instructed to make the changes. “We cannot effect any change unless we are instructed by the client. If that happens, we make the changes immediately,” chief executive Danson Muchemi said. Finance and Budget committee chairman Robert Mbatia said the county is committing an illegality by collecting Sh300 instead of Sh200 as stated in law. “They are collecting the fees illegally. They are committing an illegality that as an oversight committee, we want to assure the residents will not continue,” Mbatia. Mbatia said that his panel will summon Finance executive Allan Igambi and other top county treasury officers to explain. “We will sanction them. I assure you that we will take an action before long,” he said. Finance executive Allan Igambi and director of parking Tom Tinega did not respond to phone calls and text messages seeking their comments on the matter. But two weeks ago, Tinega told the Star that it would take a while for lower fee to take effect because the county has to adjust its online systems to register Sh200. “There is a process so that we enter the changes into the system because we are not collecting manually,” he said. “I do not have any power over the ICT department to dictate the period they would take for the programming,” he said. But JamboPay boss said that it would only minutes for the system to be adjusted once the firm is instructed to make the changes. There are about 12,000 public parking slots in the capital. About 6,000 of them are reserved for government and private institutions. The county charges Sh200,000 annually for a reserved parking space The remaining 6,000 slots are for daily parking. City Hall rakes in between Sh1.5 and Sh2 million from the daily parking. But the collections, according to Auditor’s 2016-17b report on the financial statements of the county, is still below city Hall’s potential. The report stated that the county lost more than Sh300 million during the year because of weak enforcement. Click here for the latest political news