The Embu county assembly has ordered the sacking of two senior staff for abuse of office and exonerated two others of similar accusations. The MCAs unanimously resolved to fire Finance chief officer Ruth Ndirangu and her Youth and Sports counterpart Samuel Wachira on account of gross misconduct, incompetence and corruption. They let Grace Wanja (Health) and Jerevasio Mbogo (Education) off the hook. The two had also been censured by their departments. Assembly committees investigating the four chief officers said they confirmed the allegations levelled against Ndirangu and Wachira but could not prove those against Wanja and Mbogo. A report read by Evurore MCA Duncan Mbui said Ndirangu had been paying herself for supplying oxygen to the Embu Level 5 Hospital and other public hospitals. The oxygen plant at the Level 5 hospital had developed a problem and was not repaired. Ndirangu is said to have made Sh12 million annually for supplying the gas to the public hospitals, although there was no budget for the supplies. She did not advertise tenders for procurement. Mbui said the chief officer contributed to an accumulation of Sh1.3 billion pending bills for the county government by deliberately refusing to pay certain contractors. He further said Ndirangu asked the county Treasury to pay for infrastructure works not done and favoured her cronies by awarding them inflated contracts and then paid for shoddy work. She was also accused of illegally diverting Sh90 million set aside for specific projects to her preferred initiatives without the authority of the assembly. Wachira was fired for diverting Sh50 million meant for roofing and installation of seats at the Embu Moi Stadium. He used the money to beautify the Talent Academy without the approval by the assembly and before any tender was advertised. A committee chaired by Ruguru Ngandori MCA Harrison Muturi recommended his dismissal for purchasing substandard studio equipment worth Sh5 million for the Talent Academy and then refusing to surrender the password and card used to access the studio for inspection. When contacted for comment, Ndirangu denied their allegations saying that the move against her was sparked by a vendetta. She said MCA Mbui asked her to facilitate the payment for a contract carried out by a company he is associated with but she declined since there was no money. On the supply of the gas, she said she is not associated with the company that has been supplying the hospitals. She should not be accused over procurement yet there is a procurement department, she said. Ndirangu further said she had no power to divert funds from any project to another. She said the assembly made their decision against her despite a court order restraining them from doing so. Wachira said he was sacked for allegedlynot bribing the chairman of the committee, Harrison Muturi, who had earlier approached him offering protection. He said he even told the Speaker about the MCA’s threat. He said the ward rep also wanted a company he owns to be awarded contracts but he declined. Wachira said he has no power to divert funds as it is vested on the CEC. He denied preventing the ward reps from viewing the studio equipment which he said are of very high standard.