It seems Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko touched a live wire when he linked former Education executive member Janet Ouko to the loss of millions of shillings meant for bursaries. A mole has whispered to Corridors that the flamboyant governor is in panic after Ouko threatened to expose him in the media. He has been making frantic calls to his close allies, begging them to reach out to Ouko to stop her plans. "He called me because he fears Ouko is an activist and will embarrass him in public," Sonko’s close ally said. It will be interesting to know the information the former CEC holds that appears to have touched the nerve of the tough-talking governor. Only time will tell. ****** Still at City Hall, one of the most trusted CECs
last week collapsed in a colleagues office. The officers were talking about the
hell they were going through in Governor's Sonko's administration before the near tragedy. "He was telling me how he is frustrated by the governor.
The governor dresses him down even in the presence of his juniors ," a mole confided
to Corridors claiming the situation at City Hall is first deteriorating and
soon key officers will be left with no option but to follow Ouko’s path to save their credibility. ****** President Uhuru Kenyatta is said to be unhappy with a chief administrative secretary who hails from Mt Kenya region and who has become the talk in government and
political cycles. Reason? The CAS is said to be working hand in hand with a principal secretary in funding anti-Deputy President
William Ruto propaganda. The President is said to be upset with the dishonesty. It is believed Ruto pushed for her appointment. Kenyatta had preferred a different candidate for the position. The
CAS holds anti-Ruto night meetings and even sponsors attacks on
the DP. ****** Has a
senior Jubilee politician reconstituted the defunct presidential communication unit that was infamously
known to be behind the 36 bloggers at the core of the propaganda machine of Jubilee party in the run-up to the 2017
elections. Corridors has learnt that some of the members who
were thrown out of State House in the early days of President Uhuru Kenyatta second term have regrouped and now
re-branded, even roping in journalists from mainstream media and opening
multiple social media accounts they use to re-tweet and attack any
posting that seems to be against their preferred politician.
Surprisingly they have also recruited journalists who they use to plant
story ideas, especially through social media platforms. But are they working to
build the the embattled politician or to break him with reckless posting only time will tell? Click here for
the latest political news