As rapper Octopizzo denies involvement in the killing of a Strathmore student last week, his sister has baffled relatives with contradictory statements. Kenneth Abom, a 19-year-old ICT student, died on Saturday after an alleged altercation with the rapper in Nairobi's Woodley estate on Thursday. The rapper claims the boy broke into his house. Kenneth's big brother Antony told Word Is yesterday: "Octopizzo's sister is giving two contradicting stories. She is saying she let Kenneth in and in another statement, she says he knocked the door and pushed her in." An hour later, the brother said, Kenneth came back running and bleeding from the head. Neighbours claim they heard Octopizzo threaten the student's life, while wielding a panga, he said. "That is when he ran for his life and locked himself in the bathroom, and an hour later jumped off the 4th floor and sustained injuries," Antony said. "By the time he came back into the house, he was disoriented and even talking to himself. Octopizzo was again seen by neighbours carrying a panga and threatened to use it on Kenneth." The family of Kenneth is trying to find out if the two knew each other because they can no longer depend on Octopizzo's sister. Kenneth was taken to Kenyatta National Hospital and seemed to be recovering but succumbed on Saturday noon. On reaching out to Octopizzo, the brother said he seems not to be cooperating with them. "We can only get the right information from Kenneth, but unfortunately, he is dead. And from Octopizzo, but he is turning out to be arrogant and rude," Antony said. "On Saturday I went to the hospital and requested to get the explanation from Octopizzo but he did not want to do it freely. We have even reached out to his management but he is arrogant, saying that Ken stormed into his house." The family was waiting for the autopsy report yesterday to decide if they will institute a lawsuit against Octopizzo. Messages and numerous phone calls to Octopizzo went unanswered. However, he was quoted by a local daily denying he beat the boy.