Tension was high yesterday in Mau Narok after two people were attacked and injured for the second night in a row. The attacks took place between Gichemba and the controversial Muthera farm. The assailants took away two cows. I retaliation, two sheep were stolen, one of them slaughtered as a warning. The cattle rustling sparked protests as residents lit fires, barricading the Njoro-Mau Narok road on Tuesday night. Police fired in the air to disperse protesters. Area MCA Jackson Gathua said the attack happened when the two victims were returning to their homes from Muthera farm. He called on area residents to remain calm even as he urged security agencies to investigate and prosecute those involved. Those injured were taken to Nakuru Level 5 Hospital, like the other two victims who had been attacked on Monday night in the same area. The facility’s medical superintendent Joseph Mburu said three of the injured were discharged and the remaining man was in stable condition. Security chiefs held a closed meeting on restoring calm at Tipis trading centre on Tuesday. Mau Narok residents complained of police laxity and said the meeting failed to address key issues. In response, Njoro deputy county commissioner Kennedy Lunalo defended the officers, saying they were doing their best despite inadequate facilities. Lunalo said the vast area has a shortage of police officers and vehicles for patrols. But he said he is working with his Narok North counterpart to ensure security is strengthened. “We agreed to work with Maasai elders to help trace the perpetrators,” Lunalo said. Njoro MP Charity Kathambi, who attended the meeting, urged the residents to be calm and urged police to swiftly arrest the culprits. The attacks come two weeks after a man was killed in Likia while tracking stolen sheep. Tempers flared after the killing as MP Kathambi accused her predecessor of inciting the community. The Maasai Council of Elders condemned an attack at Mau Narok. “These incidences do not conform to the traditions of the community,” chairman Kasaine ole Lesho said. The residents have said rampant crime may trigger ethnic tensions between the communities. In the past, land conflicts at the expansive Muthera farm have turned bloody. The farm belongs to Mbiyu Koinange family . However, members of the Maasai community claim that it is their ancestral land that was grabbed.