More than 6,000 delegates are expected to attend this year’s Devolution Conference in Kirinyaga from March 4 to 8.
Council of Governors vice chairman Mwangi Wairia said the event at Kirinyaga University will build on last year’s conference in Kakamega.
“We expect the delegates to network and exploit opportunities that can positively change the lives of our people,” Wairia said.
He spoke on Monday at CoG headquarters in Nairobi at a resource mobilisation subcommittee for the 6th annual Devolution Conference.
The committee had met potential partners. “The conference will allow the government and stakeholders to discuss their achievements in devolution and the Big Four agenda,” Wairia said.
He said conference structures and objectives are aligned to the Big Four.
“It offers immense opportunity for collaboration between the two levels of government,” the Murang’a governor said.
This year’s theme is ‘Deliver, Transform and Measure.’
President Uhuru Kenyatta will open the conference with Opposition chief Raila Odinga and Deputy President William Ruto also on the speakers list. Raila will speak on the second day while Ruto will addressthe closing ceremonies.
The first devolution conference was in 2014 in Kwale with subsequent events in Kisumu, Meru and  Nakuru. “The conference has been held in all regions except Central and Northeastern. That is why governors agreed to have to it in Kirinyaga this year,” a planning source told the Star.
Wairia said the event will bring development partners and the private sector to explore investment opportunities.
“We expect 6,000 delegates who will network and contribute to development,” CoG chairman Wycliffe Oparanya said.
He a said the conference will audit transformation agendas in the counties and progress made so far.
“We’ll also discuss enhancing the blue economy as counties look for ways to harness their resources to stimulate grassroots development,” Wairia said.
The conference will not be a talking shop but an event about measurable and tangible results of projects g in the counties, he said.
Kirinyaga governor Anne Waiguru said they were doing everything possible to successfully host the conference. “We’re working with our hospitality industry to provide above standard accommodation to the guests,” Waiguru said.
She spoke at Gitwe Primary School where she donated 700 pairs of shoes to students. ‘’Our guests will enjoy their time here because Kirinyaga is a well-known tourist destination,” Waiguru said.