The quick response by security forces to the terrorist attack on Dusit Hotel in Nairobi was one of the rare occasions that induced patriotic pride amongst many Kenyan citizens. However, revelations a day later that some of the terrorists were Kenyan members of al Shabaab were a reality check and an embarrassment. Many questions have been asked. Why are Kenyans from predominantly Christian communities converting to Islam? Why is al Shabaab more compelling than loyalty to one’s country? How is it that al Shabaab commanders in Somalia are able to inspire Kenyan youth to massacre their compatriots? Are the state and its institutions capable of confronting this Kenyan face of international terrorism? What is the essence of Kenyan patriotism? These point to the magnitude of the challenge facing Kenya’s free society. Reports indicate that the lead terrorist was radicalised and recruited by al Shabaab in Isiolo. For a while, Isiolo has been the hotbed of radicalisation and terrorism and recruitment of youth, including secondary school students. In retrospect, it appears that the response of the state and its institutions has been inadequate Tomorrow the Supreme Court will rule on an appeal by the Methodist Church against the celebrated Court of Appeal decision that allowed a petition by Mohamed Fugisha, a radical Islamic activist in Isiolo, permitting Muslim girls to wear the hijab in school. In the judgment, Fugisha was depicted as a dedicated rights activist in the mould of Timothy Njoya, Davinder Lamba or Wafula Buke, despite the fact that he incited and led a violent protest in mid-2014 to defy the school uniform rules that had been in force for more than seven years and allow all Muslim girls to wear the hijab. Whilst this deceptively innocuous clamour for the hijab was going on, intelligence agencies were reporting increasing recruitment of Muslim youth in Isiolo by al Shabaab and their entry into Somalia. From media reports, Ali Salim Gichunge was getting radicalised in Isiolo at the same time. This could be a coincidence and I cannot begrudge the discretion of the Supreme Court to uphold the activism of Fugisha for Muslim students to wear the hijab in a Church-sponsored school. The important point I seek to demonstrate is the necessary linkage between conservative variants of Islam and their adherents’ affinity for radicalisation. Virtually all the 19 terrorists responsible for the 9-11 attacks were from conservative Saudi Arabia. Until America invaded Iraq in the aftermath of 9-11, the people of Iraq were moderate Muslims without credible ties or affiliation to terrorist organisations. The point here is that in confronting the ogre of terrorism, it matters what brand of Islam is practised in a country. An effective state should take more than a casual interest in what transpires in mosques because experience has shown they are the main venues for radicalisation and recruitment by radicals. In Kenya it might well be necessary for the State to question the mushrooming of mosques across the country, even in village townships without resident Muslim populations. To its credit, the government is aware of the dangers posed by radicalisation, which informed the Prevention of Terrorism Act, 2012. This law is, however, not severe enough. Its enforcement through the courts has been dismal. Two examples should suffice. First, in a country where suspected robbers on a mission to rob M-Pesa kiosks are routinely executed by the police, under the Prevention of Terrorism Act, the most severe punishment for a convicted terrorist who has murdered people is imprisonment for life. Secondly, in all decisions in terrorism cases judicial officers proceed from the premise that the Bill of Rights under our Constitution gives the same or equal protection to ordinary criminals and terror suspects. To be sure, we should be proud that Kenya is a free society and the Bill of Rights is the major shield for this freedom. However, it should help to realise that unlike other criminals a terrorist does not use violence to advance personal interests but to destroy our free society and serve as our enemies’ agent. It is therefore ironical to suppose that a Constitution enacted to defend and promote a free society is being deployed to shield terrorists on a mission to destroy that freedom. At the very minimum, to avoid terrorists mocking us for our naiveté, two things should be done immediately. First, Kenyans who join al Shabaab should be stripped of their citizenship. Secondly, convicted terrorists should face capital punishment and be executed within 14 days after the last appeal. That is the least that Saudi Arabia and Egypt reserve for terrorists. Constitutional lawyer kibemungai@yahoo.com   