Mathare United continued with their fine run in the Kenya Premier League following a 2-1 win against returnees KCB at Moi Stadium Kasarani. The win saw them stretch their tally to 13 points and at the same time safeguarded their unbeaten run. Red-hot Cliff Nyakeya broke the deadlock from the spot in the second half before Clifford Alwanga doubled the scores minutes later. Chrispinus Onyango scored KCB’s consolation. Defending champions Gor Mahia returned to their winning ways following their 2-0 win over Chemelil Sugar at Machakos Stadium. Goals by Nicholas Kipkirui and Boniface Omondi in the 46th and 52nd minutes respectively were enough to hand K’ogalo their second win of the season. Tusker opened the new year with a 2-0 win over Vihiga United at Ruaraka Stadium in the fifth round of matches. Coach Robert Matano lauded budding striker Sydney Ochieng’s performance as his first half brace is all they needed to carry the day. Ochieng found the back of the net in the 15th and 20th minutes respectively to inspire Tusker to their third win of the season besides stretching his tally to three goals with Matano attributing the feat to his ability to play to instructions. Meanwhile Mt. Kenya United earned their first point of the season after frustrating pre-match favourites Kariobangi Sharks to a one-all draw at Machakos Stadium. Mt. Kenya had lost all their opening four fixtures and had all the reasons to smile yesterday after holding the on-form Sharks. Sammy Ndung’u gave Mt. Kenya the lead in the 18 thminute but his goal lasted a few seconds as Sydney Simale restored parity for Sharks in the 19th minute. Sofapaka rallied from a goal down to settle for a one-all draw against Western Stima at Moi Stadium Kisumu. Calvin Odongo gave the power men the lead minutes after the break before Elly Asieche responded for Batoto Ba Mungu. Sony Sugar humbled Kakamega Homeboyz 2-1 at Awendo courtesy of goals from the evergreen Enock Agwanda and an own goal from Moses Chikati which rendered Peter Thiongo’s goal null and void. Bandari played Zoo Kericho to a barren draw at Kericho Green Stadium while Ulinzi Stars fell 2-0 to Nzoia Sugar at Sudi Stadium.