The initial
postponement of the roll-out of the new 2-9-3-3 curriculum to 2020 had been
occasioned by lack of funds, poorly trained teachers and failure by the
government to anchor the process in law. Education CS
amplified it when, talking about it, said, ”Its design is fantastic but the
devil is in the detail of implementation….” The change of
policy to implement it starting this month caught many as a surprise, with many
seeing it more of a political decision than professional. Any wonder that Knut
has used this decision in their pressure to threaten to go on strike. Some of
the hurdles, in my view, that must be overcome to realise the benefits of the
new system are, one, expansion of school facilities. The system
appears to imply that all primary schools will have to expand to cater for
the learning up to Grade 9. If this is the case, then why has the Ministry of
Education not clearly stated it to prepare the concerned players for this
eventuality? To ensure schools carry out the art and sports science curriculum,
it will be necessary to have the appropriate infrastructure in place, such as
sound recording systems, swimming pools and the fields to cater for all types
of games. Second is the quality of teachers. True, the
government is conducting in-service training of the new curriculum for
teachers. This must be up scaled. Maybe the training of teachers to handle the
new curriculum has started in TTCs. However, even if new grandaunts come out,
the first lot will have to wait for over 10 years before being employed since
natural justice demands that TSC first employs those who have been waiting for
over 10 years to be absorbed. My advice is
that government introduces what I would call “home-based in service training”
for teachers waiting to be absorbed by TSC. These short trainings could be
based in the counties, where those waiting to be absorbed would be invited
regularly to attend and get updated on the new curriculum. In effect, when there
are vacancies, they would be absorbed without fear that they may derail the new
curriculum. One fundamental problem that must be acknowledged is that many
schools are currently understaffed, despite having many teachers waiting to be
employed. Will this issue be resolved before rolling out the new system? The third major
hurdle is availability of books. From the framework for the implementation of
the curriculum, it is clear that new books must be published, and the current
one deemed obsolete. Recently, we were told of difficulty in publishing Standard
Four 4 materials for 2019 learners. How then will the government print the
following books on indigenous languages (are the manuscripts available?),
Hygiene and Nutrition, Creative arts, Home Science, Agriculture, Sports and
Physical Education, Integrated Science, Social Sciences, Health Education,
Pre-Technical Education, Pre-Career Education and foreign languages (Arabic,
French, German, and Mandarin Chinese), to mention a few? The fourth challenge lies in
examinations. The Framework stipulates that Knec examination will be done at
the end of Grade 9. Interestingly, it states that this will constitute 30 per
cent of the marks, leaving the 70 per cent to come from course work under teachers’
supervision. It is not clear how the government will ensure the objectivity of
the course work marks given our common habit of cheating in national
examinations. Will each of those who sat for the examination receive a certificate
from Knec and another from the school? The framework
does not state if there will be another examination at the end of Grade 12. If
there will be such an examination, what will be its name, and will it be the
same for the learners in the three pathways — Art and Sport Science, Social
Sciences and STEM? If there will be no such examination, what will determine
the formal completion of Basic Education, or guide entry into tertiary
institutions? The other problem is in admission into
senior secondary schools. The
examination at the end of Grade 9 is intended to facilitate admission into
senior secondary school to undertake studies in any of the three pathways: Art
and sport Science, Social Sciences and STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering
and Mathematics). Who has the last word in who is admitted to which senior secondary
school — the parent or the government? There is also an issue with
categorisation of these senior secondary schools. It will be
helpful if their criterion of categorisation is in respect to which ones offer
the three pathways. Moreover, it appears that all schools will be the same
meaning there will be no more national, extra-county, county and sub-county
secondary schools. Is that the case? These issues,
among others, should be tackled by the players, whom the Cabinet Secretary has already
promised to bring on board. My view is that despite the amount of money so far
spent in the piloting of this new system, the huge amount required to bring it
to realisation, if at all, out way the benefits. In this regard, I am of the
opinion that we shelf the idea altogether and start the process of improving
the 8-4-4 system. A saying goes, “Do not hold the leopard by the tail, but
having held, don’t let go”. 