Back in the day when
an all-powerful centralised government controlled everything here, trying to
get the average Kenyan to read a few lines on the financial management of their
country was a fool’s errand. The mere words ‘fiscal
policy’ would be enough to make a reader turn the page. However, these days there seems to be a passionate interest in such
matters, thanks largely to devolution and the creation of county governments. And along with this we
have seen increasingly strident demands that the locals must be consulted on
all and any matters relating to the expenditure in their county. However while this new
interest in economics is a welcome development, there are limits to how
enlightened the debates on county expenditures will be. Economics is, after
all, a data-driven social science with its own objective modalities and frames
of reference. Whereas politics is largely subjective. So while each of us is
entitled to personal opinions on who is a good governor or senator — or, for
that matter, president — when it comes to economic priorities, we actually have
to study the matters before us if we are to come to any useful conclusion. Perhaps the best
illustration of this, is in the frequent complaint that the county governments
use most of their budget to pay salaries — which is a “recurrent” expense — and
so do not have enough money left to devote to “development projects”. Those who make this
argument always end with the conclusion that it is this “skewed” expenditure
pattern that leads to the county in question “being denied development”. But we only need look
back to the 1990s and the early days of the Constituency Development Fund, to
see how profoundly mistaken this view is. Back then, the
creation of the CDF fund was considered a major breakthrough in our politics.
The idea was that it would end the deeply entrenched “politics of patronage”,
which had for years been practiced — with immense skill — by our president of
the time, Daniel Moi. With the coming of the
CDF, it was taken for granted that MPs who previously had to kneel before Moi
to beg for “development” – be it a road; or a school, or a clinic – would
thenceforth have the resources to attend to these things themselves. And the
CDF was structured to facilitate development projects only – it did not provide
for recurrent expenses. Further, even back
then, we had MPs enlightened enough to engage in what is now popularly known as
“public participation”: they went round their constituencies and asked their
people to propose what should be done for them as a matter of greatest urgency. Regular readers of
this column will probably have already figured out where I am going with this:
for there is a relevant example here which I have used before, and which
perfectly crystallizes the folly of this blind belief in the wisdom of crowds;
this shallow conviction that when the public is consulted, then all will go
well. As I have noted
before, what most such MPs were asked to do – given that Kenya is a
disease-endemic nation – was to build clinics. And subsequently, so many
clinics were built all around the country, that there was simply no way the
government could supply them all with drugs and medical staff. So we ended up
with about a thousand “empty shell” clinics nationally, some of which
eventually had to be converted to other uses. And in Central Kenya,
then greatly plagued by the deadly menace of the Mungiki sect, new police posts
were prioritized in many places, and built through the CDF (complete with
residential units for the keenly anticipated police officers). But there was
simply no way the government could send enough policemen to occupy all these
new posts, and so building them did little to stop the crime wave in Central
Kenya. My point then, is that
this “public participation” fetish is pure folly. And so before we rush to
judge governors who are accused of “spending all our money on paying staff
salaries” we should consider who exactly these staff are, and whether or not
they are needed.  