A false narrative has been carefully
crafted that Martin Fayulu should have won the presidential elections in the DRC because he was the leading
candidate in the opinion polls. And that Felix Tshisekedi is the surprise
winner because he was not expected to win based on the same polls. This narrative is outright dishonest. The
truth is the precise opposite of the narrative being peddled to the public. So, let’s examine the facts. Until December 29, 2018, just one day
before the DRC presidential election, Fayulu had never been above eight per
cent in any opinion poll over the last two years in the DRC. And he represents
a political party, the Engagement for Citizenship and Development, which only has
one representative in the legislature: Fayulu himself. His party has no
political infrastructure in the DRC. On December 29, just one day before the
election, an opinion poll appeared that catapulted him from eight per cent to
47 per cent. That is the only opinion poll that ever put him above eight per
cent. It’s the “miracle” opinion poll! Until December 29, Tshisekedi had consistently
led in every opinion poll through out the year. In addition, he is the leader
of the largest opposition party, the Union for Democracy and Social Progress (UDPS),
which has vast political infrastructure across the country. Tshisekedi’s father, the late Etienne
Tshisekedi, was the doyen of opposition politics in the DRC, opposing every
dictator that ever ruled Congo. When he suddenly passed away in Belgium two
years ago, where he had gone for a brief medical check up, President Joseph
Kabila refused to allow his remains to be returned to Congo. To this day, the
remains of Congo’s most beloved opposition leader remains in a morgue in
Belgium. While growing up, the younger Tshisekedi
lived in an enforced internal exile in Congo during the reign of Mobutu Sese
Seko. It was a very difficult time for the Tshisekedi family. Through it all,
however, they never compromised their political principles or their dogged
commitment to democracy in Congo. In fact, the young Tshisekedi is one of only
a handful of the major political figures in the DRC who has never worked with Kabila.
And no one has ever publicly questioned his integrity or his commitment to
democracy and fair play.  The President-elect’s sin, at least in the
eyes of his political detractors, lies in his consistent and public refusal to
boycott the election. He said it would be a grave mistake to boycott having fought
so hard and having waited for so long to have it. To him, the election would
mark the moment of liberation for Congo. On this, he and Fayulu stood on opposite
sides. Fayulu campaigned vigorously that the election must be boycotted, if
voting machines were used. He called them “the cheating machines.” Tshisekedi and his party, the UDPS,
transparently maintained they would participate in the election with or without
the voting machines. At a key opposition meeting in Geneva in
November 2018, where opposition leaders gathered to choose a sole opposition candidate, Tshisekedi
was the prohibitive favourite. Everyone around the world expected him to emerge
as the sole opposition leader. At that time, Fayulu was not known internationally
or domestically outside Kinshasa, where he was a well-known political activist. To everyone’s great surprise, Fayulu was
selected in Geneva over Tshisekedi. When the news broke in the DRC, there were
spontaneous riots across the country. Even though Tshisekedi had graciously
accepted his colleagues’ surprise verdict in Geneva, his political base in
Congo revolted and demanded that he withdraws from the Geneva Accord. Tshisekedi
withdrew from the Geneva Accord and on November 23, formed a political alliance
in Nairobi, (the “Nairobi Accord”) with Vital Kamerhe, the second most popular
opposition presidential candidate and leader of the Union for the Congolese nation.
When the joint team of Tshisekedi and Kamerhe returned to Kinshasa on December
15 to launch their campaign, they were welcomed by over a million people – a
scene replayed across the country throughout the presidential campaign. One
ecstatic scene after another. But in Geneva on November 10,the issue was
the question of the voting machines. Had Tshisekedi agreed to boycott if the
voting machines were used, he would have emerged in Geneva as the sole
opposition leader. But he refused on principle to make such a compromise,
knowing full well that he would have to dishonour it or be forced to boycott
the elections. Fayulu, on the other hand, took a purist
position against “the cheating machines.” He would later participate in the
election, despite the machines being used. The Geneva Accord marked the rise of
Fayulu as a major Congolese opposition figure. It also marked the rise of a
very strange media narrative that has persisted: That Fayulu, and not  Tshisekedi, was the popular opposition leader
in the DRC, hence the recurring and the carefully orchestrated reference to the
“surprised” victory. It’s difficult to determine where fiction
ends and where reality begins. It’s not dissimilar to the narrative about “the
cheating machines”— a narrative that was so dissembled that it was difficult to
differentiate facts from fictions.  Special Envoy of Felix Tshisekedi, the  President-elect of the Democratic Republic of Congo  