Bungoma politicians have threatened to lead protests against President Uhuru Kenyatta over delays to pay cane farmers their dues. They criticised the President for giving ‘empty promises’. During last year’s Jamhuri Day celebrations in Bukhungu Stadium, Kakamega, Uhuru ordered the release of Sh2.6 billion to clear the debts. The money is yet to reach farmers. On Saturday, Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula said it was “shocking beyond human understanding” to lie to more than six million farmers who toiled to ensure Kenyans access sugar from nearby shops. He demanded the national government hand over Nzoia Sugar Company to the county, otherwise, he will lead other leaders and residents to Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri’s offices. The county is in a better position to run the facility prudently and efficiently, the Ford Kenya leader said. Also present were Bungoma Governor Wycliffe Wangamati, Kanduyi MP Wafula Wamunyinyi and his Kimilili counterpart Didmus Barasa. Wangamati said they agreed in Kisumu with sugar sector players that the debt must be cleared urgently to prevent the crisis from spiralling out of control. They met the task force appointed to study the sector crisis. It is co-chaired by Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya and CS Kiunjuri. The team was formed on Uhuru’s orders on Jamhuri Day. Wangamati said they will not back off from advocating farmers’ interests. “We unanimously agreed that we’ll not have any talks with the state regarding the sugarcane sector until farmers are paid,” he said. Wamunyinyi said cane farmers lead miserable lives. “We don’t want our famers to be lied to by the President anymore. We will now lead them in protests against Uhuru if he continues to harass our people who can’t meet their basic needs or take children to school for lack of fees.” Wetang’ula said the county will find a strategic investor to run the factory.  “We will not let this factory go down, as we Bungoma leaders watch. History will judge as harshly.” He said some leaders from Nairobi are salivating for the factory’s 12,450 acres. The lawmaker did not identify them. Wetang’ula also warned against exploiting maize farmers. “Maize farmers in Tongaren, Bungoma, are going through the same predicament, as maize prices have drastically gone down. Even the price that Uhuru directed, Sh2,500 per bag, is not there. It has gone down to 1,400 per bag,” he said. Wetang’ula accused unscrupulous traders from Central of exploiting farmers. He also expressed concern that the planting season is approaching, but the government has yet to import subsidised fertiliser. The leaders spoke at the  burial of boda boda rider Joshua Wanyonyi in Ndengelwa, Kanduyi. Wanyonyi was shot dead by thugs last week. The assailants had raided a store in Bungoma town and made away with unknown amount of cash. Wanyonyi and other riders tried to pursue them. The robbers fired back, killing Wanyonyi and injuring five others.