Gor Mahia opponents in the first round of CAF Confederation Cup, Zamalek of Egypt arrive in the country today ahead of Sunday’s Round One of Group ‘D’ match. The Egyptians are expected to touch down at 3:30am ahead of the crunch tie against the Kenyan side at Moi Stadium, Kasarani. Zamelek will have the first training session at Utalii grounds at 4pm then have a feel of Moi Stadium, Kasarani surface tomorrow at 4pm. Confederation of African Football (CAF) have appointed Celso Armindo Alvacao from Mozambique as the center referee for the clash and will be assisted by his compatriots Arsenio Chadreque (first assistant referee), Zacarias Horacio Baloi (second assistant referee) and Zefanias Chijamela (fourth official). Mamoun Bushara Nasir (Sudan) has been appointed Match Commissioner while Helly Zafinimanga (Madagascar) will be the general coordinator. At the same time, Gor treasurer Sally Bolo has issued an unreserved apology to all those affected by the skirmishes that arose during their match with KCB in a bid to win favour with the football authorities in the country. “To our beloved fans and supporters of football in the country, Gor Mahia are extremely saddened by the unfortunate incident that happened in Machakos on Sunday against KCB,” he said. “We hereby urge all our fans to embrace peace and dialogue regardless of any perceived bias on the pitch rather than engage in acts that only taint and mar the positive image of the club.” “As a club, we also urge Football Kenya Federation and KPL to take the necessary steps in improving officiating during football matches, to end and stamp out this impunity in Kenyan football once and for all.” “Gor Mahia as a club continues to be committed in assisting authorities in rooting out any acts of hooliganism and apprehending any wrong doers. We thank Machakos County for hosting the match and once more we apologise for the regrettable actions displayed at the stadium over the weekend. We hope to continue strengthening our working relationship,” she concluded. Gor had to play their midweek KPL clash  in Nakuru where they edged Sony Sugar 2-0 to bring their title hopes back on track after the top two sides Mathare United and Bandari dropped points in goal-less draw with Kariobangi and a 4-0 defeat to Kakamega Homeboyz respectively.