Kenya Rugby Union chairman Richard Omwela said they will not be held hostage by striking senior Kenya Sevens players over contracts. A tough-talking Omwela said the union has huge financial challenges and cannot meet the players’ demands. “We can only pay what we have at the moment. The senior players want us to pay them like last season, which cannot work at the moment,” said Omwela. Her revealed that, alongside some directors, they have been forced to go their pockets to facilitate some of team’s requirements since last season. “Some of the directors you see here have been forced to dig deep into their pockets to make the players lives a bit comfortable,” added Omwela When asked if some of the players may return if sponsors come on board, Omwela was categorical. “It will be difficult because what do you tell the young players who have sacrificed so hard right now? We cant discard them,” he said. He observed that some of players have made their decisions to boycott training without consulting the union. “These are the same players who went to the Deputy President William Ruto and were given Sh2 million. They also went tor the Cabinet Secretary for Sports Rashid Echesa and got their money. This is all about money,” noted Omwela. The senior players who have refused to train with the rest of the squad include former skipper Andrew Amonde, Collins Injera, Willy Ambaka, Sammy Oliech , Nelson Oyoo, Eden Agero, Dennis Ombachi and Jeff Oluoch. Omwela said talks with sponsors is ongoing as well as the government for the operationalisation of the National Sports Fund. “We have sent our budgets to the Sports Fund and are awaiting their response. We are also talking with some sponsors,” noted Omwela. Omwela remained optimistic that the team will not be relegated from the World Sevens Series despite their slow start to the campaign. “It’s not the position we want to be but I am confident the team will rise to the occasion and we can move up the ladder and avoid relegation,” noted Omwela. Shujaa are currently ranked 14th in the standings with four points and face South Africa, Scotland and France at the Hamilton leg later this month. Omwela also announced that the board of directors has confirmed Sylvia Kamau as chief executive officer (CEO) for an initial period of one year effective January 1.