Maringo based Cinema FC beat favorites Githurai United 1-0 to win the 40th edition of the Koth Biro football tournament at Umeme Grounds in Ziwani on Saturday. Steve Opuku capitalized on Githurai goalkeeper Boniface Maundu’s blunder to fire home the lone goal in the 19th minute. Maundu punched the ball into Opuku’s path who in turn beat a Githurai defender and slotted the ball into the gapping net, sending Cinema fans into a frenzy. Maundu had early in the game made another blunder after he hesitated to clear a back pass and allowed Lenox Ogutu to latch on the loose ball. The resultant goal was, however, ruled out by the line man for a handball. A star-studded Githurai side started threatening early in the game with former Gor Mahia FC duo of Amos Nondi and Eric 'Marcelo' Ouma - based in Georgia and Sweden respectively - leading the onslaught. Marcelo made several flashing runs on the left wing but he was closed down by an alert Cinema defense that appeared well informed about the Kenyan international’s capabilities on the flanks. Marcelo broke loose again in the 25th minute after leaving his marker for dead but his hard near-post shot was blocked by the alert David Ogwade between the posts. Marcelo was at it again in the 33rd minute but this time Ogwade tipped his curving shot out for a corner. Cinema defended their solitary goal while trying to catch their opponents on the counter attack. The match was evenly balanced with both sides tightening their rear guard, with Cinema’s Caleb Owino’s shot off target summarizing the opening stanza as the game went into the breather. On resumption, Amos Nondi displayed great artistry in the midfield but he failed to get the penetrative through-pass thanks to a hawk-eyed Cinema defense that forced him to shoot from outside the box. Githurai coach Evans Odenyo switched the lively Nondi to the offensive with Captain Frederick Kimondo moving into central midfield. The tactical move saw Githurai threaten more but the side could still not get the equalizer to push the match to penalties. Ouma hit the woodwork in the 50th minute with a ferocious shot before the busy Ogwade denied him again in the 54th minute. Cinema soaked pressure to see off the game and came close to double their effort from a counter attack, only for Kennedy Otieno to blow the chance when he came one-on-one with the keeper in the 90th minute. Champions Cinema pocketed Sh300,000 in prize money while Githurai walked home with Sh100,000. Bundes, who beat Kingston 2-0 on penalties following a 1-1 draw in the third-place playoff on Friday, collected Sh75,000 while Kingston got Sh50,000 courtesy of sponsors SportPesa. Ali Abubakar of (Bundes FC) was voted man of the match and was handed Sh100,000, same as top scorer Reddie Eninga of Shauri Moyo. Githurai captain Fredrick Kimondo was happy with their display despite the loss. “We played as a team and lost as a team, we will be back stronger,” Kimondo said. Cinema captain Wayne Odhiambo congratulated his team mates for winning the tournament through teamwork. “We will be back to defend our title next season much stronger,” he said. Koth Biro Chief Executive Officer Robert Ochola confirmed that the next edition will take place between June/July with the Under-19 Koth Biro Junior competition being played in December in line with the FIFA calendar. Click here for the latest political news