I posted this on my Facebook page the other day. “If a man put[s] you in a better position in life, consider yourself blessed. Men today will watch you struggle and then want sex!” First, this is not my quote. I copied it off a man. Yes please, a man. I then asked that no one inbox me or tag me. But you know some men. They do not follow instructions. I do not know why certain men get so triggered when women speak up. When did we become your enemies? Why don’t they ever think beyond sex for sale. A woman expecting better treatment from a man automatically wants to use sex as leverage. Who hurt you people? Now I would like to ask you to put away all your prejudice and read that quote again. Every day I am reminded of how vulnerable and exposed I am as a woman. Every day my heart breaks that my three daughters have to live in this man’s world. Also every day, I am raising a good man and I hope he will never depart from my teachings. (If you listen keenly you will hear the ones who claim I am a feminist cringing. Ha!) As a girl growing up, I think I had a princess mentality, someone called me a damsel in distress. I believed that if there was a man, we were safe. I remember once, thieves broke into our house when my father was away. The man/father at the neighbour’s house was also not in. My mother waited for the thieves to go and for daylight to start screaming. All the women and children came out and I remember a woman saying, “Thank God no one is hurt, maybe they didn’t know we were just women and children!” That night we did not sleep at home. We went to a relative’s place till my father came back. The house felt safe again because my dad was back. A man is supposed to represent safety. Yet these days, if they are not trying to get sex from you, you are bickering with them like co-wives. Gone are the days we you would hear, “Wait Baba nani comes home in the evening, he will sort it out!” These days Mama nani sorts it out because even if Baba nani comes, he has no plan! A man will watch a woman struggling. Struggling to keep her job because she is the breadwinner. She needs off to take her baby to the clinic, she needs off because the maid has decided her own child fell off a tree in the village so she must leave at eight in the night, struggling to keep awake at a meeting because she was in hospital with a sick child all night, struggling to feed her children. He will call her to his office, and want sex, nay demand sex. He either has the power to sack her (no pun intended) or insinuates that he has. Whatever the case, how heartless can you be? Now let the woman decide to barter the sex for favours, because she is cornered or maybe she likes sex under duress, every heaven-bound men will be pointing fingers at the woman. Yet, in spite of the wickedness we see, Hallelujah! There are men who know their place. Kings, protectors, knights in shining armour (for damsels like myself) who have put women in better positions. They just did not watch us struggle. Because, we do struggle. As we try to jump into a matatu at rush hour and a man helps you on and even gets you a seat. You think he is about to ask for you number, but he smiles and looks on. Never making you feel uncomfortable. When you are raising a boy and he buys your son his first football and shows him how to pee on the fence. You lost your job and the father of your kids is a reptile and another man takes them on. When the mechanic charges you Sh500 for ‘putting’ for you full lights and he goes and gets your money back then shows you how to adjust your car lights to get full lights! When you just do not know what to do and he offers sincere advice. We need heroes, because women are meant to be protected.  fellyoyuga@gmail.com