A foreigner suspected to be linked to terrorist activities was on Tuesday arrested in Iten town. The man, who had no identification documents, was arrested after residents reported him to police claiming the suspicious man was engaging in criminal activities in the region. Security agencies including those from the Anti-Terror Police Unit (ATPU) have intensified surveillance in the North Rift region after last week's Dusit attack. The suspect, Abiwahab Hassan Hussein, was presented before Eldoret senior principal magistrate Harrison Barasa who allowed police to hold him for seven days to facilitate completion of investigations. “We need at least seven days to hold him and investigate the matter. I request to detain the suspect at Eldoret police station pending investigations," William Ndune, an ATPU officer, said. The magistrate asked the police to ensure they finalise the investigations and return the suspect to court. “This is a sensitive matter. We have just suffered a terrorist attack in the recent past and it would be offensive for this court not to allow the ATPU to carry out investigations as required,” Barasa said. Read: Three more Dusit terror suspects arrested The magistrate directed the case to be mentioned on January 29. Uasin Gishu county commissioner Abdi Hassan said they had tightened security to deal with criminal activities of any nature in the region. "We are on alert and happy that members of the public are working with us to deal with crime, including terrorism," Hassan said. Meanwhile, a woman was charged in an Eldoret court with the murder of her four-day-old infant. Mercy Chebet, 24, is alleged to have murdered her baby boy and dumped her in a pit latrine on December 19 last year at Racecourse area in Kapseret subcounty. The accused was arrested by police officers from Langas police station following complaints from her neighbours who suspected her to have committed the offence. Neighbours with the help of police officers retrieved the body of the infant from a pit latrine after arresting the accused. Chebet, who is a class eight dropout, was arraigned before Justice Olga Sewe. Sewe directed the prosecution to appoint a lawyer for the accused person. The court further directed police to take her to a hospital for a mental health assessment at the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital to ascertain if she is fit to stand trial. The case will be mentioned on 11th February. Read also: Why terror cases rarely get convictions Click here for the latest political news