The 27 Ras Al Khaimah Half Marathon champion, Kenya’s Peres Jepchirchir returns to the circuit after taking a maternity break in 2018. Jepchirchir, who won the race in a world record time in 2017, joins a strong women’s field that includes world half marathon champion Netsanet Gudeta of Ethiopia, the current world record holder and the UAE’s Alia Mohammed Saeed, who will carry home hopes at the race. Jepchirchir won the event in a then world record of 1:05:06 and returns after becoming a mother. While she may struggle to match the dramatic consistency of her 2016 racing year and the subsequent world record in Ras Al Khaimah, there is justifiable excitement about her return to the big time. Delvion Meringor, Valery Aiyabei and Naomi Chebet will be some of the Kenyans in the starting line-up alongside Jepchirchir. Equally keenly anticipated, is the appearance of Gudeta, whose win in Valencia last March not only gave her global gold but was a world record for a women’s-only race. The yawning winning margin behind her and the fact that she won all three of her half marathon contests in 2018, and furthermore can boast remarkable consistency over the last four years, suggests there is more to come. A first home win is possible through the UAE’s own Alia Mohammed Saeed, whose best time of 1:06:13 came in her debut and so far only the outing over 21.1km was in Valencia last October. She was a close runner-up there and her three wins out of three in 10km races last year, suggest her competitive instincts are finely honed. In the men’s category, Copenhagen Half Marathon champion Daniel Kipchumba leads a star-studded cast of elite runners. Kipchumba clinched the Copenhagen half in 59:06 in September last year and was again under the hour mark in New Delhi in October. Kipchumba will have Joram Okombo for company in the event. Okombo was placed fourth at the same event last year, but with a 58:48 best when runner-up in Copenhagen 2017. Despite a string of fast times over the last two years, he is yet to win a half marathon, so perhaps arrives a little hungrier than most. The experienced Alex Korio has been consistently under the magical 60-minute barrier in recent years and will be a contender alongside Stephen Kiprop, Bernard Ngeno, Edwin Kiptoo, and Morria Gachaga While not yet a sub-60 minute performer, much attention will be focused upon Switzerland’s latest road sensation Julien Wanders. Spending much of the year training in Kenya, the 22-year-old set a 27:25 European 10km record in Paris on December 30 and with his 1:00:09 half marathon best last February, he is perfectly poised to become just the fifth European ever to break the one hour mark.