The Kenyan Premier League through the Independent Disciplinary and Complaints Committee (IDCC) have instituted disciplinary proceedings against AFC Leopards’ Organizing Secretary Timothy Lilumbi on allegations of hooliganism during their match against Nzoia Sugar last weekend. Chaos erupted after the final whistle of the 1-1 draw at Kenyatta Stadium, Machakos, which seemed to irk the Leopards’ faithful who had the official and unidentified fans storm the pitch and descend on centre referee George Mwai and his assistants for alleged poor officiating. Leopards were headed for a 1-0 win until Nzoia levelled matters in the dying minutes of the game, a goal which Ingwe challenged, insisting there was a foul on goalkeeper Erick Bakame in the run up to the strike but Mwai stood his ground, leading to a physical confrontation. KPL had promised to review the match report from the officials, give their verdict and later take stringent disciplinary actions on the culprits guilty of assaulting the officials. Football Kenya Federation President Nick Mwendwa also weighed in on the matter and called on the club to produce the other unidentified hooligans for a possible prosecution. In a statement KPL found Lilumbi and unspecified fans guilty of assaulting the officials after the final whistle. “Following review of the Referee’s and Match Commissioner’s reports from the SPL 2018-19 Round 6 match between AFC Leopards SC and Nzoia Sugar FC, it has been found an AFC Leopards official, Timothy Lilumbi, together with some members/supporters of AFC Leopards assaulted the match referee and the first assistant referee,” said KPL in a statement. The league body reassured of its commitment in uprooting the vice and has since summoned the official to appear before the Independent Disciplinary & Complaints Committee (IDCC) tomorrow for the hearing of his case. The club wasn’t spared either as they are set to appear before the committee alongside the official. “Kenyan Premier League has zero tolerance on assault against match officials and as such has instituted disciplinary proceedings against Lilumbi and AFC Leopards before the Independent Disciplinary & Complaints Committee (IDCC). The case will come up for hearing on Friday, January 11 from 10:00am at the KPL headquarters,” added KPL.