The international community, organisations and diplomatic missions have condemned the Dusit terror attack that claimed 14 lives and left many others injured. Somalia's President Mohamed Farmaajo said, "I strongly condemn the terrorist attack in Nairobi. Our thoughts and prayers are with the government and the People of Kenya at this tragic time. Kenya is an important ally and a brotherly neighbour. Such heinous acts only serve to embolden our joint quest to vanquish terror." Somaliland representative to Kenya Ambassador Bashe Omar said the country stands with Kenya. “The Somaliland Liaison office in Nairobi condemns in the strongest possible terms, the cowardly terrorist attack on the Dusit hotel and complex,” Ambassador Bashe said. In an Africa Union Commission statement released in Addis Ababa on Tuesday, chairman Moussa Faki condemned "in the strongest possible terms the terrorist attack that took place today against innocent civilians in Nairobi, Kenya". Faki expressed his deepest condolences to the families of the victims and wishes a speedy recovery to the injured. From the region, IGAD executive secretary, Ambassador Mahboub Maalim said he "strongly condemns the cowardly and reprehensible attack on Dusit Complex". He commended Kenyan security forces and emergency services for their swift response to the attack, noting that their action helped save many lives. Maalim expressed confidence that the perpetrators, organisers and sponsors of the attack will be brought to justice as soon as possible. President Uhuru Kenyatta earlier on Wednesday announced the operation was over, saying all the terrorists had been killed by special forces. In the UN Secretary-General's remarks at Handover Ceremony of the Chairmanship of the Group of 77 and China, António Guterres said, "Allow me first of all to join my voice to the expression of total solidarity with the people, the Government and the President of Kenya in total condemnation of the horrible terrorist act that we have just heard about." In a statement released later by the UN, Guterres extended his condolences to the families of the victims and wished those injured a swift recovery. Read: 'We stand by you': United Nations condemns Dusit terror attack Deputy UN Secretary-General Amina J Mohammed tweeted, " I join @antonioguterres in condemning the evolving terrorist attack in #Kenya and also in expressing total solidarity to the people & government." EU Commissioner for International Cooperation and Development tweeted, "#Kenya has been hit by a terrorist attack. Total solidarity with the people and the Government of Kenya. #Europe stands by #Africa in its fight against terrorism. #AUEU #KenyaAttack @EUinKenya @europeaid @EU_Commission #RiversideAttack @UKenyatta." US Ambassador Robert Godec also commended Kenyan security services who were working to end the attack. "The US Mission is in close communication with Kenyan authorities and is providing assistance. All Mission personnel are safe and we stand ready to assist US citizens in need," Godec said. German Embassy in Nairobi, which is also housed along Riverside Drive said they are appalled and saddened by the attack. "We condemn this act of violence in the strongest terms and offer our deep condolences to the families of victims and all affected. Germany stands by Kenya in its fight against radicalisation and terrorism." UK High Commissioner Nick Hailey had on Tuesday said his team will support the Kenyan authorities as they respond to the attack, and support any Brits who need help. "I've spoken to President Kenyatta to assure him of UK's strong solidarity with Kenya on this sad day," he said. Foreign CS Monica Juma said her ministry is in contact with all partners and foreign missions and is ready to clarify any matter relating to the situation. Uhuru said his government will seek out every person involved in the funding, planning and execution of the heinous attack, adding that they will pursue them relentlessly. "Multiple security efforts are underway to disrupt and defeat any terrorist attack. We are on high alert and shall remain so," he said. "All visitors and Kenyans are safe in Kenya," Uhuru said. Read also: Riverside attack over, 14 lives lost - Uhuru Click here for the latest political news