Former Australian Open winner Maria Sharapova continued her marauding form in handing out a 6-2 6-1 thrashing to Sweden’s Rebecca Peterson on Wednesday and set up a blockbuster third-round showdown with defending champion Caroline Wozniacki. The Russian 30th seed, who was suspended for 15 months for taking banned drug meldonium in 2016, broke her 23-year-old opponent twice in the opening set and peppered the court with powerful groundstrokes in a superb display of hitting. Sharapova, who beat Harriet Dart 6-0 6-0 in her opening round, won seven consecutive games to take a 4-0 lead in the second set before world number 64 Peterson could get on the board. The Russian did not face a single breakpoint in the match and sealed it in 71 minutes with a third break in the set. In a clash of former world number one players, the five-times Grand Slam winner will next meet Dane Wozniacki, who eased past Johanna Larsson 6-1 6-3 earlier in the day. Meanwhile, Rafa Nadal picked apart second round opponent Matthew Ebden 6-3 6-2 6-2 at the Australian Open on Wednesday, in a near flawless display of top-spinning artistry. The second seed overcame an early first set challenge from the Australian, who should have secured a break-of-serve with the scores locked at 3-3. Ebden missed a backhand volley off an unexceptional passing shot - and it proved costly. The Australian was broken the next game, succumbing with a double-fault, and the Spaniard went through the broken line of defence, securing the set and an early break in the second. “I started a little bit slow ... then I saved that game at three-all,” Nadal said. “After that, things changed. I think I played well.” Sensing an early end to the proceedings, the crowd tried to lift one of its few remaining local hopes, while at the same time being dazzled by the Spaniard’s control of the court. The 17-times Grand Slam winner was never seriously challenged again, and the third set became an exhibition match. At one stage, Ebden simply shrugged after Nadal unleashed a wild forehand winner that was yet completely under control. Nadal, who showed no signs of discomfort from a thigh strain that troubled him ahead of the first major of the year, will play Alex de Minaur in the third round, marking his third consecutive match against an Australian.