One of the key underutilised opportunities for creating jobs in Kenya was outlined in a prophecy made 60 years ago. The prophet in this case was Dr Bernhard Grzimek, a German zoologist and pioneer conservationist. He is the man credited with the preservation of the storied Serengeti ecosystem known in this day as the Serengeti National Park, and regarded by Kenyans as “the other half” of the annual wildebeest migration. This is what Dr Grzimek prophesied in his bestselling 1959 book, Serengeti Shall Not Die: “Large cities continue to proliferate. In the coming decades and centuries, men will not travel to view marvels of engineering, but they will leave the dusty towns in order to behold the last places on earth where God’s creatures are peacefully living. Countries which have preserved such places will be envied by other nations and visited by streams of tourists. There is a difference between wild animals living a natural life and famous buildings. Palaces can be rebuilt if they are destroyed in wartime, but once the wild animals of the Serengeti are exterminated no power on earth can bring them back.” What Dr Grzimek essentially did was to lay a firm economic foundation for the conservation of African wildlife. He anticipated the developments that would make even the poorest of African countries potentially benefit from tourism. Thus he gave African governments (then just about to gain independence) a strong motive for preserving such pristine wilderness, in the face of strong demands for more farmland. And this prophecy has indeed come true: Kenya, for example, is deeply envied by other nations for its tourist attractions and most definitely visited by “streams of tourists”. Be that as it may, the Kenyan tourism sector — 55 years after Independence — is still very much in its infancy. We could be doing so much more to grow this sector in which we have a huge natural advantage. I do not say this as a criticism of Tourism CS Najib Balala. I know only too well how highly he is regarded by stakeholders in this sector. Nor have I forgotten how, when back in the days of the Grand Coalition Government I expressed misgivings about some new policy in the Tourism ministry, I was later to be approached by a prominent hotelier who told me I had done a great disservice to the sector in embarking on criticising the minister without waiting to see whether or not the initiative would succeed. But even granted Balala’s sterling performance in this ministry, the fact still remains that we have a long way to go yet, if we intend to fully exploit the employment potential of Kenyan tourism. For a key benefit of tourism, is that it creates plenty of the jobs we need most at this time: Not jobs for college graduates (though admittedly we need those too) but entry level jobs which can absorb school-leavers from poor families, giving them a chance to move up the economic ladder where they would otherwise be doomed to agrarian destitution, on ever-smaller farms. Now here are two quotes taken from online sources. First, on the job-creation potential of tourism: “A luxury 700-bed beach hotel at the Kenya coast, employs about 250 full-time staff, and takes on an additional 170 part time staff when fully booked…a resort is run by just a small handful of highly paid senior managers, with the great majority of employees being in the junior cadres...” Then, from a 2016 news item, illustrating how far yet we have to go in attracting the new global upper middle class to our shores: “Tourist season is in full bloom in Italy, and few countries are more important suppliers of tourists than China. Nearly three million Chinese visit Italy every year, a figure that is steadily rising, as Italy has become one of the top European destinations for Chinese tourists.” And I end by noting that Kenya still has many miles of undeveloped beachfront. And also that most tourists flying into the Mombasa airport for a beach holiday, also have a few days of a wilderness safari as part of their package tour.