The decision on whether to liquidate fallen retail chain Nakumatt or allow administrators to try and resuscitate it will be known on February 28. According to the supermarket’s administrator Peter Kahi, the High Court case arose after an insolvency petition by creditors filed over a year ago. As of October 2017, about 90 creditors had filed an insolvency petition against the retailer, with the number expected to have gone up in the last year. Chandaria Industries owned by billionaire Manu Chandaria form part of those seeking to wind up the retailer’s operations. It seeks to recover Sh353 million. In April 2017, African Cotton Industries Ltd was the first to file a petition against the supermarket in an attempt to recover over Sh70 million. The cash was for invoices raised under a commercial development agreement signed with Nakumatt for the period 2016-2017. Tea maker Gold Crown beverages filed an insolvency petition two months later to recover Sh60 million debt that was unpaid for about 18 months. According to Kahi, If Nakumatt is liquidated or sold, the administrators will first distribute the proceeds to secured or preferential creditors. The Insolvency Act 2015 empowers administrators to take various measures to rescue a company, with liquidation being the last resort. Ongoing efforts by Kahi to revive Nakumatt hit a block in March 2018 after planned voting on his proposal was aborted following questions on debt validity. By the time Nakumatt was being put under administration, the retailer had a cumulative debt worth Sh35.8 billion owed to creditors. Kahi’s proposal seeks voters approval on whether to write-off 25 per cent of their debts and convert the remaining 75 per cent to equity, or not. Other creditors who have filed a petition against Nakumatt include Bobmil industries (Sh195million), Basco paints ( Sh8.5 million), Manji Food Industries (Sh45.6 million), and Isinya Feeds Limited (Sh18million). Samsutech Electronics(Sh232 million), Kenchic limited (Sh26 million) and L’Oreal East Africa (Sh22 million) are also part of the creditors demanding for the liquidation of Nakumatt. Attempts by Tuskys to save Nakumatt were frustrated in the close of 2017 due to internal wrangles with one of Tuskys shareholders Yusuf Mugweru, opposing plans to buy a 51 per cent stake in Nakumatt.  