A section of Machakos MCAs have called on Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka to quit politics and pass the mantle to youthful leadership. The more than 20 county legislators drawn from Maendeleo Chap Chap, NARC, DP, Ford Kenya, sections of Wiper and Jubilee parties said Ukambani needs change of political guard to achieve development. “The Kamba community is today suffering because for example, never before have we had as few national public appointments as today. The sorry state of affairs can be attributed to retrogressive politics in the region and as Mzee Moi used to say, is directly attributable to bad politics –siasa mbaya, maisha mbaya,” said Machakos County Deputy Whip Titus Kaloki. Kaloki read the press statement at a joint presser in a Machakos hotel on Tuesday. He said the Kamba community is crying for economic empowerment. “We want our roads tarmacked, clean water for all our households, our youth want jobs, our men and women want income to take care of their families, among other empowerment and real development initiatives,” Kaloki he. The MCAs said to achieve these, they cannot follow the same route which they have followed in the past whose results they know, disempowerment and entrenched poverty. They said the Kamba nation needs new leaders who have clear track records and score cards of working in the people’s interests and not for their personal fame and high position. “That’s why we fully support the economic, political and development unity by governors Alfred Mutua (Machakos), Charity Ngilu (Kitui) and Kivutha Kibwana (Makueni),” he said. The MCAs said they are fully behind the three governors’ new unity initiative which they see as the panacea for Ukambani’s perennial problems. “We confirm that the Kamba community is ready for a different political path away from Kalonzo Musyoka and his Wiper party. While we respect him, we urge him to retire honourably." They said they had heard of some disperate moves by Wiper party leadership to convene leaders meetings in an attempt to revive Kalonzo’s diminishing political career but nothing will come out of it. The MCAs said they had been through the musical chairs before. “We wish to categorically state that, as Bob Marley once said, you can fool some people sometimes but you can’t fool all the people all the times. Your wicked, evil and pretentious ways are now known to all and sundry,” Kaloki said. They urged the Ukambani governors to call for a leaders meeting from all walks of life and chart the way forward for the Akamba people both at home and in diaspora. The MCAs urged the trio to spearhead a paradigm and mindset shift from politics of worshipping an individual to politics of delivering development for the people. They said interests of mwananchi must come first. The county legislators urged the three to engage President Uhuru Kenyatta to ensure the region benefits from national government projects. “We also urge them to swiftly craft a new political direction which will ensure one of their own becomes President in 2022 and the community returns back to government where it belongs,” said Kaloki. “In that regard, we urge them to team up with our elders, religious leaders, youth, women, professionals and all opinion leaders to repair the damage caused on the image of the Kamba community by Wiper’s politics of ethnic profiling and hate which have targeted some Kenyan communities in the past,” he added. The MCAs said Kambas do not hate any community.