If 2018 was
the year of building bridges, the Coast region missed it.   This was
a year of unfulfilled promises, failed alliances and political
misfortunes.   The only credit I could give to the handshake last
year is cooling down political temperature.   On other matters,
however, the post-handshake period changed nothing in the Coast. As an
opposition zone, we have sat and watched as political appointments and
selections in the national government passed by us.  Not even the
political parties that we voted overwhelmingly for in 2017, notably, ODM, cared
to share political positions with the region.   The Coast remained
marginalised. In some ways,
the region also marginalised itself.  Prospects for economic prosperity
under devolution have waned, turning hope to despair.  The sensuous and
sensitive cessation issues stalled or ended with the handshake; and the
much-touted Jumuiya ya Kaunti za Pwani regional economic bloc is yet to take
off. External
factors also contributed to the region’s misery last year.  In the name of
dry ports upcountry, the Port of Mombasa was stripped of some of its essential
services, denying coastal communities of business and employment
opportunities.  This 2018 gloomy picture was epitomised by the mass
failures of our children in primary and secondary national examinations. The
post-handshake culminated into political divisions and elusive
alliances.   The search for a viable party that had dominated
regional politics didn’t materialise. Instead, local leaders found themselves
jostling for space and positions in the established parties — ODM and Jubilee —
for political relevance in 2022. In fulfilling
this goal, loyalties to individual politicians took the upper hand.  The
beneficiary of this jostling and positioning has been Deputy President William
Ruto, whose 2022 presidential bid has politically divided the Coast down the
middle. The other beneficiary, as it has always been, was ODM leader Raila
Odinga.  As we enter 2019, Ruto and Raila will continue to dominate Coast
politics, especially if the latter decides to run for President. Also, as a
swing region, ANC’s Musalia Mudavadi, Kanu’s Baringo senator Gideon Moi, and
Wiper’s Kalonzo Musyoka will seek inroads into the Coast. We should
expect the political battle within the ODM to continue in the Coast.  The
intra-party revolt is a result of some ODM MPs directly professing their
political loyalty to Ruto, to the chagrin of the ODM leadership that has
recommended disciplinary actions against two of the revolting MPs, Malindi’s Aisha
Jumwa and Musambweni’s Duleiman Dori.  Have publicly supported Ruto’s
presidential bid. There are at
least four options open to the ODM’s national disciplinary committee. 
Jumwa and Dori could be warned, pardoned, suspended, or at worst, expelled from
the party.  There has been a lot of disquiet against taking disciplinary
actions against the duo.  Some of the revolting ODM MPs, among them,
Kilifi North MP Owen Baya, have read malice in the matter.  Last year,
Kilifi governor Amason Kingi convened a meeting of some ODM MPs during which
they disapproved of any disciplinary actions against Jumwa and Dori. If ODM decides
to expel the two and by-elections called, the outcome will have unprecedented
impact on the future of the party in the region.  The defeat of ODM will
not only destroy the party but also mark the downfall of Raila as the preferred
presidential candidate.  Conversely, a win will continue to uphold the
supremacy of ODM as the party of choice and boost Raila’s presidential chances
if he chooses to run again. Whatever
decisions ODM will take in respect of Jumwa and Dori will have a domino effect
across regional politics. Despite the
political, economic and social misfortunes that befell the Coast last year,
including the unsolved murder of former Kilifi Deputy Governor Kenneth Kamto,
there is hope for renewal in the New Year. Native coastal communities should
take advantage of the impending constitutional amendment — I don’t call it a referendum
because the width of the issues to be addressed has not yet been defined — to
reassert themselves in national politics and brace for real change. Any amendments
to the Constitution should reflect the interests of communities on matters that
are closer to them — land redistribution and equal opportunities in the
national government appointments and services.  The Constitution is the
supreme law of the land and coastal communities must, of necessity, vote to
shape their destiny through it. But this can
only happen through a deliberate political unity of purpose that has eluded the
Coast for decades.  The absence of a viable political party and a strong
leader to unify the region has been our Achilles’ heel. Anyone who
will change this in 2019 and beyond? 