Deputy President William Ruto has warned stern action will be taken against leaders and individuals who preach division. He said the past had haunted many people and the government would not sit back and watch as some individuals try to perpetuate the politics of hate or ethnicity. “We do not have a place for this kind retrogressive politics. Leaders must seek to further harmony, togetherness and development in Kenya,” Ruto said. Speaking on Friday at his Sugoi home in Uasin Gishu county during a meeting with various religious leaders, Ruto said the unity of the country cannot be compromised no matter who wins or loses an election. “I invite the political class to refine their messages for the well-being of our country. We all want to forge one country. We have a past, which we have many lessons to draw from,” he said. The DP asked religious leaders to work with the government in bringing Kenyans together, saying that they can positively change the society. “We all have the duty of building bridges that would unite Kenya. We will never allow the political class to take back Kenya to instability.” Other leaders present were MPs Julius Melly (Tinderet), Cornelly Serem (Aldai), Caleb Kositany (Soy) and Oscar Sudi (Kapseret). Bishop Maurice Crowley of the Kitale Catholic Diocese preached for the unity of the country saying the church would continue to engage the government and politicians for the betterment of Kenya. “The future of this country depends so much on what our leaders do. We will work with the government to improve governance and foster development,” he said. The religious leaders said they would continue supporting the unity between President Uhuru Kenyatta Ruto as it had resulted in improved development and unity among various communities in the country. Crowley praised the government for its move to boost agriculture. “The move to increase maize prices to Sh2,500 per 90-kg bag is commendable. This will address the challenges many farmers have been undergoing in the region,” he said. Read: Uhuru directs NCPB to buy maize at Sh2,500 Uhuru on Thursday directed the Ministry of Agriculture to start buying maize from farmers at Sh2,500 per bag up from Sh2,300. The President also directed Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri to authorise the NCPB to purchase two million bags. The maize will be bought through the Strategic Food Reserve in coordination with the counties. Read also: Stop inciting Kenyans, Ruto warns politicians Click here for the latest political news