Murang’a leaders on Friday dismissed claims that the government has neglected the Central region. They said the claims are meant to divide Kenyans and must be condemned. Those present included Governor Mwangi Wa Iria, MPs Peter Kimari (Mathioya) and Joseph Nduati (Gatanga), and MCAs. They said the remarks threatened to instigate toxic politics soon after the 2017 General Election. Nduati criticised Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria for making utterances targeted at the President “while under the influence of alcohol”. Kuria on Thursday apologised to the President and said his remarks were taken out of context. He also supported the Building Bridges Initiative. Nduati warned against 2022 politics and urged that leaders concentrate on working for wananchi. “We are seeing many projects including roads, power and water in Murang’a,” he said. The Central region is represented in the Budget and Finance committee and leaders should not blame the President for inadequate development, he said. Iria said the Jubilee administration was tested in its first term and overwhelmingly reelected because of its development record. “The government’s scorecard was rated by Kenyans, who thought it was satisfying and voted them back,” he said. Parliament debates budget Iria said it is unfair for some leaders to start pointing fingers at President Uhuru Kenyatta. The head of state needs ample time to fulfil his mandate, he said. “As leaders, we need to watch our language with regard to this issue because it can degenerate into toxic politics,” he said. The county chief cautioned that the country is not ready for election campaigns and urged leaders to seek audience with the presidency if they have grievances they want addressed. The leaders reminded their colleagues that the country has structures through which resources are allocated based on the annual national budget, which is debated by both houses of Parliament. “We also have a formula of revenue distribution. If it has a challenge, we can all sit down and agree on the best formula, but the President does not allocate resources,” Iria said. He added that like other regions, Murang’a is not fully satisfied with its development but asking for more does not mean politicians should blame the presidency. Kimari backed Uhuru’s development agenda and demanded that he be respected. “The presidency is the symbol of national unity. I support all the initiatives the president has started in the country,” he said. Kimari acknowledged that the national government has initiated many development projects in Murang’a and are in the pipeline. He urged Kenyans to support the Building Bridges Initiative. It has borne numerous fruits such as improved business environment and booming tourism, the legislator said. “I don’t know why some leaders are against such a thing that is working for us all as Kenyans,” Kimari said.