Matatu owners won a victory after a court ordered renewal of licenses for 14-seater matatus that were to be phased out. Matatu Owners Association chairman Simon Kimutai said on Tuesday that the Constitution and human rights division of the court approved renewal 2019. “Justice Wilfrida Okwany ruled that our members, whom we applied for, be issued with licenses.” Kimutai said. Last week on Friday, the chairman and other matatu owners had filed a new application challenging the government’s move to phase out 14-seater matatus. The National Transport Safety Authority had blocked the renewal of their licenses, which confused operators countrywide. Kimutai rejected allegations that he fully supported NTSA’s move to ban matatus from the Central Business District. CONSPIRING WITH GOVERNMENT? On Tuesday, a section of matatu owners and operators in Nairobi accused Kimutai and his counterpart Dickson Mbugua of the Matatu Welfare Association of colluding with NTSA to bar 14-seater matatus from the CBD. “They are new federation associations and they do not understand a thing. The best thing they could have done was be factual and not speak on allegations,” Kimutai said. He said he could not support something that would hurt operators and lead to. The National Confederation of Matatu Transporters claimed Kimutai and Mbugua have “auctioned the matatu industry to the government”. They said that instead of defending the matatu investors, they are sending them home. The operators, led by federation chairman Nelson Mwangi, also accused Kimutai and Mbugua of advising the government to phase out matatus in big cities,including Nairobi and Mombasa, to create more room for higher capacity buses which they had been promised they could manage. BAN FAILED AGAIN The ban on low-capacity matatus came into force in 2014 but was lifted by President Uhuru Kenyatta. This move caused disarray in efforts to restore order to Kenya’s transport system. The ban had been intended to reduce road congestion that hurts the economy and hampers traffic flow. The President had said the ban would discourage investment in the sector that accounts for a growing share of the economy. According to an economic survey, there are more than 37,000 low-capacity matatus across the country. A report from the Matatu Owners’ Association says at least 70 per cent of Kenyans rely on public transport, which generates more than Sh200 billion annually.