Ulinzi Stars have always bee considered title contenders in every top flight campaign since their period of dominance at the start of the millennium. The soldiers have, however, not lived up to their top billing, winning the league only once since their run of three titles between 2003 and 2005 when they were triumphant in 2010.This year is no different for Dunstan Nyaudos charges are among a handful of teams viewed as being capable of dislodging Gor Mahia. But a return nine points from seven matches is not the ideal foundation to challenge for the championship. Ahead of their weeekdn clash with Tukser Nyaudo has called on his charges to rise to the occasion and deliver better results. “Sony Sugar is considered a really tough opponent, especially when playing at home, Awendo Green Stadium, and to get a win there means the players possess good fighting spirit and character,” Nyaudo reflected on their 1-0 win in Awendo last Sunday. “The win over Sony shows it is all about approaching the game with a good mentality and applying the same. We decided as a team to put behind us all the sloppy performances and focus well and in the end, it paid off. I liked their character in the match and I can say the winning touch is coming.” With the brewers having lost their last outing in the demoralising defeat to top-of-the table Mathare United, Nyaudo was under no illusion about what to expect when they come up against their former coach Robert Matano. “We know Tusker will be tougher. Their coach, Matano (Robert) was here and he knows a few things about Ulinzi Stars and he will want to exploit the weaknesses. The advantage is two-way though, we also know his tactics and we will try to counter them. A win here will surely give players confidence and the stability we so badly need,” added Nyaudo. In the corresponding fixture last year, Masita Masuta headed home Cliff Kasuti’s left footed cross to hand Ulinzi Stars a 1–0 win at Afraha Stadium. Four points separate the two sides going into the game, with Tusker on 13 and fourth on the log while Ulinzi are ninth with as many points.