Calm in the citadel is unusual during transitions. The aroma of power unsettles those around the incumbent, as much as it does those who eye stakes in the next government. The Uhuru Kenyatta Succession confirms this fact. The Uhuru-Ruto partnership wasn't a compact made in paradise. The idea that the Jubilee alliance would reign for 20 years - 10 for President Uhuru Kenyatta and 10 for Deputy President William Ruto - defies the turbulence of realpolitik. The President's defunct party, The National Alliance, and the DP's rested URP - united in 2012 for a purpose. Their owners needed state power to neuter the International Criminal Court. The party owners then faced charges of crimes against humanity at The Hague court. Winning the 2013 general election was a survival strategy. The two survived the ICC scourge. TNA and URP merged before the 2017 general election to guarantee Uhuru a final constitutional term in office. Uhuru's court did not want the scion of Founding President Jomo Kenyatta to leave a legacy of a one-term president. Seven years later, the courtiers of the presidential duo understand each other better. The circumstances have also changed. The hidden cards have popped up. Uhuru and Ruto are no longer joined at the hip. Anything to the contrary is denial, which is also expected. The crocodiles that blocked Nasa's way to Canaan have since blocked the roads to State House. The discovery of 'crocodiles' shatters the fantasy of an Alice in Wonderland Succession arithmetic for the Deputy President. The strained power relations confirm the repetitive character of history. But the strain is not fatal. Targets of previous succession intrigues always had alternative plans. They survived to live in State House. Jomo, his successor Daniel Moi, third President Mwai Kibaki, and the incumbent Uhuru faced similar hurdles. The ride will not be rosy for the fifth president. Hopes of realising instant ambition may be derailed, but there may be an alternative route. It may be long, but it gets there. Old Jomo was not the darling of the colonial government in 1962. The colonial government, and the empire, regarded him as a 'leader unto darkness'. But colonial resistance did not stop Jomo's allies from evicting crocodiles on State House Road. The selflessness and unalloyed patriotism of the late Jaramogi Oginga Odinga made it possible for Old Jomo to be the first President. His successor, and VP for 11 years, Daniel arap Moi, did not find the ride to the presidency any easier. Key people around Kenyatta regarded Moi as an ethnic and class outsider. But the 'change the Constitution' group, with 'Ngoroko' as their armed wing, failed to stop Moi. Division among the 'Kiambu Mafia', with the late Njoroge Mungai, Mbiyu Koinange, Kihika Kimani opposed to Moi, and then Attorney General Charles Njonjo and others routing for Moi, then MP for Baringo Central, made it possible for a VP to succeed a President in 1978, under the single party (Kanu) rule. Moi was foxy and strategic. Those who supported him saw in him a passing cloud. But the real Moi reigned for 24 years, as the undisputed leader of the Mama na Baba party. Moi's successor Kibaki was not the President's choice. Moi replaced Kibaki as VP after the 1988 general election, when Kibaki seemed the favourite of the Kikuyu electorate. Kibaki worn the 2002 general election against Moi's choice Uhuru. He rode on the goodwill of Kenyans who were united for change, under the captainship of Raila Odinga. Uhuru was not the choice of power brokers around Kibaki ahead of the 2013 general election. But the Jubilee wave of Uhuru and Ruto turned the tide against the status quo. Forces of incumbency - the deep state - blocked Raila from the presidency in 2007, 2013, and 2017. These forces are not excited about a Ruto presidency, even after the man from Sugoi crowned Kenyatta II. Jaramogi made Old Jomo King. Raila crowned Kibaki after two failed presidential runs. Moi did not try to outshine the master. He did not own motor-mouths with fangs-on-steak to prey on targets, even at the slightest provocation. Moi lay low like an envelope to arrive at the Mansion on the Hill. At age 55, history and time are on Ruto's side. But he needs an alternative strategy. If he does not score in about three years, he can hit the net in 2027.