Those who ceded their land for the construction of the second phase of the standard gauge railway will get their Sh10.2 billion compensation this week. The National Land Commission yesterday said it has received the money from the Treasury and will begin effecting payments. “We are ready to compensate those who gave out their land for the project. However, we’ll wait for those who moved to court and those still with disputes,” NLC vice chairperson Abigael Mukolwe told the Star on phone. The government released Sh7.9 billion to compensate the land owners in October last year. The move brings to an end squabbles between land owners and the contractor - China Communications Construction Company. In September last year, Kajiado land owners blocked the construction of the railway for over two months demanding compensation. The contractor told the Star last year that the project had stalled. “At the moment CCCC is still waiting for the land compensation issues to be settled before intense work resumes in the sites,” a company said. Major construction works were halted following the protests with just slight works on the slope protection. Works along the line stalled on July 18. The 120km Nairobi-Naivasha line will cost Sh150 billion. Phase 2A includes the construction of a 5.3km tunnel, the supply and commissioning of 56 locomotives, supply and commissioning of 40 passenger coaches and the supply and commissioning of 1,620 freight wagons. Areas where work stalled include Empaash, Tuala, Oloosirkon, Milimani, Rankau, Kandisi, Merisho, Nkoroi, Kangawa, Oloolua, Ngong, Kimuka and Suswa. Land owners had ceded their land to the contractor under “early entry agreement” deal. They then allowed the contractor to start work. Yesterday, Mukolwe said land owners in Rongai-Ngong Line, Ngong –Mai Mahiu line, including Mai Mahiu station and Mai-Mahiu- Suswa station are set to get their payout. “The commission is happy to announce that we have received the balance of the payout for those wh gave their land to the project,” Mukolwe said. Mukolwe praised the land owners for the patience and cooperation. “We assure all of a speedy compensation,” she said. She asked those affected to vacate the corridor immediately they receive compensation for the site to handed over to the contractor. Mukolwe said the commission was keen to ensure SGR project is completed on time.