Kenya should put victims at the forefront in its response to the attack on DusitD2 hotel in Nairobi, Human Rights Watch has said. Africa researcher at Human Rights Watch Otsieno Namwaya said the government should ensure that the crime is investigated promptly and that those responsible are brought to justice. "We condemn this horrific attack in the strongest terms. Justice for the victims and their families means fast and fair investigations and prosecutions of those responsible,” Namwaya said. The death toll from the Dusit terror attack rose to 21 after six more bodies were retrieved from the scene while a police officer succumbed to injuries in hospital. Inspector General of police Joseph Boinnet on Wednesday night said 28 people had been injured following the attack and admitted to various hospitals. The number rose from 14. Read: Death toll from Dusit attack rises to 21, two suspects arrested Also read: 50 unaccounted for after Dusit terror attack - Kenya Red Cross In a statement on Thursday, Namwaya said the authorities should work to respond to this crisis adding that they should put in place plans to ensure access to essential medical services for the victims. Namwaya said the authorities have failed to support victims of al-Shabaab attack in the past with many struggling with the physical injuries and trauma arising from the attacks. "As they struggle to respond to this tragedy, authorities should make sure victims are receiving the help they need," Namwaya said. "In all cases, authorities should ensure they adhere to human rights standards and refrain from abusive tactics." Since October 2011, when Kenyan military deployed in Somalia, there have been several al Shabaab attacks in Nairobi and elsewhere. On September 21, 2013, heavily armed men attacked the Westgate Mall, a popular upscale shopping center in Nairobi, killing at least 67 people and injuring many others. Read: Attack rekindles worst memories of Westgate In 2015, armed gunmen attacked Garissa University College, killing at least 147 people and injuring close to 100. Click here for the latest political news 