Over the weekend here in Mombasa, President
Uhuru Kenyatta launched the construction of the Mama Ngina New Generation Water
Front Park.The launch of the ultra modern park was
done in the presence of Raila Odinga, Governor Hassan Joho and Coast
politicians, among others. During his speech, the President took a swipe at a
section of politicians from Central Kenya who had earlier complained of being
marginalised by his government on development. The politicians claimed their region had
not received a fair share of the ongoing development projects in the country.
They had argued that the President had neglected their region and was busy
initiating projects in other areas. With an apparent reference to the
complaining politicians, the President called them “washenzi” as he went on to
explain that his government will ensure development in every corner of the
country. Since then, there has been much hullaballoo
about the “washenzi” reference, with Bahati MP Kimani Ngunjiri specifically
leading his followers in a demonstration condemning the “washenzi” remark by Uhuru.
Many viewed this as an act of defiance against the President. To Haki Africa, the “washenzi” debate
brought to the fore the primary question of devolution and ethnicity. According
to the Constitution, one of the objects of devolution is “to ensure equitable
sharing of national and local resources throughout Kenya”. This means with the
implementation of devolution, every region is supposed to benefit fairly
without necessarily relying on the national government. The distribution of resources to the counties
is meant to ensure each region develops to the satisfaction of its people. The
role of the national government then becomes to only facilitate a conducive
environment for the counties to operate optimally. With the current “washenzi”
debate, however, it means the county governments are not self-reliant when it
comes to development and still require national government’s support. If this
is true, it then means the devolved system is not working as it is and needs to
be re-planned. The “washenzi” debate has also shown Kenya
is still struggling to shrug off the disease of tribalism, 55 years after
independence. That we still have leaders who are not happy when development is
initiated in other corners of the country other than their own is a pity and an
embarrassment. It is very disappointing to hear elected leaders warning against
bringing certain communities together, but supporting the coming together of
other selected communities. Comments by Ngunjiri that the President should
concentrate on bringing together only identified communities and leave out
others should be treated with the contempt they deserve. In fact, these
comments should be investigated by the National Cohesion and Integration
Commission and where malice is proven, the politician should be barred from
ever contesting and holding a public position. As a nation, we should jealously guard our
diversity and unity. We must not allow a few politicians to drive a wedge
between our communities and plant seeds of discord. All said and done, we must also remember the
so-called “washenzi” have rights too. First and foremost, they have the freedom
of expression as guaranteed by Article 33 of the Constitution. While they can
express their concerns and call for development in their region, this must not
be done at the expense of inciting the public and promoting tribalism. They also have the right to demonstrate as
guaranteed by Article 37. No person should be targeted by security authorities
for taking to the streets to express their displeasure of a government
decision. Security authorities must be careful not to drive a political agenda
and appear partisan. In a democratic society, criticism should be welcomed as
long as it is done in a non-discriminatory manner devoid of tribal hashtags. Kenya has come a long way to be divided
along tribal and regional blocs.