Not new, but neither pleasant, Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko's nasty wars with county workers once again reared its head as he came out to 'justify' the resignation of his Education executive yesterday. Speaking in Mombasa, Sonko accused Janet Ouko of accepting to be used by cartels to defraud education bursaries, an assertion she rejected. Sonko said despite being ‘one of his most trusted’ county officials and the most hardworking minister, Ouko failed to account for millions of shillings missing at the Education docket. “I wish to fault Janet's claims that my leadership is full of blackmail, frustration and intimidation. If we lose public funds and you are told to account, is that blackmail?” Sonko said. The governor, who has so far had several reshuffles and sacked a number of his ministers, said he accepts Ouko’s resignation and would not wish for her to stay any longer, following the graft claims in her office. Ouko resigned on Tuesday due to personal reasons, but later said she had been working under intimidation and blackmail. "Everyday you are being threatened to be fired, arrested or taken to court. I just couldn’t work under that kind of environment. The rest of the CECs who are there are experiencing the same but are afraid," she told the Star. Yesterday, while maintaining he was fighting corruption, Sonko said senior officials conspired in the misappropriation of Sh357 million meant for bursaries. "I will not negotiate with officials who are corrupt. Those accused of any scandal will be dealt with. I do not care if I will lose friendship, but I will make sure they are charged for misuse of public funds,” he said. The governor accused the former executive and her staff of issuing bursary cheques in favour of Obudhe Education Centre, after diverting the cash and rewriting other cheques that had not been approved by the county to their proxies. “This cartel has been on for years, until when I became the governor. Janet aliingizwa box na akakubali kukuwa part and parcel of the game (Janet accepted to be involved with the cartel),” Sonko said. The governor claimed a person by the name Jacob Omondi has been withdrawing millions of shillings meant for bursaries. “Omondi had been withdrawing up to Sh3 million in cash from three specific banks,” he said. Sonko said they had reported the scam to the EACC and banking fraud unit, who took immediate action and the accounts were frozen. He further said the former executive allowed bursaries meant for poor students to be drawn to their proxies. "Even after warning her, she never responded by taking any action against the junior staff,” Sonko said. He said in total, Sh10 million between 2017 and 2018 got lost under Ouko's watch. However, while responding to Sonko, the former executive said the governor has been using his powers to intimidate and frustrate people under the guise of working. She said she operated under threats and intimidation, making her working environment less conducive. “Why did he renew my contract if indeed he claims I was corrupt? Akwende huko! He should face me and tell me all that. I gave bursaries amounting to Sh370,000 and it was diverted to an MCA under his instructions. Let him not pretend to be clean,” Ouko said. The former executive claimed the governor operates on blackmail but added that she does not fear him. Ouko further denied owning the company mentioned by Sonko for being behind unscrupulous deals in the misuse of funds. But Sonko dismissed Ouko’s allegations, terming them mere allegations. “I have evidence of everything I am saying. I do not fear asking for accountability if this is what it will take,” Sonko stressed.