The government has released 50 per cent capitation for free education in public schools. This translates to Sh15 billion for public secondary schools and Sh3 billion for public primary schools. On Tuesday last week, basic Education PS Belio Kipsang said Sh30 billion would be dispatched for secondary schools while Sh6 billion would go to primary education. He said the funds would be dispatched through the National Education Management System (Nemis) and be in school accounts by last Friday. But on Monday, Secondary Schools Heads Association chairman Kahi Indimuli told the Star the funds were yet to reflect in schools’ accounts. “So far the funds have not reflected in the accounts. But the ministry told me Treasury has released the money to Central Bank so maybe by tomorrow it will have reflected,” Indimuli said on phone. Last week, Kipsang said the Sh30 billion would cater for the education of 2.6 million students whose details had been captured on Nemis by January 22. Speaking at Ngong Township Primary school, the PS revealed the 300,000 students in 500 schools would miss out on the capitation since their details were not on the system. Read: Government releases Sh29.5 billion for free day secondary education The digital platform was introduced by the government for accurate management of student data and to ensure accountability for funds disbursed to schools. Under the government sponsorship programme, every student is entitled to Sh22,224 per year as tuition fee. Those in boarding schools cater for their own accommodation. Kipsang said the schools that are yet to capture student details on Nemis will only receive their capitation once they do so. “We are not paying any money outside Nemis,” he said. Other than capitation, students whose details are captured on Nemis are also entitled to free NHIF medical cover. The Sh4.05 billion medical scheme was launched in April last year by President Uhuru Kenyatta for all students in public secondary schools. Every student is entitled to a premium of Sh1,350 per as part of the Big Four Agenda for the provision of affordable health care to all. Related: How free is free secondary education? - MP Ali Mbogo Click here for the latest political news