Has Nairobi governor Mike Sonko appointed a ‘Matiang’i’ at City Hall? Well, days after President Uhuru Kenyatta picked Interior CS Fred Matiang’i to chair a committee meant to supervise government projects, Sonko is said to have borrowed a leaf and appointed a man from Matiang’i’s rural home to coordinate county programmes. Corridor understands the man will be the governor’s personal assistant and official spokesperson. He is to execute the deputy governor’s duties until Sonko appoints one. All senior City Hall officers have been directed to report to him. Copy-pasting you may call it? Well, Sonko has never disappointed on that. ***** A senior official in one of the independent state agencies is the talk of town. When the woman took office, she was living in a rental house and was driving a Toyota Premio. After a short stint in her job, however, she now owns seven houses, some in the upmarket Kileleshwa. She has at least 14 shuttles registered in her brother’s name and is said to be driving in top-of-the-range cars only. The official is said to have two Mercedes Benzes, a Prado, Toyota Demio and a double-cabin car. Insiders say the woman’s appetite for deals is behind her massive wealth. They hope she will not escape the radar of the no-nonsense DCI chief George Kinoti. ***** A university boss in the lake basin region has been irregularly hiring staff in the past one year. The VC is out to appease his godfathers, who played a key role to have his term renewed after he performed dismally in the interviews. The professor has been dishing out jobs only to people connected to politicians, including plum ones to two brothers of a Jubilee MP from the region. Corridors is aware of a storm in the university’s administration. Some senior staff tried to resist the skewed postings. For instance, the VC is said to have placed three Form 4 leavers at the cadre of a graduate. A former janitor related to a vocal Jubilee MP was given clerical duties, despite his low qualifications. ***** Nyamira voters waiting with baited breath the apex court ruling on the election of Governor John Nyagarama. Some politicians, including ODM treasurer Timothy Bosire, are, however, busy scheming to capture the seat in case of a by-election. The ruling is set for the January 30. Bosire, an ODM heavyweight, had previously not shown interest in the seat as he battled to remain Kitutu Masaba MP. The current political situation, coupled with a push by residents, could have forced him to throw his hat in the ring. Well, won’t Nyamira experience high-octane politics in case of a fresh poll? Click here for the latest political news