The 2019 National Population and Housing Census will be conducted digitally with the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics set to acquire about 165,000 mobile devices for the exercise. This will be the eighth census in Kenya’s history with two of the previous seven having been conducted during the pre-independence period. The census is conducted every ten years. The 2009 headcount put Kenya’s population at 38,610,097. The August census will be the first under the devolved system. Treasury CS Henry Rotich said the use of technology will enhance the quality of data. The paperless data collection follows UN recommendations. “It has inbuilt checks, correction of inconsistent responses and cross-validation with other records,” Rotich said. Read: Digital census to improve data quality - KNBS boss He spoke on Wednesday at a Nairobi hotel during an update on the exercise. Present were KNBS Director General Zachary Mwangi and PS planning Dr Julius Muia. The census provides statistical information on the size, distribution, and characteristics of Kenya’s population. Among the key indicators to be collected include fertility, mortality, labour, education and people living with disabilities. "This information will enable the government to plan its spending based on socio-economic and demographic status," Rotich said. The CS said that the data will also help monitor the progress of Vision 2030 and the implementation of the Big 4 Agenda. Read also: Use biometrics in census for accurate data, Uhuru urged “The census will provide the much needed comprehensive data at the county and lower levels to inform development planning and programming to facilitate quality service delivery to citizens,” he said. This involves determining the level of funding that goes to sectors such as health and education. The government will also use the census to monitor the level of achievement of internationally agreed programmes such as Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). They include status on eradication of poverty, provision of clean water and sanitation, quality education, good health and zero hunger amongst the populations. Currently, cartographic mapping, a process of dividing the whole country into smaller units called enumeration areas, is ongoing. Recruitment for census personnel will commence in June. A total of 135, 000 enumerators, 27,000 content supervisors and 2,700 ICT supervisors will be hired. They will be assisted by security, village elders and coordinators. Rotich cautioned the public against falling prey to fraudsters who ask applicants to send money. The recruitment exercise will be free, he said. “The government does not require individuals to pay any money to be considered for employment,” he said. Fraudsters have in the past few months been putting up fake online ads for enumerators and asking applicants to send money. Rotich said any communication on the Census must come from either Treasury or KNBS websites. Click here for the latest political news