Gor Mahia coach Hassan Oktay has cited Egyptian giants Zamalek as their biggest threat to their quarter-final dream as they prepare for the group stages of the Caf Confederations Cup next month. He revealed that the Egyptian giants are very unpredictable and will have to be handled with a lot of caution. The Turkish coach termed their Pool ‘D’ where they have also been pitted against Petro Atletico of Angola and NA Hussein Dey of Algeria as fair as long as they prepare well. Last season, K’ogalo were on the verge of making it to the last eight but failed to scoop the much needed point from the final two matches which they lost with identical 2-1 score-line to Rayon Sports of Rwanda and USM Alger of Algeria. “The pool is fair according to me but I think Zamalek will give us trouble. I will consult my Egyptian friends who handle some top teams there and come up with the best tactical approach to cruise past them. We stand a chance of making to the quarters,” he said. The tactician partially credited their qualification to the group stages to the defensive roles played by the duo of Cercidy Okeyo and Ernest Wendo. Despite missing two of their battle-hardened centre halves, the Kenyan champions reaped a priceless barren draw against New Star de Doula of Cameroon in Doula last weekend to qualify to the group stages for the second year running. Initially Gor had recorded a slim 2-1 win at home, leaving the Cameroon side with a lighter task of capitalising on home comfort to force a 1-0 win in the reverse fixture but found the going tough as Gor frustrated them to a barren draw to pocket an Sh27 million besides sailing to the group stages. Oktay confessed that pairing Okeyo and Wendo played a massive role in grinding out the away result and lauded the team spirit displayed by his charges. “I had to pair Wendo and Okeyo to block our opponents from constantly reaching out final third. They combined well and helped our defence which you all know was dealt a blow by the suspension of Harun Shakava and Joash Onyango. I was impressed with the team’s fighting spirit and the dedication to achieve our target.”