Jubilee vice chairman David Murathe has reignited his onslaught on DP William Ruto’s presidential bid saying he will seek the Supreme Court’s intervention in blocking him from vying in 2022. Speaking on Saturday during the burial of Jubilee Secretary General Raphael Tuju’s brother, Kefa, in Rarieda, Murathe maintained that Ruto should retire together with President Uhuru Kenyatta. “Tutaenda hadi Supreme Court. Sisi hatucheki na watu (we will head to the Supreme Court, we are not joking with anyone),” he said. Murathe reiterated his stance that the presidency is a pair and under the Constitution, the DP cannot seek a new term in 2022 as he will have already served the maximum two terms together with President Kenyatta. "Section 148 of the Constitution sub-section 5 says nobody can run for deputy president for more than two terms," he said. The Jubilee vice chair added that section 145 equally prohibits the President from vying for more than two terms. He explained that in the event that the President cedes power, Ruto automatically becomes President without the need for an election. Murathe said Ruto is serving concurrently with the President. "So in effect, if he automatically becomes President, the mandate he has is that of the President under which they were elected," he said. Murathe first made similar remarks on December 26 in Vihiga, which attracted the ire of some Jubilee leaders who told him off. Read: Ruto not right man to lead after Uhuru, says Murathe More: Kabogo lashes out at Murathe over Ruto 2022 bid He said the Kikuyu community does not have an MoU with anyone regarding the 2022 presidential race. "If he (Ruto) has an MoU with Uhuru Kenyatta, then that was an agreement between two individuals," Murathe said during the 39th Maragoli cultural celebrations at Municipal Grounds, Mbale. Speaking at his Sugoi home on Wednesday, Ruto said he will support whoever beats him in the 2022 Jubilee presidential nominations. The DP said the party was founded on democracy and, therefore, candidates running for various seats should accept the outcome of the process when that time comes. Ruto has previously said that no one owes him a political debt. “We will all compete for different positions in the nominations. Those of us who will be defeated should concede and support the winners,” he said. Murathe’s latest remarks are likely to draw criticism from Ruto’s allies and leaders from the Mt Kenya region who have pledged unwavering support for Ruto’s race to State House. See also: Uhuru distances himself from Murathe on Ruto retirement remark Click here for the latest political news