Kenya Harlequins assistant coach Benjamin Ayimba has credited his side’s superior forward play for their stunning 37-24 win over Impala in the Ngong Road derby over the weekend. The former Kenya Sevens tactician was full of praise for his charges, who made a lightning start to lead 27-0 at half time before the Sarries mounted a comeback in the second to put a little bit of respectability on the scoreline. “The start was the key for us. Our forwards were superb. We won the contact point, we were dominant at the breakdown and we had mismatches out wide and that set the tone for the team,” added Ayimba. “Our defence in the first half was good. Every time Impala got a sniff, we were able to get a turnover and convert defence into attack and score.” Try scorers for Quins were winger Idriss Kakai — brace, Herman Humwa, David Ambunya with fullback Lyle Asiligwa adding three penalties and four conversions. Impala’s try scorers were Erick Kerre, Edmund Anya, Davis Makori and a penalty try. This was Impala’s fourth consecutive defeat and drops them to seventh on the log with 20 points. Head coach Frank Ndong rued the poor start for the loss. “We did not fire a shot at Quins in the first half we let them run ragged at us and our defence and set pieces were poor. The second half was good We fought hard,” said Ndong. Quins stay third on the log with 31 points following the win over their bitter rivals and have opened an eight point gap between them and Nondies in fourth place. League leaders Kabras kept their unbeaten ran intact with a 46-15 demolition of Mwamba in Kakamega. Paul Abuto, Brian Tanga, Hillary Odhiambo, Phillip Wokorach, Charlton Mokua, Logan Basson and Mario Wilson scored a try each for the hosts, who led 29-0 at half time. Wokorach added five conversions. KCB stayed second after a 49-6 win over Nakuru RFC in Ruaraka. Strathmore registered their maiden win of the season after a hard-fought 20-14 victory over Homeboyz as Menengai Oilers beat Blak Blad 24-13. Nondies beat Mean machine 17-3.