 “You’ve
been played. We all have”. These are the words in a scene in the TV series,
Homeland, that depicts two characters — Saul, who is one of the aides to the
American President Keane, and Sam Paley, a senator who has been a constant
infuriating thorn on the side of the American president. In
this scene, Saul presents Senator Paley with irrefutable evidence outlining a
Russian conspiracy. The evidence involves pictures of people’s faces and the
role they have been manipulated to play by the Russian political operatives.
With every descriptive picture he sees, the pompous Senator Paley becomes
increasingly deflated. What completely shocks him is his picture with the
description, UI. He turns and asks Saul what the letters mean, and Saul calmly
tells him, Useful Idiot. It is at this moment that Senator Paley confronts the
realisation that he is the titular Useful Idiot, who has all along been
manipulated and used by the Russian political operatives to impeach the American
President. Useful
Idiot is a term used in political discourse to describe a person who is a susceptible
propagandist for a cause or purpose whose goals they are not entirely aware of;
and are used cynically by the leaders of the cause. Useful Idiots unwittingly
support a cause which they naively believe to be a force for good. The
narrative on who should or should not succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2022
has gone up several decibels. Politicians and political operatives are
upstaging each other in public for a, ranging from harambees to funerals, and
commissioning of development projects, in their bid to persuade the masses on
who should be the immanent or precluded presidential flag bearer in 2022. Political
pundits have theorised that the plausibility of the positions expressed, is
contingent on the bearer of the statement. This is why the sentiments recently
expressed by the latest entrant into this narrative, Jubilee vice chairman
David Murathe, and perceived to be at the heart of President Kenyatta’s inner
circle, has raised the tempo across various political cabals, because it is
widely speculated that his position accurately reflects that of the President. Murathe
said Deputy President William Ruto should retire from active politics in 2022.
His position was reinforced by the party’s secretary general, Raphael Tuju, who
said in a televised interview that it is only the National Delegates Conference
that has powers to decide the party’s presidential flag bearer. This
essentially renders the unwritten MoU of having Ruto as the automatic
presidential flag bearer, impotent. Rejoinders
to these two statements have transcended to social media, where keyboard
activists have boldly made known their support or opposition on the ongoing
debate. Sadly, however, the finality and conviction with which we make our
opinions public is quite characteristic of the ad hominem fallacy that has
pervaded our national discourses at each turn. The
ad hominem argument is where we attack someone’s character rather than counter
their argument with facts and logic. This is quite pervasive on Twitter and in
the comments section of online stories. The ad hominem argument is a tool our
politicians and political operatives have become so adept at using because it
causes us to inadvertently fight their proxy wars in the name of political
support. Subsequently, we unknowingly become Useful Innocents. Useful Innocents
are misguided and confused sympathizers whose ignorance more frequently begets
confidence, than does knowledge. This
was demonstrated in January last year, when college students in New York were
asked by Campus Reform – an American news watchdog focused on the higher
education system — to react to quotes from President Donald Trump’s State of
the Union address. The students gave heartfelt, passionate and well-considered
responses that universally rejected President Trump’s ideas and expressed how
they would lead to war and the subjugation of women. But there was only one
problem: It was one week before Trump gave his first SOTU address, and all the
quotes were from President Barack Obama’s 2016 SOTU speech. Complete
ignorance by Useful Idiots and Useful Innocents does nothing to stop us from
forming opinions and being dead certain about them. We have preferred orthodoxy
rather than facts. We have believed in having the ‘right’ opinion rather than
having a viewpoint based on thought and research. Additionally,
we have become so comfortable in our groupthink, which makes us even more
confident of our opinions, especially when they align with those of our
in-group preferences. This has made us the ideal susceptible victims of
political manipulation. And it is just the state that our politicians and
political operatives would like us to remain. Begs
the question, are those endorsing or invalidating Ruto’s presidential ambitions
Useful Idiots or Inner Circle confidants? And since we do not know if they are
being played, why do we, the Useful Innocents, make our political leadership
choices based on their endorsements? Are we incapable of making those choices
without being coerced, cajoled or threatened through fear? Have we become so
inured to our divisive politics so much so that we experience an analysis
paralysis when we encounter political candidates that are outside of our
ingroup preferences? I
submit that politicians and political operatives have successfully conditioned
us to believe some sort of grand conspiracy exists with every election cycle.
In the process, we have ceded our power of choice over to them thus becoming
infantilised. We
have regarded politics as another sport, where we pick our favourite team and
defend it — not out of a sense of principle, but out of a misguided sense of
loyalty. What we have chosen to care about is winning at all costs and neglected
to care about what happens after the election, so long as our opponents are
kept out of power. Ironically, we then incessantly complain about unmet
expectations until the next election period where we relapse into the same
conditioning. Finally,
my unsolicited advice is that our political bickering is far from over, and it
will not be until we demand better from our politicians and political
operatives. And the first step in demanding better of them, is to demand better
of ourselves by refusing to be Useful Innocents. Belief can be manipulated. Only knowledge is
dangerous - Frank
Herbert 