National Land Commission chairman Mohammed Swazuri on Thursday revealed that 20 acres of the Mama Ngina Water Front Park in Mombasa have been grabbed. The entire parcel of land, which was reserved by the government in the 1970s was 26 acres, according to Swazuri. That means 76 per cent of the land has since been grabbed. President Uhuru Kenyatta commissioned a Sh460 million regeneration of the Mama Ngina Water Front on Monday. During the function, Mombasa governor Hassan Joho told Uhuru that two parcels of land at Mama Ngina Water Front Park had been grabbed. The President issued a directive to the Ministry of Lands and the NLC to ensure that the parcels of lands are returned to the public within five months. Read: Mama Ngina Drive to attain international standards after facelift Swazuri on Thursday told journalists that 13 individuals and companies were irregularly allocated the 20 acres between 1985 and 2012. He issued a 90-day notice to the 13 title holders to vacate the land. "The total acreage for the Mama Ngina Water Front gardens is 26 acres, but on 20 acres have illegally been hived off. However, they have not been developed, it is still on paper," Swazuri said. He said two plots, identified as Plot 408 and 1018, which are about two acres in total have been fenced off by the grabbers. "The Mombasa county government and the police should make sure the two walls around those parcels of land are brought down immediately," said Swazuri. The Plot 408 is next to Aga Khan School and 1018 is next to the Coast Police Headquarters. Swazuri toured the parcel of land accompanied by Mombasa Lands executive Edward Nyale and deputy county commissioner Mohammed Salim. He said they will publish a notice with all the names of the grabbers in all local dailies on Tuesday. Swazuri said 13 parcels, not two as Joho had said, had been grabbed. Swazuri said the regeneration will go on as planned. "The project will go on as planned because this is government land. Those who were illegally allocated land here must leave," he said. Related: I was labelled mad man for fighting for Mama Ngina Drive – Khalifa Click here for the latest political news