Political analyst Mutahi Ngunyi has explained why he believes the Kikuyu community is 'behaving erratically' ahead of 2022 election. "Kikuyus will be out of power for 30 years after 2022. This explains their erratic behaviour. They have to prepare for the next 30 years in just 36 months," he said via Twitter on Monday evening. "And if they betray Deputy President William Ruto, the valley Kikuyus will vote independent of the mountain Kikuyus." The simmering rebellion against Ruto in Central Kenya seems to be gathering momentum after top leaders from the region openly accused him of sponsoring attacks against President Uhuru Kenyatta. A number of lawmakers from the region have, in the recent days, had ugly altercations with Uhuru over what they claimed is a systematic starving of the area of projects yet it overwhelmingly voted for him in both 2013 and 2017 polls. Former presidential candidate and Justice minister Martha Karua launched a scathing attack on Ruto. She accused him of using proxies to clandestinely throw tantrums at the President. More on this: Mt Kenya politicians attack Ruto, defend Uhuru as rifts within Jubilee party widen Read: Mt Kenya leaders warn against plot to sabotage Uhuru-Raila pact STOP TRIBALISM Ngunyi's post elicited criticism from all quarters as his followers asked him to shun tribalism and instead embrace togetherness. "Kikuyus have not been in power, if they were they would all be rich as Kenyattas and Kibakis," @PeteroMaina said. He went on, "As you know, they are all filthy rich. In other words, please refer to people by their names. I'm yet to see someone who steals or makes money for someone else. They are individuals, not a community." "This bait of tribal affiliation, its days are numbered. Though our pace of learning is slow, be sure we are learning and soon we won't vote based on tribe. So if you still think in terms of tribe, soon you will find yourself in the cold. We are learning," @musembi_njoroge @charleskaris said "Wrong, it won't matter who'll be in power after @UKenyatta the Presidency does not define power, otherwise, @RailaOdinga would be irrelevant politically." "Define a strategy for your friend @WilliamsRuto instead of engaging in psychological political wars. Plse visit the villages." @muthiora_gitau said, "It doesn't matter which tribe a leader comes from but what they do for Kenyans. A thief is a thief regardless of their tribe." "It's individuals who have been in power not Kikuyus," @PaulGichiah said. Ethnicity has played a big role in who makes it to the presidency in Kenya. With more than 40 tribes and competition for political seats, most Kenyans get behind candidates from their ethnic groups. The five largest ethnic groups - the Kikuyu, Luhya, Kalenjin, Luo and Kamba - make up nearly 70 per cent of the country's 48 million population, according to the last population census in 2009. Most of the leaders playing an important role in deciding the outcome of the election come from these tribes. Two days ago, the President said the future of Kenya as a nation where there is no tribalism is being moulded by its youth who are rejecting the ways of the older generations. He praised young Kenyans who respect and tolerate those they study or work with without any influence of ethnic prejudices. The President said Kenyans should celebrate their different cultures instead of seeing them as barriers to their friendship and unity. More on this: Uhuru calls on the youth to reject tribalism Click here for the latest political news