The 1999 National League Champions Kenya Prisons have been compelled to go back to the drawing board after losing three of their key boxers to Defence Forces Amateur Boxing Association outfit better known as Defaba. In an interview, Prisons’ coach Maurice ‘Kawata’ Maina admitted that he has no choice but to recruit heavily from the national Novices and Intermediates which will kick off the 2019 season. “Currently our team is depleted and as much as we would want to box competitively this season, we have to look far and wide. The only downside is that unlike in the past, there are fewer employment opportunities,” he said. Prisons middleweight Eric Otengo, bantamweight Steve Ndungu and lightweight Peter have since joined Defaba. Maina said Moses Kalabuka formerly of Kariobangi will be preferred in light-flyweight. The first choice flyweight is veteran Harrison Mathuku. “Mathuku has since dipped in form and as such we have to look for a standby boxer in the weight division. He has not been very sharp in training,” added Maina, who is a 1987 All Africa Games gold medalist in Nairobi. Maina revealed that the bantamweight division has remained vacant after Sylvester Okello joined the Prisons Training College in Ruiru. “Okello has passed out from the college but once he is back, we consider him for flyweight to help Mathuku,” said Maina. The tactician said Okello is an astute student of the game with great hooks and jabs. Riziki Francis, who has been with the warders for two seasons and racked up good wins will occupy the lightweight while Anthony Maina, who is civilian, will take up the light welter position. Julius Atito, formerly of Githurai, will be the top choice in heavyweight division. All has not been well with Prisons following the exit of their top boxers among them Olympians Bernard Ngumba, Aziz Ali and Rayton Okwiri. Prisons also lost former long standing heavyweight Kenya international Daniel Shisia, who retired alongside Ngumba. Okwiri and Aziz joined paid rank. The 2019 boxing calendar start with Novices at the Charter Hall on February 6-9. This will be followed by the intermediates in Thika on March 6-9. Nakuru Madison Square Garden will play host to the first leg of the league on May 8-11. The National League ends with the fifth leg in Kisumu in November. The national trials for the All Africa games will take place from April 17-20 at the Charter Hall in Nairobi.