That love is blind is a widely embraced perception, signifying the ability of passion to lead one to act against logic and basic manners. This perhaps explains a conflict of passion that ended in the death of the two-year-old daughter of a couple in Nairobi’s Ruai suburb. The man, 23, only named as Mwangi, and the woman, 22, had domestic disagreement from Wednesday last week. The quarrel was all about the woman’s use of social media. Their landlady, Leah Wanjiru, said she heard the woman scream on Thursday night. She woke her husband and they rushed to the couple’s house to help. “We got there and I held the man’s hand, pulled him out so I could ask him what was happening,” she said. “He told me the woman has been on phone the whole of Wednesday night and Thursday, even in the night.” When Mwangi confronted her, she got agitated and started fighting him. He fought back, prompting her to scream, Wanjiru told the Star. Wanjiru said as she spoke to Mwangi, the woman suddenly hit him with a stone on the forehead, rupturing the tissue and causing heavy bleeding. “After first aid, I advised him to record a statement with the police,” she said, adding that she also advised the couple to separate as they solved their conflict. On Friday morning, Mwangi told her that the woman had taken off. “The lady told her husband her brother-in-law wanted to rent her a better house somewhere else. She did not disclose where,” the landlady said. Later in the day, the man sent a text message to the woman, asking her to go get her dead child in the house. The woman returned in the evening and found the lifeless body of her daughter in their one room mabati house. The child was strangled using a leso and her private part was swollen. The woman reported the incident to Ruai police station. Wanjiru said the couple had been together for barely three months. They had moved into one of her rental houses on Wednesday last week and had been there for two days before the incident. “I had not even known them. They moved in and paid me Sh800, pending Sh200 they owe me for the rent,” she said. A police source at the station said they are investigating the matter - a crime of passion. The man alleged to have killed the child is on the run.