ODM party leader Raila Odinga has hit out at airport officials over corruption, which puts off tourists. "Kama watalii wanakuja humu Kenya. Huko kwa kiwanja bidhaa zao zinakaguliwa. Mtu anafungua sanduku yako anaona umenunua bidhaa ya familia yako (When tourists come to Kenya, their goods are inspected and found to have items bought for their families," Raila said. "...Wanaona suruali ya watoto wako hata bikini ya bibi yako.Unambiwa ati fungua sanduku. Unaulizwa hii ni nini na umetoa wapi. Mara wapi yellow card? Hali ya mazingira ya ndege inafanya watu wasikuja hapa Kenya (They find children's inner wear and women's bikinis. They are told to open their suitcases and are asked where they got the items from. If it's not being asked for a yellow card, it's something else. The airport environment makes toruists avoid Kenya)." Raila spoke during the commissioning of Mama Ngina drive in Mombasa on Monday. President Uhuru Kenyatta, Tourism CS Najib Balala, Mombasa governor Hassan Joho were among those present. Kenya’s earnings from tourism rose by almost a third in 2018 from Sh119 billion to Sh157.4 billion, a 37 per cent increase. Raila said corruption has eaten up Kenya's tourism industry and has to be dealt with. "Hawa watu lazima waende pale Dubai waone vile vitu zinafanywa...mara toa kitu kidogo...unaingia kwa hoteli ndio hiyo kwa nightclub ndio hiyo.. (These people should o to Dubai and see how things are done instead of asking for bribes at the hotels and night clubs)," he said. On arrival at JKIA, officials usually check all luggage and sometimes ask travellers to open their suitcases. Raila further noted that Kenya has an environment that is favourable for growth in earnings. "Tunalia hapa ya kuwa SGR imemaliza kazi hapa.. kazi ambayao SGR imemaliza tunaweza kujenga kupitia kibarani na kiwanja ya ndege. Tuko na mazingira mzuri ambayo tunafaa tutumie (We are crying that SGR finished its work here. But we can use that for plane paths. We have a good environment which we can use)," he said. In December, Joho said he is not against the standard gauge railway but has a problem with the way the project was implemented. He said it was forced on Kenyans, and many people in Mombasa lost their jobs. Joho was giving his views to the Building Bridges Initiative Task Force during a public forum in Mombasa. More on this: I don't oppose SGR, but our people lost jobs, Joho tells handshake team Click here for the latest political news