The National Police Service has launched its Digital Human Resource Information System amid efforts to digitise its operations. The launch will see the service digitise its administrative procedures, the Occurrence Book and the Crime Management System. Speaking during the launch in Kilifi county on Monday, Interior CS Fred Matiang'i said this is the first time that such platform has been created in the history of the service. The system will embed all levels of the National Police Service which includes the Administration Police, Kenya Police and the Department of Criminal Investigations. "Police officers must embrace technology to keep pace with the evolution of crime, as we strive to provide first-class services. Change has come, and it requires that we have a responsible and responsive police service," Matiang'i said. The CS said the new system aims at infusing accountability, efficiency, honesty and professionalism among officers as part of the ongoing police reforms. "This system will bear accurate, real-time data on each officer, including their recruitment, training, career progress, deployment, family records, and other related information," Matiang'i said. He said the system will further enhance the ability of the National Police Service to share local information and intelligence within the security fraternity on a national and international scale. Matiang'i said the system supports the selection, recruitment and management of police officers, deployment, performance appraisals, merit-based promotions and transparent transfers. “This system now gives the Inspector General a bird’s eye view of the National Police Service, making it easy to identify vacancies and the skills needed to fill in these vacancies. We’re beginning to institute meritocracy over nepotism. It’s no longer about who you know, but, what you know,” Matiang’i said. The CS said the launch will play a key role in protecting files to all the serious cases hence curbing incidences of missing files. “The disappearance of records will soon be a thing of the past as all Occurrence Books at police stations will also be digitised in due course. We will also be able to monitor how a case is moving, from the investigative officer to its logical conclusion,” he said. Read: New system will help stop crooked cops The Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet said the system brings fairness in the police disciplinary process. Boinnet said a police officer’s track record will contribute significantly to investigating allegations of misconduct from members of the public or internally. “A system like this provides supervisors with a way of dealing with rewards and discipline in a sober manner. A police officer’s work will speak for itself and determine a cause of action,” he said. The IG said the migration from a manual to a digital system is a testament to the National Police Service’s commitment towards transparency and accountability. Read Also: Boinnet to scrap 12 top offices in reforms Boinett said members of the public should expect to receive better service when the Criminal Management System is digitised. Some of the information the Human Resource Information System will capture includes each officer’s biometric data, certificate of appointment, national identity card details, KRA PIN, family background, academic qualifications, rank, and service history. Boinett said this information will be digitally available in the first quarter of the year. Click here for the latest political news