The fact that the air is thick with outlandish promises and sweet-sounding, seductive untruths tells me that 2019 is an election year here in South Africa. Though the campaigns have barely begun, already the gloves are off. The Opposition parties have started throwing mud at the ruling African National Congress (ANC) in the hopes that some of it will stick. And the ANC is shielding itself with its “fresh new” leader President Cyril Ramaphosa, who is leading his first election as President after taking over from the toxic Jacob Zuma in February last year. The date hasn’t been set yet — it is the President’s “secret weapon” — but even then, only inasmuch as constitutionally permissible. The last general election here was on May 7, 2014, and so Parliament expires on May 6, 2019. The President is obliged to call the election within 90 days of the dissolution or term expiry of the National Assembly. Therefore, if Parliament runs its course to May 6, then the poll must be held by August 4. In that perspective, the election date isn’t really much of a secret weapon. At this election, South African voters get to pick their representatives at the provincial legislatures and their MPs from party lists (a list of candidates supplied by the party) and not directly, as Kenyans do. This is because the system here is one of proportional representation, which means allocating seats in direct proportion to the number of votes the party received. This, in turn, means voters can only vote for political parties and not individuals. The President is then elected by the National Assembly and, in essence, this means the leader of the largest party in the House becomes President. Between now and the day the President actually calls the election, South Africans are going to hear all sorts of sweet promises from their political parties. The parties will be careful to only promise things that can, in the words of the Burt Bacharach song, “lead to joy, hope and love”, and only the hardest-hearted and most cynical of voters will see these promises as things that “can just destroy a life” or “take all the joy from life”, to quote Bacharach again. In my view, all politicians lie. They lie so much that they even came up with a phrase to soften the blow of their untruths, preferring to say that they were just being economical with the truth. In Kenya, I recall President Moi once compared campaigning politicians to courting couples who tell sweet-sounding lies to accomplish their not necessarily noble ambitions. Then there was the late President George Bush’s soundbite from his 1988 nomination acceptance speech, when he promised the American people no new taxes and asked them to “read my lips”. Two years later, he had to raise taxes and in the 1992 election campaign, Bill Clinton (himself a most competent liar - “I did not have sexual relations with that woman”) used it to cast doubts on Bush’s trustworthiness. It’s a game of lies for them, but we the voters need to figure out whose lies we can live with.