A few weeks ago, in this column and well before
anybody predicted the results of the DRC presidential election, I argued that
provisional results from various observer missions showed Felix Tshisekedi was
the leading candidate. He is from the Union for Democracy and Social Progress
(UDPS). This could also be corroborated from the Electoral Commission's
provincial data obtained as votes were counted and made known to political
party agents. My article was based on results from all
the provinces collected by various observer missions and a group of scholars
who have followed DRC politics leading to these elections. Indeed, several
opinion polls taken in the DRC and by experts in the US had consistently put Tshisekedi
in the lead for the last three years. I was, therefore, surprised to see French
and Belgian sources catapulting Martin Fayulu from single digit popularity a
few months ago to over 40 per cent support a week or so before the election.
Not surprising, and keeping to their aim of "popularising" Fayulu at
all costs, the French and the Belgians, relying entirely on the evidence from
the Catholic Church in the DRC, insisted that the National Electoral Commission
had wrong results and the true results, showing Fayulu as the leading
candidate, were in the hands of the Catholics. I would have been happier were the
Belgians and the French more nuanced in their arguments in support of a Fayulu
win. It is interesting to note that well before the Electoral Commission
announced the official results, nobody, except the Catholic Church and myself,
had said anything about who might have won the election. My article was very
specific: I gave evidence showing Tshisekedi was the leading candidate. The
Catholics, fearing a breach of the DRC election laws, but nonetheless issuing a
"veiled threat" against the Electoral Commission, argued that their
data showed "a winning candidate", which the Commission was not to
betray by issuing a contrary result. I found this underhand intimidation of the
Commission rather unfortunate. The Church's partisanship was quickly revealed
when Fayulu declared the Commission's figures as telling "half truth"
and the Catholic Church as the only institution that has the "real
truth" following the results based on samples taken from across the DRC.
Be that as it may. Supposing the Electoral Commission had announced Fayulu the
winner and the Church had announced Tshisekedi the winner, what would Fayulu had
said about the position of the church? Methinks it is fair, at this point to take
a position which would be helpful to the Congolese people as a whole and not
just to candidates or individual political parties. In this regard, I take
exception to an article appearing in the January 15, 2019 issue of the Financial Times
pushing for a Fayulu win, again based entirely on the position taken by the
Catholic Church but arguing that evidence was taken from the database of the
Electoral Commission. The Financial Times provides two
conflicting figures for Fayulu. One that he won by 59.4 per cent based on some
large database FT analysed. The other is that he won by 62.8 per cent based on
the database from the Electoral Commission. The FT does not confirm, from its
own expertise of electoral practices in any known democracy proven in social
science literature, where the truth is likely to fall. Further, it would have been interesting to
know whether the FT took interest in any other candidates. Like the church,
FT's attention on the election results in the DRC is focussed on one issue: To
demonstrate that Fayulu won the election. If this is the case, then many more
people are likely to come up with equally well-presented figures from the
Electoral Commission showing other candidates have rightful claims to having
won the presidential election. Let us not forget the fact that, except in
apartheid South Africa and a few places in Anglophone Africa such as Kenya of
the 1970s to 1990s, the Church has largely played a very conservative role in this
continent. The link between the Catholic Church in Africa and the colonial
powers in Europe, including the Papal Sea, is nothing new. The fact that Belgium would still like to
reclaim King Leopold's lost empire in Central Africa must not be taken lightly.
And the Catholic Church, as an institution, has never taken a stand against
this. Much more significant in this regard is
the role played by the "raw commodity hunters" and "raw mineral
diggers" in perpetuating political instability and authoritarian rule in
Africa. Formerly weak colonial powers such as
Belgium easily fall prey to these primitive accumulators since an unstable DRC
is easier to exploit — or literally rape — in terms of the raw harvest of her
mineral resources — than a well governed, stable, secure, NATIONAL democratic
and developmental DRC. So the Financial Times should not, at this
time, tell the DRC to recount her election results when it has dismissed the
very institution in charge of doing this — The Electoral Commission. This is
even more dangerous when the Financial Times, like the Catholic Church, both
decide to speak ex cathedra in telling the Congolese people that the results by
these two "interested parties" are the only true and dependable
results. This is a recipe for chaos. Let us all accept that the conditions in
the DRC makes it very difficult for holding a free and fair election as we
would expect in Kenya, Nigeria or Ethiopia. Infrastructure is a problem. The
capacity of the state is another. The mechanics of running an election still
remain problematic. But all this does not excuse the DRC
government to deny the people the vote when, against all these odds, the people
still got out of their way to vote this last December. Kabila's government still stand accused of
having done its best to make life difficult for all opposition candidates
during these elections. While on the campaign trail I did not hear any
complaints, either from the Catholics or their European comrades, that Kabila
was favouring Tshisekedi. It is only after the results that the conspiracy
theory was constructed to justify a rigged election against Fayulu. To be fair, let all players cut their
losses and capitalise on their gains in putting together a broad national
democratic coalition to stabilise the DRC, deal with issues of insecurity and
safeguard national unity so as to give development a chance. The Electoral
Commission, notwithstanding its weaknesses, has given presidential election
results very much in keeping with past opinion polls. Felix Tshisekedi, the
winning candidate, has accepted to discuss the formation of such a government
by all parties concerned. It would be useful to give this proposal a
chance for a fixed period of time while the DRC's capability and capacity of
conducting a democratic election is built.   