Stylish pastor Robert Burale has come out to set the record straight on his failed marriage, baby mama and why he is abstaining after it failed 5-years ago. "I was not ready to marry when I met my daughter's mum," Burale told Massawe Japanni on Radio Jambo, adding, "My daughter Lexy is now 13 years, and I met her mother when I was still a bad boy and I was not ready to settle down in marriage," he said. Although little is known about the baby mama, Burale says they are in good terms as co-parents. "You have to understand that once you have a baby with someone, the connection will never die, you will be judged by God because of that child if they don't get good parenting. The communication is always about the child and not the mother and that is why I condemn those men who impregnate women and abandon them," he said. Five years ago, Pastor Burale changed his ways and was ready to settle down. He met his ex-wife Rozinah Mwakideu at a gospel concert in 2012. "She has the voice of an angel. We courted for five months and then got married in the same year. Everybody said we were rushing it but we were in love, in hindsight, we should have listened. We dated, courted, paid dowry and got married all within five months. Her parents were okay," he explained. However, the two were never meant to be. "My marriage lasted for a year and two days. When a marriage is broken, everyone must have played their part in making it fail because no one is perfect," he said Earlier on, in an interview, Rozinah said the marriage with the pastor failed because he was deep in debt and lied about it. “I would receive calls now and then from people and police saying Robert had unsettled debts,” she told Massawe on Radio Jambo. Unbeknown to her, most of Robert’s income was going towards settling debts. “I kept waiting hoping he would change. The main reason I left was after my friend came to visit me and after she left she wanted to sue him for defaulting on a debt. I couldn’t handle that pressure plus other personal issues,” she said The stylish pastor did not address the above allegations but chose to instead comment on his claims that he has been celibate ever since the marriage broke down, five years ago. "By the Grace of God, I have managed to abstain. Only a fool sits on fire and expects not their bum to get burned. You avoid situations that will take you that way. People and even pastors out there said that I was lying. I hide under God because I am not an old man and I don't look bad," he said. He, however, admitted that he get advances from women but he has to honour himself on how to react on the advances.