Police are investigating three foreigners accused of committing indecent acts with women including underage girls in Kilifi. The two Germans and a Turkey national have been living in Kenya and police suspect they have been luring young girls into having sexual escapades and recording videos before sharing them online. The Germans, Zerbin Waldemar and Wectabe Shestavets, were arraigned in Shanzu on Thursday. They were accused of forcibly undressing a girl (Y.M) before taking nude photos and videos of her. The suspects denied the charges before Shanzu principal magistrate David Odhiambo who released them on a Sh100,000 bond. They were also ordered to surrender their passports to the police. A police report states that the girl met Waldemar on Tinder dating site and they exchanged contacts. They agreed to have a date, and Waldemar shared his location with the girl at Kenya medical apartment through Google maps. The girl told the police she met Shestavets at Waldemar’s apartment and he them drinks and food. “When I wanted to leave, the two told me I couldn't without having sex because I had eaten their food," she said. The report said the girl fought with the men who forcibly undressed her and were taking videos and photos of her naked body. Some of the videos from the two men's phones show explicit videos of different women. Police said after reviewing evidence before them, they will be amending the charge sheet and the accused will face more charges. In another case, a Turkish man, Osman Elsek was arrested and detained at Kijipwa police station for allegedly defiling three minors. Elsek was arrested on Wednesday night after a raid at his Kikambala home by the Kilifi police. Three girls aged between 12 and 16 years were found at the house of the businessman. A senior police privy to the investigations said they were interrogating the girls to know their backgrounds and how they went to the Turkish’s house. The police officer, who sought anonymity, also noted that various items including sexual lubricants were found at the suspect’s house. The police suspect Elsek has been sexually assaulting the girls. He is expected in court on Friday. Click here for the latest political news