Education is the weapon we can use to change the world. But this can only be possible when there is quality education and qualified teachers. Indeed there is a shortage of teachers in the country, but I don't believe we have to lower the grade for those seeking to join teacher training colleges. We did this before when there was a push for affirmative action to end a deficit of nurses in the country, but it didn't work. Once trained, most of the people from the marginalised areas, do not go back, they opt for jobs in urban areas. To ensure affirmative action in these places, a C plain would do. There is no demonstrable evidence that students from the said areas have gone back to teach in their villages. My concern is that education is becoming a big deal since we are training a calibre of young people to fit in the needs of the 21st Century. We, therefore, cannot employ strategies of the 19th Century to achieve this. Kenya should not, in this age, talk about training teachers with poor grades. Like in other countries, say Finland, one cannot teach pupils in a primary school, if he or she doesn't have a masters degree. Pupils need relevant, appropriate, and quality education. I don't think the ministry should be in the business of reducing, they should, instead, raise the grades to enhance quality. TSC is also slow in upgrading teachers who have graduated with degrees. It should incentivise teachers so that they study more. Even students with As should be encouraged to teach. This is possible if the compensation is attractive. Why take D+ students when you have graduate teachers? Graduate teachers can teach in primary schools. This is the kind of reforms we should be talking about. You cannot compromise quality just to get enough numbers in colleges for the short-term. If TSC today says that by 2030, we want all our teachers to have diplomas and degrees, they can. It is possible with a good curriculum. Let us also not shy away from admitting teaching students to universities. There is a lot of under-utilised space following the upgrade of most teacher colleges to universities. The talk of not getting enough candidates for classes, therefore, does not hold. At the same time, if teachers are paid well, even students with As in KCSE will not think twice about joining teacher training colleges.  The former Education PS spoke to the Star   