A Bomet Catholic priest has warned President Uhuru Kenyatta against being misled into remaining in power after completing his two terms. Father Ambrose Kimutai of Segemik parish told Uhuru to ignore calls from some quarters to be given a powerful position in government after 2022. He said he should instead retire honorably as constitutionally required. The priest who was addressing the press in Bomet noted he was aware of several attempts by some leaders in the country keen on having him to continue clinging to power through a constitutional amendment. “We know of influential people in government and even outside keen on having President Uhuru to stay in power after 2022 through a change in constitution by creating a Prime Minister’s post or through a parliamentary system,” he said. He pointed out that Uhuru has already left a legacy in the years he has been in power and it will be foolhardy for him to spoil it by going for another position after his term in 2022. Cotu boss Francis Atwoli is among individuals in the country who have publicly said Uhuru was still young hence he should be given another position as soon as he retires. Kimutai at the same time hit out the Jubilee party officials-David Murathe and Raphael Tuju-over their recent remarks that Deputy President William Ruto was not the automatic candidate for the party in 2022. He said the duo should respect the fact that Uhuru and Ruto alone united to form Jubilee and so they should not speak as if the party belongs to them. He also told the duo to respect the DP and avoid disparaging and seemingly humiliating him. While asking the duo to desist from further making the remarks, the clergy warned that such comments might ignite unnecessary breach of peace in the country. “It is not news that the DP has no debt with any community in fact he has publicly stated and so the duo should cease creating unnecessary debates,” he said. He stated that in 2022 DP Ruto will submit himself just like any other presidential candidate and it will upon Kenyans to decide for themselves who their next president will be.