Nairobi governor Mike Sonko on Friday restructured his cabinet. He presented names to be vetted for various dockets and forwarded them to the office of the speaker of the Nairobi assembly. Sonko was also expected to fill the deputy governor post but said Nasa showed interest and asked him to nominate Rahab Wangui. “I was ready with the name, but I received a request from Nasa that in the spirit of the handshake I should consider Wangui for the position,” Sonko said in Kilifi. “This is, therefore, to inform you that I shall not be forwarding the deputy governor nominee that I had chosen.” He said he will nominate a suitable deputy governor after consultations. During the 2017 General Election, Wangui was the Wiper candidate for the woman representative in Nairobi. She served as the vice chairperson of Maendeleo ya Wanawake – Nairobi chapter. Wangui had also worked as the senior programme officer at Plan International — a charity organisation. Read: Sonko, Ouko trade blame over ‘diverted’ bursaries The seat has been vacant for one year after former Deputy Governor Polycarp Igathe resigned in January last year. A letter addressed to Sonko from Nasa said Wangui is academically and professionally well-grounded and has vast experience in management of public affairs. But Sonko said inasmuch as he respected the handshake, he had to consult so he can nominate a suitable deputy. Kiambu medical superintendent Dr Stella Bosire has been nominated as Health executive. Winfred Kathangu will head the Finance docket. Pauline Kahiga, who is the acting county secretary and Urban Planning chief officer, has been nominated as the Public Service executive. Sonko nominated Lucia Mulwa to head Education and Sanjeev Kaur for the Environment docket. Allan Igambi will be in charge of the Trade department. He was serving in the Finance docket. Newton Munene who headed the Trade docket has been moved to the E-Government (ICT) department. Larry Wambua will now take charge of the water docket, which has been joined with Agriculture. He was Water and Environment executive. Charles Kerich and Mohammed Dagane have retained their positions as Lands and Transport executives, respectively. If Kahiga’s nomination to the Public Service Management gets approved, the county secretary post will remain vacant. To be tabled in February Acting Nairobi speaker Chege Mwaura on Friday told the Star his office had received the list of the nominees. “Unless I get a formal request for a special sitting, the nominees will have to wait until we resume in February. The names will be communicated and tabled in the assembly and will be forwarded to specific committees whereby a vetting date will be set,” he said. “After the vetting process, reports will be done and brought back to the floor, where members will either approve or reject the nominees.” Read also: I'm not scared, Sonko says over ex CEC Ouko's alleged dossier Click here for
the latest political news