The exit of experienced Gor Mahia midfielder Humprey Mieno has been described as a massive blow to the club’s pursuit to advance further in the Caf Confederations Cup. The widely traveled and versatile player completed a two-year long move on Monday to Ethiopian giants St George’s FC, re-uniting with his former coach at Azam FC Stewart Hall and Harambee Stars first choice goalkeeper Patrick Matasi. Mieno was reported to be in negotiations with the Ethiopian club last month although Gor vehemently refuted claims that they had been approached for negotiations and even threatened to report what they termed as unprofessionalism by St. George’s to Fifa. His omission in a number of matches despite being a regular starter last season fueled more speculations on his exit which came to pass this week. The three-time Kenyan Premier League winner and former Kenyan international’s midfield maestro attracted St George’s owing to his experience at both club and national level. According to the club’s deputy secretary general, Ronald Ngala, Mieno’s move will deprive the club experience especially in the continental matches. He, however, tipped the budding midfielders to replace him. Last season, Mieno was among the best midfielders in the continent after recording more than three assists. This was despite being largely used as a makeshift defender and an holding midfielder. “It’s official Mieno has left for Ethiopia with our blessings but it’s a big blow in our Caf matches. He is an experienced player and we will dearly miss his services. However, we could not block him from pursuing greener pastures. “I believe we have young and talented players who will fill his void.” Ngala revealed plans of merging their preparations for the forthcoming playoff return leg and the SportPesa Cup. Gor will put their slim home 2-1 win on the line when they play New Stars de Doula in the return leg this weekend in Yaoundé before crossing to Tanzania for the SportPesa Cup where they head as defending champions. “We have merged our preparations for both assignments and it is our hope that once we finish our match in Cameroon, the team will head straight to Tanzania for the SportPesa Cup.”