The ban on disco matanga in Kilifi county has not been fully enforced and police are using them to solicit bribes to look the other way. Sauti ya Wanawake, a Ganze subcounty based organisation that tries to curb early pregnancies, says the ban is selectively enforced. Residents said the ban has turned into a cash cow for police officers who demand as much as Sh10,000 per night to allow disco equipment owners to operate at night. “Any homestead that has a police officer or anyone working in government will be allowed to play disco at night but if there is no officer in your home then you will not play disco,” organisation chairwoman Judith Uchi said. The ban was introduced by Interior CS Fred Matiang’i in December last year to curb early pregnancies. Matiang’i banned them from 11pm to 6am; the county banned them from 6am to 6pm.They have been banned elsewhere in the country. Last year, more than 13,000 schoolgirls were pregnant in Kilifi. Disco matanga were largely blamed because of alcohol, drugs and sex. Outgoing County Police Commander Fredrick Ochieng’ has denied police officers are being bribed to allow disco matanga. He said the ban is still on but is not being enforced effectively. “We agreed with chiefs and deputy county commissioners to notify the nearest OCS if they see any homestead assembling disco equipment so we can stop them before they start playing,” Ochieng’ said. “When we go there while disco is playing, there will be a lot of confrontation. The police will be creating a breach of peace. If you hear any disco playing, then the chief did not notify the police early enough. We are trying to avoid a confrontation between the police and the public,” he added. Police blame vested interests A senior county police admitted that enforcing the ban is difficult because most of the equipment are owned by government officers. “Some are owned by police and KDF officers. When you go to a homestead to stop the disco and confiscate the equipment, you get a call from your seniors instructing you to allow them play,”one officer said on condition of anonymity. Selective enforcement has also endangered chiefs as they supposed to take a lead role in enforcing the ban. Early this month, a chief was attacked in Kikambala when he led police to a homestead where disco matanga was being played. In December, another chief was stoned while riding his motorcycle following a speech he gave in Kaloleni at a funeral. He had told the mourners the ban was still in force. He fell from his motorbike and broke his arm. “Chiefs are determined to end this menace but of course when we get news of a disco we notify police to enforce the ban. Sometimes police tell residents that chief so and so old us there is disco here. Then we are seen as traitors. We have been rebuked and our lives are in danger,” said a chief who sought anonymity. Subcounty officers said the ban has hurt their relations with the community. “We normally hold meetings with the communities and tell them of the ban. Most people comply and those who do not comply are mostly government officials. “Sometimes we have physically tried to stop discos. But even before you seize the equipment you get a call from your seniors telling you to let them continue,” another officer said, requesting anonymity for fear of reprisals. Ganze MP Teddy Mwambire and his Kilifi North counterpart Owen Baya expressed concern that the ban has not been. “Mostly police blame politicians for not supporting the ban. Most political leaders have said no to disco matanga but it is shocking to hear disco played at night. If it’s a no let it be countywide,” Baya said. Many early pregnancies have occurred in Mwambire’s constituency. He urged the government to punish officers who allow discos at night. “We are losing a generation and we should do something,”Mwambire said. Kilifi county commissioner Magu Mutindika said the ban is not applied selectively and any officer who authorises disco matanga is doing it of his own volition. “I have personally not given any orders to any officers to issue a disco matanga permits. If there is any senior officer let the report reach me and I will act accordingly. Orders must be respected,” Mutindika said. Parents say their daughters are wasting their lives as they cannot continue with school after they get pregnant. Uchi said the discos are still operating under the watch of police officers who are sabotaging the move by the county government to curb early pregnancies. “There is no need of a ban that is not enforced. It is as if the ban was meant for the poor class and not everyone who owns the equipment. If there is no law to regulate the ban, the ban should be called off.