War is a continuation of politics by other
means,  General Carl von Clausewitz said
in the period after the Napoleonic Wars of 18th Century. The subject of war has occupied the minds
of great thinkers early as 5th Century BCE, with the accounts of
Thucydides on the Peloponnesian War of 431-404 BCE. Before the modern state
system as we know it today, territories, groups, kingdoms and other political
units acquired wealth and expansion of territory through war. This was the state of nature as described by Thomas
Hobbes that guided progress towards civilisation before the state was created.
It is out of this chaotic history, that a country like our very own Kenya is a
recognised state in the international system. “We” African states and other
colonial entities were however not directly involved in the process of state
making. Those who actually were at war made this decision for us. War is an important component of
statecraft. Charles Tilly, a scholar in the subject of statecraft observed, ”War made states, and states made war.” Tilly’s
observations were that; it is out of a warring process that civilised political
units emerged, particularly in Europe. These advanced political units emerged
out of the need for conscription of soldiers into the “armies”, tax bureaus
then emerged to collect money from the governed citizens so as to replenish the
“armies”, and administrative imperatives emerged, to govern the affairs of the
“militaries”. All these factors, combined with the civilianisation of
individuals shifted the monopoly of the use of violence to an autonomous unit,
which provided protection for the residents within its territorial boundaries. Since the decision to be a state was made
for colonial entities, including permanent boundaries inviolable by
international law standards, African countries, the majority of which gained
independence in the last five decade, have missed out on an important faction
of statecraft, war. Out of war, nations have been forced to innovate new
technologies to defend their peoples and territories. Out of war, governments
have learnt the art of making long-term strategy for their countries and their
people. They have developed advanced technologies to protect their
sovereignties. They have become industrially advanced. These are the nations
that have become great and important powers in the international arena. The
Germanys’, France, Belgium, China, Japan and “Russias” of this world. War
necessitated organised bureaucracies, created a sense of oneness among people,
a sense of purpose and identity. But all is not lost for African countries,
for the nature of war has changed coming into the 21st Century. Although the nature of war is no longer a
conventional affair between two or more regular armies, traditional principles
of war such as unity of command, objective, offensive, surprise and simplicity
are as effective today in fighting unconventional warfare. Unity of command, for
example, ensures a quick responsiveness to the instruments of war, particularly
weapons and personnel at the disposal of the officer in command. It also demands unifying and focusing of efforts by the different
security apparatus in attaining their objective, while at the same time
controlling and coordinating the efforts of non-military, non-security
agencies such as the emergency rescue and save efforts. This is a fundamental principle
of war, which has often been lacking in the way that Kenya security forces
dealt with past terror attacks such as the Westgate in September 2013. However, although the Westgate attack exposed the inexperience
of Kenyan security forces in the art of direct combat, it provided an
opportunity to learn and innovate better methods of countering similar threats. Today’s war on terror is an unconventional and the
principles that guide new forms of war have also changed. In the Military
Review journal of 2006, new principles of war are suggested as being; perceived
worthiness of the war, informed insight, strategic anchoring, durability, unity
of effect, adaptability, engagement dominance and culminating power. For
countries such as Kenya which have not had experiences in battle combat — other than recently in Somalia — it has
been a challenge to deal decisively with external threats. However, the
cycles of attacks, including the Garissa University shooting of April 2015, have been our battleground, and with it opportunities for our security
apparatus to experience and learn the art and science of war. The lessons have been
apparent in the response to Tuesday's 14 Riverside terrorist
attack, with time taken to manage the crisis decreasing from the Westgate’s
four days to16 hours. It marked improvement in time to respond to the
crisis, and indeed, a lower, but still unfortunate number of casualties. The organisation of the Special Forces from the start to the end was also commendable, a departure from the confusion in the chain of command that marred the response at Westgate. The war on terror is becoming the battle of the 21st
Century, and with it, opportunities to spur growth in strategic planning,
coordination and execution of the national security agenda of countries such as  Kenya, which have become targets of internal and external acts of terror.  The writer is a consultant at the Centre for International and Security Affairs 