The construction of a multibillion-shilling water project to benefit over 252,000 Mandera residents has started. It was launched yesterday by deputy governor Mohamed Arai, who described it as “a big milestone” in the county’s efforts to end the perennial water shortage. The Sh1.4 billion project will be completed in 18 months. It will benefit Mandera town and its environs. “I am happy to join the residents of Mandera as we hand over the project site and launch the works that will go a long way in quenching the thirst of Mandera people,” Arai said. On completion, the project will a godsend to women and children, who walk long distances in search of the precious commodity. “It is a milestone for us and we thank the national government for negotiating for resources that will finance this project. It is a life-changing project that our people have been yearning for over the years,” the deputy governor said. He said the county will continue partnering with both the national government and other stakeholders to ensure all Mandera residents get clean water. The system will cover the nine locations of Mandera including Koromei and Neboi wards - the most distant. A 316,820-metre pipeline will have been laid on completion. The project has a capacity to treat more than 16,000 cubic metres per day. Its storage capacity is 16,037 cubic metres with concrete underground tanks and elevated steel-pressed tanks. Kenya’s Constitution lists water as basic human right which should be available in adequate quantities. However, in northern Kenya counties, residents still walk far and wide in search of the commodity. Water provision is anchored in the sustainable development goals (number 6 ) which seeks to ensure access to safe and affordable drinking water for all. Last year in November, public health officials declared 13 wells in the northern Kenya county unsafe and contaminated. Only one well remained operational. Water scarcity in Mandera has led to private individuals transporting water by donkey carts and water bowsers. Nema officer Fatuma Maalim said Mandera lacks a liquid waste treatment plant. She said waste is dumped into the environment and finds its way into the water table and into wells, boreholes and rivers. In 2016 the Kenya Red Cross Society carried out a door-to-door public health campaign. Some 391,941 residents were trained on hygiene practices. Patients admitted in health centres were, on being discharged, given packages that included soap, buckets and water treatment chemicals.