A Cabinet Secretary has become subject of discussion among the staff. Reason? The CS is said to lead with an iron fist and deals with staff ruthlessly. According to those who have come under the wrath of the CS, the minister from Rift Valley at times even threatens to kill teasing them to "take the complaint to whichever office they think of". The CS who is said to have fired drivers is also on the wrong side with members of a committee in the National Assembly. A source in the Ministry has told corridors that anytime from now, they will petition President Uhuru Kenyatta to intervene. Even before the completion of a cathedral in Nyanza which for decades became a cash cow following numerous suspect fundraising activities towards its construction, another cash cow has been started in the name of building yet another cathedral in the new diocese. Church members under the new diocese are an angry lot, Reason? Two fundraisers have been conducted - on July with more than Sh2 million raised and Sh4 million on November- no foundation has been started yet another harambe is scheduled on February 2019. Members of congregation are questioning the whereabouts of the more than Sh6 million raised so far and delays in starting the construction of the new church. They have demanded for explanation and want the national head of the prominent church to intervene over the numerous fundraising that is milking them.They also questioned the integrity of the the bishop of the new diocese. Members are very angry with some vowing not to participate further in such harambes without transparency and accountability. An MP from Rift Valley has become a black sheep among his friends. According to one of his associates, the legislator has been using them to run propaganda against Deputy President William Ruto including generating his press statements. The man who is said to be receiving the funding from anti-DP forces however does not share the goodies with his associates. Just days to Christmas, the MP had promised the team something for celebrations but the man disappeared on the eve of December 25, and could not pick calls. Now the team, has vowed not to work with the vocal man. A vocal lawyer took to social media and issued a New Year message calling for brutal action against the corrupt. He went on to decry the plunder of public resources and taxpayers money. However, the good lawyer seems to have forgotten that his law firm contracted by a State parastatal has been captured in the audit reports showing that he has been invoicing the parastatal to pay millions of shillings despite not rendering any service.