In a bid to avert more disappointments in the SportPesa Premier League, returnees KCB have suspended their skipper Dennis Orenge and two of Franck Ouna’s assistants Elvis Ayany and Ezekiel Akwana—for alleged misconduct. The three are said to be responsible for the alleged disunity in the playing outfit and the technical bench. KCB were admitted back to the top flight league last year after three years in the cold and despite luring experienced players to their side and strengthening the technical bench, the bankers are yet to win a match in the opening five matches. The bankers’ poor start prompted the management to convene a meeting on December 31 as they sought to narrowing down to the root cause of the poor run. The club hired Ouna as the head coach after gaining promotion to the top tier and emoted Ayany to position of assistant coach. This was despite Ayany having tirelessly steered the club back to the top flight after his boss John Kamau had sacked with six matches to wrap the National Super League season. Akwana was roped in as the first assistant. The management established that Akwana and Ayany were culpable of the rift in the technical bench and were hence served with their suspension letters which bar them from executing their duties. The letters signed by the club’s chairman Azu Ogola read in part: “Our investigations have revealed that the KCB FC Technical bench is not working as a unit, which has contributed to the poor performance of the team. It has been noted with concern that you have contributed to this lack of unity. You are hereby suspended from the team.” Similarly, long serving captain Orenge was singled out for the rift in the playing unit and accused of inciting the players who guided the club to promotion against the new recruits. “It is noted that as the captain of the team, you failed in your responsibilities to unite the team and opted to incite the KCB’s older players against the new recruits. You will be required to stay away from the KCB club premises and team until advised otherwise,” a letter written to Orenge said in part.