The National land commission has issued a 90-day notice to private developers who illegally acquired ownership of nine islands in Kwale, to vacate or face the law. NLC chairman Prof Muhammed Swazuri said that the islands in Shimoni were acquired in an illegal manner and fraudulently allocated to individuals. The commission has given the individuals owning land to surrender their title deeds by February 20th this year and explain to the commission how they got the documents. The decision to make sure the developers vacate the place was left upon the office of the county commissioner. "We have found out the private developers acquired the parcels of land in the islands meant for the public illegally. We have taken bold steps to repossess all public land that had been allocated to them," he said. He noted that the commission was effecting a decision by the Court of Appeal that ruled out in 2014 that the nine islands belong to the members of the public and all those posing claims over it should hand back the title deeds to the commission. This comes after Shirazi residents raised alarm over the delay at which NLC has on revoking 25 title deeds of the nine Islands grabbed from them. They claimed that even after winning a case in 2014 at the Court of Appeal that the nine islands are owned by members of public and can never be an individual’s property, still private development is ongoing. These islands include Makasi, Mwamboje, Mkunazini, Samaa, King’amboni, Ngamiani, Vyongwani, Ngoji and Milimani. The Shirazi-Kingwede chief Hamadi Hassan narrated to the Star on phone that the problem started long ago as locals who were residing at the islands were displaced by sea bandits who took ownership by force. He said, although locals were still using the place on fishing, traditional practices among other activities, they were not living at the islands due to the fear of the bandits and that is how some powerful persons took advantage of the situation and sold the land illegally. “The area has been in dispute for over 50 years. Locals who lived at the island were displaced by sea bandits and came to settle to Bodo village. However after they realized the place was grabbed they went to High court but lost the case that is why they decided to appeal,” he said. Swazuri said the biggest island which is Ngamiani goes by 73 hectares and the smallest one, Samaa ranges around 10 hectares. The NLC chair added that how the islands were shared was a plot as the scheme done on the nine islands was not known by the commission which in turn raised alarm among members of the public. “Adjudication on Shimoni scheme was done in 1979 and people were issued with title deeds but later on Shimoni extension scheme came up where the nine islands were shared but only three people among the public were given some parcels. However, the scheme was not sanctioned from the ministry, no gazette notice and that is how it was established that the land was acquired on fraud,” said Swazuri. Following this move, locals protested afterwards, went to court but it was decided that the titles were duly given. However they appealed the decision and it was ruled out that the scheme was illegal and the titles were dismissed in 2014. “As a commission we sat down in 2015 discussed the issue and came up with a decision to revoke the titles but up to date the decision has not been implemented at the ground, that is why the need to effect the court’s decision within three months,” added Swazuri. Lunga Lunga deputy commissioner Josephat Biwott said that they will hold a meeting with the 25 investors, some representatives of the public, police and local leaders to find a way of ensuring the illegal investors vacate peacefully. “We will give them a three month period and if they won’t vacate, we will be forced to arrest them,” said Biwott. The place being an island cannot be demolished like other places in the mainland that is why the structures which include two concrete cottages and a hotel are still intact. Abdallah Nassir, a local said that his grandparents had planted coconut trees at the island but a white man who he recognized by one name as Peter has set up a cottage there and he even stopped him from harvesting his coconuts. “I have followed up this issue for over 20 years now since I was a youth but nothing tangible has been done. We are always promised that they will vacate,” he said. Chief Hassan said whenever members of public access the place for fishing or going to worship their shrines, they face police who evict them forcefully. “If we complain that the land is ours and it’s evident as the remaining of our houses which were destroyed by sea bandits are there, police ask us to present a court order which we do not have,” he said. He added that, locals fear the investors as at some instances some have found themselves jailed for forcefully wanting to access the islands. Some of the businesses set up there include two cottages by a white man famously known as Peter and a concrete apartment. Some of the plots have not yet been developed.