Census information helps determine locations for schools,roads, hospitals, and more. Businesses use census data to locate supermarkets, shopping centers, new housing and other facilities. The census data can determine election boundaries and therefore how individuals will be represented in parliament Who runs the census? The census is organised by the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics mandated through, headed by an act of parliament, The Statistics Act 2006. The Bureau is headed by a Director General, and the census undertaking is overseen by professional demographers/statisticians in collaboration with other government agencies, non governmental agencies, private sector among other stakeholders. The census is held every 10 years and 2009 marked the 5th census in post independence Kenya. Why is the census important? The census is more than a population count: it provides all levels of government, business,industry, media, academia and independent organisations with social, economic and demographic information that is essential for making decisions regarding the many services each provides to the public. How did the 2009 Census differ from previous census efforts? The 2009 Census employed new technology for better accuracy and faster processing of the data. These technologies included the use of special software to automatically read the hand-printed responses on the census form and mapping technology. How was the Census information collected? The census information was collected through instruments known as questionnaires. The questionnaires were filled by well trained census officials known as Enumerators. The questionnaire consisted of a set of questions meant to solicit information about the household ( the census unit of observation or enumeration). Why the ethnic Background asked about? Ethnic origin data paint a picture of Kenya’s cultural diversity and provide insight into the changing in-migration patterns and increasing diversity. Governments, community groups, ethnic and cultural organizations, school boards, hospitals, and researchers use ethnicity data to assess the socio-economic characteristics of people of differing backgrounds. Zakary Mwangi is the KNBS Director General. He spoke to the Star.