Kenya Police popularly known as ‘Chafua Chafua’ Boxing Club hope to finish the 2019 boxing season on a high. ‘Chafua Chafua’ handlers announced in Nairobi yesterday that they are retaining the same squad which was used last season without making any changes. Police will participate in National Boxing League traditionally played on an open format and the Inter County Championship which is a dual team series. “Expectations are usually very high during this time of the year when most teams announce their squads for the season but this time round we are using the same team as last year. It’s a blend of experienced young budding talent,” said Police assistant coach John Waweru. Shaffi Bakari, who represented the Kenya Hit Squad in the Gold Coast Commonwealth Games will retain his position at light-flyweight. Bakari, a product of Mombasa boxing ranks, is fighting quite well after taking over the division from Peter Mungai who hung up his gloves. Maurice Ochieng is expected to call the flyweight shots while Martin Oduor will be the main man in bantamweight division. Ethan Maina will be their first choice boxer in lightweight division while Joseph Shigali will serve in the light welterweight. Others are Boniface Mugunde (welter), veteran Ely Ajowi (light heavy) and Tobias Okeyo (super heavy). Meanwhile, the boxing calendar released last week by the two factions of Boxing Association of Kenya have been designed to promote boxing at the grass-roots. The Inter County Championship will go as far as Busia, Mombasa and Trans Nzoia this time round. Isaac Mbote, the BAK Interim Secretary said the move is in line with the noble spirit of promoting county sports. On June 29, the 2nd Inter-Counties Championship will be played in Siaya featuring hosts Kakamega Vihiga, Trans Nzoia and Busia. Busia will host the third leg of the BAK national League on June 13-15. The 2019 calendar will start with Novices at the Charter Hall on February 6-9. This will be followed by the intermediates in Thika on March 6-9. Nakuru Madison Square Garden will play host to the first leg of the league on May 8-11. The league ends with the fifth leg in Kisumu in November.