Despite going down 2-1 to Kariobangi Sharks at Kenyatta Stadium Machakos yesterday, Western Stima coach Paul Ogai feels the loss helped his side ease the mounting pressure to maintain their unbeaten run in the 2018-2019 Kenyan Premier League run. The returnees had an electrifying start of life in the top flight after a year in the cold, going for six matches without tasting defeat but were put off by Sharks yesterday, a result which Ogai termed as a huge relief to the growing strain of keeping the fine run. However, the former Palos tactician partially attributed the loss to wastefulness by his strikers in front of goal and equally chided his defence for letting in cheap first half goals. “The loss has helped ease the pressure of keeping the unbeaten run although this was a match we should have won easily. We created several clear cut chances and conceded easy goals. We really wanted to stay unbeaten but the loss will help us play under minimum pressure and I hope we will redeem ourselves against Nzoia Sugar in our next match,” said Ogai. His Sharks counterpart, William Muluya, could not contain his joy following the return of the reigning KPL Most Valuable Player (MVP), Erick Kapaito after two months of due to injury. “It’s an advantage to have the luxury of working with a squad with less or no injury concerns. Kapaito’s return gives us options and I think it’s a boost to our striking department going forward,” said Muluya. Ugandan forward George Abege gave Sharks the lead barely a minute into the game after Nixon Omondi picked him with a long pass which he superbly controlled and ferociously fired past Samuel Odhiambo. Speedy winger Harrison Mwendwa doubled the scores for Sharks in the 44th minute curling the ball past a fully stretching Odhiambo to the extreme corner from a Patillah Omoto’s short corner. Two minutes after the break,Herbert Kopany halved the deficit for the powermen scything a loose ball to the net after Sharks defenders failed to clear a corner kick from their area. Elsewhere,a brace from Enosh Onyango inspired Ulinzi Stars to a 2-1 win over Sony Sugar at Awendo Stadium. Onyango found the back of the net in the 25th and 74th minutes of the game to render a goal by Maxwell Onyango in the 80th minute null and void.