There is uncertainty in Kisumu in the wake of the teachers' strike that the Kenya National Union of Teachers says will begin on Thursday. Parents who spoke to the Star on Wednesday accused the Knut officials of having selfish interests at the expense of learners. Parent Davis Mulimi told the Star he will take his children to school tomorrow despite the strike threat. He said there is a court order barring teachers from going to strike. "I'm a law-abiding citizen, I want to believe that the union will adhere to the court order," he said. Mulimi said parents have been preparing their children for school because they have not seen any signs of a strike. "As a parent to a child who is set to join Form One on Monday, I'm preparing to take my son to school," he said. Another parent Maureen Atieno, whose daughter is going to Standard Eight, said she will take her to school. "If pupils are sent away, my daughter will return home," she said. Mary Anyango, who has a son at Kakamega High School, said the union is becoming too much with strike threats. She said it is wrong for them to resort to strikes anytime things do not go their way. Anyango said teachers play a critical role in the students' lives. She said what Knut is doing is uncalled for. "There was conciliation committee formed to address their issues. There is also a court order on the same, why must they defy this? If they agree to talks, they can come to a consensus with the government," she said. Earlier, the National Association of Parents termed the strike rushed and insensitive. Chairman Nicholas Maiyo said union officials should also consider the Constitution that provides not only for their members’ rights to fair labour relations but also the children’s right to quality education. However, Knut Secretary General Wilson Sossion maintained the strike is on. He said teachers are exercising their rights enshrined in the Constitution. Sossion accused the Teachers' Service Commission of using courts to intimidate them. The Kenya Union of Post Primary Education Teachers National Governing Council was set to meet on Wednesday to discuss issues affecting their members and whether or not to join the strike. However, a source, who is part of the council, told the Star the meeting had been scheduled but officials had not been called. "So far we are yet to be called to attend any meeting,” he said. Click here for the latest political news