Talk of Kenyans living in opulence, former Kiambu governor William Kabogo posted a picture of himself relaxing next to a calm water body. Kenyans were left struggling to unravel the mystery. Kabogo was seated alone with a drink on a stool. However, most people believed he was in Kisumu next to Lake Victoria. Others guessed he was in Mount Kenya next to a river or a man-made lake. However, Kabogo was at his Nairobi home unwinding, after an exhausting online flurry with Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria. ** A flashy county boss known for his controversies, is once again the talk of the town. The governor has been having sexual affairs with nominated MCAs, in the county, at will for a long time.The MCAs, who colleagues have branded 'the governor's slayqueens', roam around the governor's office waiting for his phone call, a sign that he needs a massage. The affairs are so brazen a male MCA, seemingly disgusted by the habit, was overheard saying: 'This is embarrassing. How can they tell us to leave the (governor's) office to give them time?This is embarrassment.” The desperate MCAs are enticed by the governor's generosity, and are now a regular presence in his public events. They receive at least Sh20,000 allowance for one event.They also accompany him whenever he makes a trip out of the county to provide comfort and pleasure. ****** Cabinet Secretaries are reported to be doing dreadful disservice to Kenyans who intend to venture into fast and affordable food business. Corridors has learnt some CSs lease corner spaces in government buildings to Chinese traders who have no immigration papers. One just needs to see what is happening at Utalii House to understand the extent of the mess. ****** Are the bosses of a troubled commission altering minutes so they can lay ground for sacking staff and pave way for the hiring of relatives? Corridors was told minutes are being changed to evade criminal liability for errors of omission and commission during their tenure that now is in its sunset days. The commissioners have embarked on doctoring minutes to hire and fire. Some of the employees used to alter the minutes were recently handed hefty rewards. One was even overhead bragging that they have a machete to chop off anyone who sticks their heads out. Is this not blatant abuse of office?. ****** Concerns are being raised about the much-publicised government textbook distribution policy. Some high-ranking officials in the Ministry of Education are believed to have taken advantage of the workload in the publishing and printing houses and forced publishers to hire their relatives. The printing and publishing process began in October, last year, and will run through March. Most of those contracted are casual labourers in packaging, loading and unpacking of the consignments. 