Nakuru RFC have made seven changes for the Kenya Cup clash against Homeboyz today at their backyard. Edward Moseti moves from open side flanker to loose head prop as Chrispin Onyango slides from the blind wing to occupy the full back position vacated by Dancun Abuyeka. Abuyeka will be hoping to make an impact off the bench. Other changes will see young Lawrence Ishuga make his Kenya Cup debut at scrum-half as Brian Mayaka pushes Monate Akuei to the bench. The match will be televised live by Bamba Sport from 4pm. The Rift Valley-based side will be seeking to bounce back from their 36-21 defeat to Quins last weekend that saw them drop to eighth place in the standings with 15 points. The former champions matched Quins but ran out of steam in the final quarter and coach Mitch Ocholla will be seeking response from his charges on home turf. Ocholla said the side needs to win the next five games to move up the table and be in a position to qualify for the play-offs come the end of the season. “We have had a good week of training and we corrected our mistakes last week. We have improved our scrum and set piece and I am confident that we can win this game,” added Ocholla Homeboyz lie seventh and will be seeking to build on the 35-23 victory over Blake Blad next week. Coach Simon Odongo said he expects a competitive encounter against the hots. “This will be tough game and we are aware what to expect from Nakuru. They have very robust forwards and we have to match them in that department and execute well in attack and defence if we are to win the game. Key players for the Deejays will include Thomas Okidia, Joseph Amalemba and Stanley Isogol in the forwards with Kenya international scrum-half Mohammed Omollo, Israel Soi and Leon Adongo the key actors in the back-line. The match will be preceded by the Menengai Oilers match against win-less Strathmore Leos game at the same venue from 2pm. League leaders Kabras make the long trip to Nairobi to face Nondies at Jamhuri Park. Champions KCB, who lie second on the log have a date with Blak Blad at Kenyatta University while third-placed Quins take on Mean machine at the University of Nairobi ground as a resurgent Mwamba have a date against struggling Impala at the Railway Club. Fixtures Oilers vs Leos 2pm Live	(NAC) Nakuru vs Homeboyz 4pm Live	(NAC) Nondies vs Kabras 4pm	(Jamhuri Park) Machine vs Quins 4pm	(UON) KCB vs Blak Blad 4pm (Kenyatta Uni) Mwamba vs Impala 4pm	(Railway Club)