In an ideal democracy, leaders in general and those at the top, especially the
country’s leader are generally chosen or elected on account of their leadership
qualities. These can be quantified as their religious convictions or lack
thereof, honesty, trustworthiness, integrity, cleanliness on matters
corruption, firm educational foundation, wisdom, experience and ability to
inspire. It’s poignant and relevant here to note
that, America, a model for what a desirable and mature democracy ought to be,
is currently being led by someone who has none of these qualities, save,
perhaps his ability to inspire nativists and racists. To be sure, not all [Donald] Trump
supporters are racist. There’s no meaningful discussion that can
be had on the question of whether Uhuru Kenyatta was qualified to be President
when he assumed office in 2013; what’s not arguable is that he was not qualified
the first time he vied inn 2002. A meaningful discussion, however, can and
must be on whether Deputy President William Ruto is qualified to be president. Under our Constitution, a person qualifies
for nomination as a presidential candidate if the person is a citizen by birth;
is qualified to stand for election as a Member of Parliament; is nominated by a
political party or is an independent candidate; and is nominated by not fewer
than 2,000 voters from each of a majority of the counties. There were eight individuals who qualified
to vie for the presidency in 2017 but none other than Uhuru and Raila stood a
chance. Having jokers qualifying to vie as
presidential candidates goes to make the point that being qualified to vie for
President is not the same as having the leadership qualities necessary to lead
a country. That in turn evokes consideration of the
following uncontroverted and obvious truths about leadership, especially in
Kenyan and African context: First, there is a strong correlation between
leadership and the development of a nation. Second, almost all that ails Kenya
and Africa for that matter is directly linkable to bad leadership. Third,
Kenyan and African leaders, save for Nkrumah and Mandela, have all failed their
citizenry. Fourth, the failure of Kenyan/African
leadership is not due to lack of information or resources. Fifth, Kenya, and
Africa for that matter, has individuals who can rise to greatness in leadership
anytime. What we need in Kenya now more than ever
before is a transformational leader to finally transform the country for good.
According to one expert, a transformational leader changes the lives of people
by changing perceptions, values, and aspirations of the people — all while
working for the greater good of the country. Can Uhuru become the transformative
leader? Yes, but only partially so. Uhuru, working with Raila can start laying
the foundation for transformative leadership but it would take the next
president to truly transform the country. Therefore, Uhuru and whoever that is
can lay claim to having been our transformative leaders. The key here is who would that next
president be? Analysing all potential candidates, using the above leadership
character matrix — religious convictions or lack thereof, honesty,
trustworthiness, integrity, cleanliness on matters corruption, firm educational
foundation, wisdom, experience and ability to inspire — only one stands out
from the crowd and obviously so, if he chooses to vie, even though he falls
short on the religious conviction test. However, Ruto, his closest competitor, can
arguably pass the religious conviction test and even score well in the other
measures. He, however, fails miserably on cleanliness on matters corruption,
leaving Raila Odinga running away with the presidency, if he vies again and his
buddy Uhuru gives him the blessing as is anticipated. Samuel Omwenga is a legal analyst and political commentator in the
United States   