In the on going discussions
regarding current Kenyan politics, two schools of thought seem to have emerged. One school of thought
expresses uncertainty about the Building Bridges Initiative and sees it as a
ploy to block William Ruto from ascending to the presidency. The other defends
the Building Bridges Initiative and appreciates its short and long-term
positive effects on Kenyan politics by downplaying ethnic rivalry, while
bringing a sober atmosphere in which Kenya can develop. Those who argue that the
BBI, launched on March 9 last year by the handshake between Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga,
point out that by bringing the opposition leader into Jubilee politics, Ruto
will be adversely affected. In other words, the Jubilee Party survives or fades
away depending on how it juxtaposes itself against Raila. If Raila is "out
there" as an enemy being fought by a joint brigade where UhuRuto is at the
top, then Jubilee survives. But if UhuRuto split into two atoms, which are free
to join with any other atom into a new political molecule, then Jubilee dies.  TUJU'S THOUGHTS Jubilee secretary
general Raphael Tuju, at a press conference where he addressed himself to this
issue, gave a much more nuanced interpretation of the unfolding events. According to Tuju,
Kenyans need to understand the meaning and intent of the BB initiative in the
context of what happened in 2007, 2013 and 2017 elections. After the
post-election crisis  of 2008 in which supporters and followers of the two
political parties, ODM and PNU, got involved in a bloody internal conflict due
to a rigged   election, Uhuru Kenyatta and William Rutto took the
bold step of uniting the Kikuyus and Kalenjins into the Jubilee coalition so as
to avoid another backlash between the two communities in case of a contested
election results in which they were on opposite sides. One needs to remember
that in the 2007 election, Raila Amolo Odinga and William Ruto were both
kingpins in the ODM, challenging Mwai Kibaki, with Uhuru' s support, for the
presidency. Tuju then avers that as
2013 elections approached, Uhuru and Ruto thought it best to bring the
Kalenjins and the Kikuyus into one political camp to avoid any political
rivalry between the two, especially in the context of the politically volatile
North Rift region where both Kalenjins and Kikuyus have enormous economic
interests. That, in Tuju' s view, was the first handshake. But it was the handshake
that took into account only two communities according to Tuju. The handshake
went further. Uhuru and Raila accepted that the 2017 elections were even more
ethnically polarising, resulting in two individuals claiming to be
"validly" elected as President of the Republic of Kenya. To avoid an impending
political deluge with tragic ethnic polarisation, they decided to bury the
proverbial hatchet and shook hands to build bridges, not only among their
supporters, but also across all Kenyan communities that have suffered in an
electoral regime where "winners always take all." The BBI hence has an
agenda to be fulfilled before the next election to avoid the tragic happenings
that have bedevilled past elections in Kenya. And this tragedy is due to the
use of socio-cultural identity, aka ethnicity, for political and economic
discrimination to gain or keep power by some political elites. Identity based
politics is a basic right under the Bill of Rights. Its use to discriminate is
not. This is the new politics that the BB initiative is proposing. If that is the
interpretation of the BBI, then Ruto should not be apprehensive about it unless
he has another formula that can better humanise our elections, argued Tuju. Methinks that Tuju's
train of thought is worth paying attention to. But let me approach it this way. First, we must all
accept that there has not been a single presidential election in Kenya's
history where the majority of Kenyans have come out without being politically,
morally or physically badly hurt except the 2002 General Election. That
means that our experience with "the winner take all" presidential
system has not really been fair or good to Kenyans. We would definitely prove
ourselves to be very sadistic if we perpetuate a political behaviour that hurts
us every time we engage in it. Sane human beings don't behave that way. They
change tact when a pattern of behaviour threatens their very existence. Second, the handshake
has now given us an opportunity to debate freely, interact freely and meet each
other freely while we search for a model of politics where elections will not
leave us perpetually bruised every time they are held. That is why the
vitriolic exchange of words that the media constantly reports to us as a
"debate" between supporters of the two Jubilee leaders needs to be
toned down to give way for a sober debate on this weighty matter.  CHANGING THE CONSTITUTION Third, let it be known
that we cannot really change the model of our governance if we don't revisit
our Constitution where the fundamental rules of the political game are
enshrined. The proposal to restructure the Executive and Parliament branches of
our governance to do away with the winner take all system has been with us
since Independence. I remember, in
particular, the many opposition party manifestos I have worked on, above ground
or underground, while we were struggling against the authoritarian regimes of Jomo
Kenyatta and Daniel Moi. We were consistently of the opinion that in a
multi-ethnic and multi-cultural society like ours, the parliamentary system manages
these diversities more democratically than in the presidential authoritarian or
neo-authoritarian system. The Bomas of Kenya draft
constitution proposed the parliamentary system. When MPs finally gathered in
Naivasha to discuss this draft at the eleventh hour before submitting it to
Parliament on its final lap towards approval at the 2010 referendum, they
produced the mongrel of a constitution we have now. This is what most
commentators call "the hybrid system." The very word
"hybrid" begs an important question: What are we mixing with what to
get what? I was, therefore, very
happy when President Kenyatta, who as Head of State has dealt with presidential
powers at close range, admitted in public that "this winner take all
system" is no good for our country. Another Kenya is
possible under a parliamentary democracy, recognising our ethnic differences
but without politically being enslaved by these differences. Ethnic identity by
itself is not a problem. Creating a political system based on ethnic
discrimination is definitely a problem. It can lead to ethnic conflict or even
fascism and ethnic genocide. We must consciously stop going that direction by
embracing an inclusive democratic political system.  