National women’s team captain Mercy Moim has signed a five-month contract deal with top flight Thailand side, Supreme volleyball club. Supreme VC are the reigning Thailand League champions after emerging 2018 winners with 37 points ahead of Nakhon Ratchasima the Mall’s with 34 points and Bangkok Glass (31points). Moim has been away in Thailand for the last three weeks and will play her first match for her new club this Saturday . Moim, the reigning Kenya Volleyball Federation (KVF) League Most Valuable Player, said she is glad to have landed the deal with the top flight. “It has been three weeks since I came to Thailand and so far so good. Supreme VC are a top flight side that recently defended their crown and I am glad I will be part of the side even as I seek to pick more experience and exposure,” said Moim, who has previously had professional stints in Europe. She added: “Mine has been to learn from every opportunity I get out there and this is no different. I just hope the experience I will gain will come in handy both at the club and national team level.” Asked about her availability ahead of the Africa Club Championship set for March in Egypt, the Kenya Prisons’ left attacker said: “ We will see to that.” “ I am not sure about that. But one thing I know is that the current squad has what it takes to compete at the club championship and hopefully, they can go all the way and win the trophy,” noted the mother of one . Reached for comment, Prisons coach Josp Barasa said he is aware the player was away in Thailand for trials. He was, however, non-committal on whether player will miss the Africa Club Championships later in March. “I can’t comment on her availability during the Africa Club show but one thing I know is that the rest of the players will start training next Monday ahead of the league season and the club championship,” said Barasa, who recently staged the first edition of Kimilili volleyball festival attracting 11 men and five women teams at Amtala Stadium.