Let’s take a
break from 2022, and even referendums. Have you
ever read Article 46 about “consumers”?  They have the right to goods and services of
reasonable quality; to the information necessary for them to gain full benefit
from goods and services; to the protection of their health, safety, and
economic interests; and  compensation for
loss or injury arising from defects in goods or services. Where do the fish and tomatoes come in?
Newspapers recently told us that fish from China may be contaminated.  And tomatoes (and other vegetables) have high
levels of pesticides and bacteria. We have had various other food scares –
antibiotics in poultry and cattle, for example.  Is our food safe? What law does protect Kenyan consumers? One of
the oldest ways of cheating consumers is to have inaccurate (maybe deliberately
so) weights and measures. Kenya has had a Weights and Measures Act since 1912,
and the Weights and Measures Department carries out many inspections of
weighing devices. The Trade Descriptions Act makes it a crime to make
misleading statements about prices and qualities of goods, for example. The
Hire Purchase Act protects consumers who make hire purchase agreements (you use
the goods in return for payments by instalments, and at the end of the time you
become the owner). They must be told how much it would cost to buy the goods
outright, and once they have paid at least two-thirds of the price, but then
default, the owner cannot take the goods taken back without a court order. The Sale of Goods Act says that if goods you
buy are not fit for use you can get your money back (and, by the way, the
machines that KRA requires for retailers that make it easier for KRA to claim VAT
do not affect our right). And even if you do not buy goods, but they are
defective and cause you some injury, you can claim compensation. But the transactions of consumers for goods and
services have become much more complex.  CONSUMER PROTECTION ACT In 2012, Parliament passed this Act well within
the constitutional deadline of four years, with a lot of civil society input. A summary of all its contents would make for
very boring reading, but here are a few examples. It assumes that a consumer is at a disadvantage
in dealing with a business — this may be true of some businesses, but not
perhaps of some jua kali businesses. This approach shows in the rule
that if a contract is unclear it must be read in a way that benefits the
consumer. It allows consumers to get out of contracts that are unfair: If the price
“grossly exceeds” the price at which similar goods or services are readily
available to similar consumers, or if the contract is “excessively one-sided”  — not in favour of the consumer, to take two
examples. If you get an estimate of work, and you agree
to the work being done, the provider must not charge more than 10 per cent over the
estimate — unless you ask for extra work to be done. If you enter into certain types of contract,
such as for “personal development”, which means things such as health and diet,
photoshoots for modelling, martial arts, sports, or dance, you should have a cooling-off
period. This means that within 10 days, you could cancel the agreement. It would
not apply if the services were offered by a club you are a member of. It
specifically does not apply to golf clubs — an interesting sidelight on where
political influence lies. If you ask for repairs to be done you must be given an estimate of
how much they are likely to cost.  NOT ENOUGH YET There are a number of problems with the Act. Like so much recent
legislation, it shows signs of having been drafted in a hurry, enacted in a
hurry and without proper consideration by our highly paid MPs. Apparently, those who drafted the Act thought they were creating
criminal offences: That sellers etc who did not do what the Act required
committed a crime. But they failed to do so. A court will not treat as a crime
a failure to do something (or not to do it) unless the law says very clearly
“[a person who does/fails to do….] commits an offence”. The Act never says
that. A second problem is that it is not limited to what we usually think
of true consumer situations. Consumer protection laws often protect only
individuals and only if they are not buying or using the goods or services for
their business or profession. The assumption is that the business purchaser
does not need the same protection; indeed may be in a stronger economic
position. But think of the farmer who sells milk to Brookside – who needs
protection: the farmer or Brookside. But under our law, Brookside is the
consumer! A third problem is more the fault that of the relevant Ministry. In
a complicated area of the law like this it is common to put the outline only in
an Act of Parliament and fill in the details in regulations, made by the
Minister and approved by Parliament. This Act constantly mentions things that will be “prescribed”. This
means set out in regulations. It uses “prescribed” 86 times. And it says that
the Cabinet Secretary must make those regulations.  But there are apparently no regulations made
under the Act. (The Consumer Federation of Kenya, COFEK, produced a draft in
2014, but it does not seem to have been adopted.) Among the things that are
supposed to be “prescribed” is an amount charged for personal development to
make the provisions mentioned earlier applicable. In other words, what I said
earlier about personal development contracts is not actually operational
because no-one has specified the threshold fee that make the rules applicable. Time share agreements, where you buy the right to use or let a
particular house or apartment in a resort for a few weeks each year must have
certain terms, — yet to be prescribed. Yet companies have started to advertise
time shares. In other words, large chunks of this Act are actually not
operational as yet – six years after it was passed. Two particular failures are about legal procedures to enforce the
Act. Consumer claims often involve quite small losses, but very many people
have suffered the same loss. One useful strategy is to enable a few people to
bring a claim on behalf of all the people affected — a class action. Those
affected might be in the thousands. The Act envisages class actions. But there
are no court rules made for such actions, and at least one judge has suggested
this means no such actions can be brought. To be fair, this judge may have been
rather narrow in his approach. Another way of dealing with large number of small claims is to have
special courts to deal with small cases. The Small Claims Court Act was passed
in 2016, but has not yet been made effective. And even if fully enforced the Act has weaknesses. Many countries
prohibit unsolicited credit cards; the Act does not. And though banks (not
under the Act) are supposed to tell borrowers the true cost of borrowing, there
are many mobile apps some lending at annual percentage rates of  some hundreds of percent a year.  HOW ABOUT FISH AND TOMATOES? Finally, the Consumer Protection Act is really
for the middle classes. But the ordinary poor citizen of this country is
affected by poor service, and contaminated food. They are also affected by the
sort of advertisements we all receive on our phones inviting us to take out
loans. Despite Article 46 and a large number of laws,
we have a long way to go before the rights of consumers are properly protected.
Nor do we yet have law to provide for “fair, honest and decent advertising” as
the Constitution requires. Clearly government commitment to this area of
law is limited.