Mt Kenya leaders have warned against a plot to sabotage President Uhuru Kenyatta and AU envoy Raila Odinga's truce, calling for an end to the succession debate. The politicians, led by Kiambu governor Ferdinand Waititu, nominated senator Isaac Mwaura and former presidential candidates Martha Karua and Peter Kenneth, castigated lawmakers from the region whom they said were disrespecting Uhuru during a press conference in Nairobi on Wednesday. Jubilee nominated Senator Mwaura asked politicians moving around the country whether they were launching projects or promises. "Anybody who thinks they can come to our bedroom and impregnate our women and girls and dictate what to do with them, your time is up!" he said. "Our leader is Uhuru and there is no other leader that we know of. When the time comes, our region will negotiate for a President." Mwaura said the Mt Kenya region cannot afford to campaign and yet there are promises made by the President during the last election that haVe to be fulfilled. "We want Uhuru to fulfil his mandate before we begin another cycle of campaigns in 2022. We appreciate people who are good at political propaganda," he said. "Uhuru is angry because leaders are part and parcel of how they want the president to transform our regions." He noted that Uhuru has the support of Mt Kenya adding that they will not turn a blind eye for those out to tarnish his name. "We are not going to let it slide for those after Uhuru. There are people who have been paid to tarnish Uhuru's name. We know the owner of the dog.. if you want Mt Kenya to support you will not succeed if you continue dividing us," the senator said. Waititu said the region is sober and nobody can divide it "Mt Kenya is an organised society. We are very sober and we need to tell them that be very sober when speaking because everybody is looking at the facts on the ground," he said. "Some of them were apologising because they were drunk and that is why we are fighting alcoholism." Narc Kenya party leader Martha Karua said some 'unpatriotic leaders' are sabotaging the Building Bridges Initiative for personal political gain. "We demand that leaders of goodwill adhere to the President’s directive on succession and first focus on development," she said. "We are treading on very dangerous ground here. The President's anger on those saying there was no development was only directed at leaders who have been misled." Former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth demanded respect to Uhuru and the Presidency. "Individuals with divergent views must criticise or correct the president with decorum and respect," he said. "Development projects are laid out through Parliament, and the Executive implements what has been passed. We want to ask those MPs to go back to the House, and make sure it happens as they want." On the succession debate, Kenneth said Kenya cannot talk about a vacuum when there are people in the president and deputy president position. Earlier, Karua said Kenya has gone out of control by disrespecting President Uhuru Kenyatta. Speaking to Citizen TV on Wednesday, Karua said Kenya lacked political maturity and must be streamlined. "You hear people cursing and talking in a disrespectful manner to one another, including to the Head of State. We must pay respect to the Presidency," she said. "This is not saying that we cannot criticise him but we must differ with respect." Karua added that she cannot support Deputy President William Ruto in his bid for the country’s top seat. Read: Ruto throwing punches at Uhuru using supporters - Karua Read also: Ruto rushes to defend Uhuru against attacks