Even though his Mathare United side unexpectedly top the league at the quarter way stage, coach Francis Kimanzi is not resting on his laurels knowing what is required to finish top of the pile in a league campaign that will last until mid this year. Kimanzi, who led the Slum Boys to their only title triumph back in 2008, has urged his forwards to be more clinical in front of goal despite beating Kakamega Homeboyz 3-2. Chrispin Oduor scored a first half brace while Cliff Nyakeya added the third at the hour mark to cancel out goals from Allan Wanga and Luke Namanda. While the win saw the Slum Boys reclaim top spot, Kimanzi was not overly impressed by his forwards. “We were in control for very long and we had many chances to kill the game. At this level it is important that you kill the game when you are on top,” said Kimanzi on the club’s official portal . With 20 points from eight matches, Mathare United are two points ahead of second-placed Bandari. However, Kimanzi insists it’s still early days. “It’s a long journey. We have just done eight rounds so far and there are many more to come. We will continue taking each game at a time.” “The most important thing is to be more efficient every time we step onto the pitch and ensure we give fans something to smile about,” he offered. Bandari have emerged as title dark horse over the last couple of years and will be hoping to improve on their second place finish last season. The dockers pipped Sofapaka 1-0 to stay in touch with the league leaders. Western Stima, who twice threw away a lead before settling for a 2-2 draw with Nzoia Sugar are third with 15 points. Tusker who were held to a goal-less draw by Ulinzi Stars are fourth with 14 points same as Kariobangi Sharks who have an inferior goal difference. Mount Kenya United, the only team yet to pick up a victory this season, are still bottom of the pile with two points from eight matches and are firm candidates for relegation despite reports at the end of last season that they had got a financial backer to ease their cash burden. Posta Rangers are the surprise outfit in the relegation zone despite the heavy investments they have made since their return to the top flight league. The mailmen have  lost their last three matches and have not won in their last five matches, leaving them second from bottom with six points.