Kitui governor Charity Ngilu yesterday said she is not shaken by the onslaught by the county assembly and Senator Enoch Wambua. She dismissed the hostility against her government as well as accusations of corruption and poor leadership as endless politicking perpetuated by those seeking to unseat her. Ngilu said she will face her adversaries and urged residents not to be bothered by the political rows. She was addressing Kitui town residents as she launched the tarmacking of the Sh32 million Naiva-National Oil road. “Don’t worry. We are equal to the task. Politics is never ending. There are those who want our positions, others are seeking higher posts,” the governor said. Acrimony MCAs and Wambua have accused Ngilu’s administration of presiding over massive fund misappropriation. The MCAs in December rejected a supplementary budget presented by Ngilu’s administration citing corruption loopholes. The MCAs further passed a motion to impeach Ngilu’s Treasury executive Mary Nguli for alleged abuse of office, ignoring the assembly’s decision and breaking the law. Nguli has challenged the decision in court. Ngilu said the road improvement project was financed from the Sh232 million grant her government received from World Bank to fund infrastructure projects within Kitui. The county will get an additional Sh500 million once it uses up the Sh232 million. Ngilu said her administration will upgrade 2,000Km of road in rural areas between January and April. She said she is committed to improving the county’s dilapidated road network. On Wednesday Wambua wrote an open letter to Ngilu, asking her to take personal responsibility for alleged corruption in her administration. He asked Ngilu to stop peddling lies against MCAs. Wambua was referring to last Sunday’s public statement at a church in Mwingi town where Ngilu said that MCAs were blackmailing and undermining her administration. Ngilu said the MCAs were not happy because she had rejected their demands to be taken on lavish and luxurious retreats using public funds.