Winning three trophies in just two months is a sure sign that a team has indeed arrived at the peak of their powers. That is exactly the feelings at Kariobangi Sharks after they added the SportPesa Super Cup to the domestic Football Kenya Federation (FKF) Super Cup and the Shield, a trophy haul that would make any club green with envy. Today, William Muluya’s charges resume their pursuit of the holy grail when they host league leaders Mathare United in a mouth-watering Kenyan Premier League duel at Moi Stadium, Kasarani. Speedy winger Harrison Mwendwa scorer of the winning goal against Bandari that earned Sharks the historic opportunity to face English Premier League side, Everton,  revealed their hunger for success in the league. “We have done well in cup competitions which are a knockout and I think we should now try and do that in the league. That requires consistency and focus over a long period,” he opined. Sharks are nine points behind the league leaders though with a game in hand and they cannot countenance defeat against Mathare who like them, are unbeaten. “Mathare are playing at a very high level right now but so are we. We must match them in terms of intensity despite having only returned from Tanzania and with little time in training,” chipped in Eric Juma. Belief is already growing in the Mathare United camp that this is the year they  might just end their  decade long wait to claim another top flight title. Since their  pleasantly surprising triumph in 2008, the Slum Boys have flattered to deceive but after a succession of disappointing campaigns, Francis Kimanzi’s charges now have it in them to truly launch a realistic title assault. Second-placed Bandari have little time to mourn over their loss to Sharks on Sunday as they face a tricky trip to Bukhungu, where Kakamega Homeboyz lie in wait. The dockers have emerged as real contenders for the league title and with their imperious home record, it is trips like this that might eventually decide their fate in the championship race. Holders Gor Mahia are enduring their worst start to a league campaign in over a decade. Three defeats in eight matches has left them ten points off top spot. Anything but a win today at home to Sony Sugar might spell doom to the short tenure of coach Hassan Oktay. The mood is no different at the home of arch-rivals AFC Leopards who will be at the Green Stadium to tackle Zoo Kericho, who unsurprisingly find themselves in the   bottom three with seven points from nine matches. Zoo sold their two best players Nicholas Kipkirui to champions Gor Mahia and Mike Madoya to Tusker and that has inevitably coincided with a sorry start to their third season in the top flight league.