The much-anticipated Puntland State
Presidential election finally took place on Tuesday,
electing former Somalia Planning minister Saciid Abdullahi Deni to replace
Abdiweli Mohamed Ali Gas as President of Somalia's oldest federal state. There are five federal states namely
Puntland, Galmudug, HirShabele, South West and Jubaland, which are like county
governments in Kenya. However, they are governed by presidents unlike in Kenya
where governors lead counties. As is the norm with Somalia's presidential
election history, the incumbent, Abdiweli, failed to retain his seat, loosing
in the first round of voting. He only managed eight votes out of a possible 66 from
the region's lawmakers.  ONE TERM CURSE Current Somalia President Mohamed
Abdullahi Farmaajo seems to know this fact, no wonder his recent desperate move
to usurp power in South West State where he installed his man to help him beat
this mysterious one-term presidency jinx. President-elect Deni of Puntland won in
the third round with 35 votes to beat his closest challenger, Gen Asad Osman
Abdullahi, former Puntland head of Intelligence, who got 31 votes. Deni served in the last Somalia government
of President Hassan Sheikh Mohamud and also took part and lost in the last
Somalia presidential election in February 2017,
which Farmaajo won. This might not the best news for President Farmaajo because
it means the Puntland president-elect is aligned to a rival political
party. The Puntland election, although peaceful
was not short of bribery claims as happened in South West State, with reliable
reports indicating millions of dollars exchanged hands in a bid by
candidates to outwit the other in a frenzy-spending spree. In such scenarios naturally, the one with
the deepest pocket hits the jackpot.  CLAN POLITICS It is sad that no election in Somalia goes
without bribery claims. This undermines polls credibility and spells doom for
genuine contenders with no cash irrespective of their development track
records. It's also a pity seeing millions paid in bribes in one of the world's
poorest countries, with the highest illiteracy and child mortality rates. Politics in Somalia is always controlled
by clan affiliations and economic power. With the bigger clans automatically
winning the presidency because lawmakers and not the public elect the President.
This gives room to corruption and vote manipulation. Looking back at the last five presidential
elections in Puntland since the formation of the State in 1998, the Presidency
has simultaneously rotated undemocratically amongst candidates from the main
Mahamuud Saleeban sub sub-clan of the majority Majeerten sub-clan of the Darood
clan in Puntland. Power sharing is also based on a 4.5 clan
system. This was agreed upon years back during a reconciliation conference in
Kenya to appease warring clans of equal representation in a bid to get them to
support State building efforts. The power sharing deal is legally acknowledged
by the Federal Charter of Somalia and so is constitutional. In the case of Puntland, the Mahamud
Saleeban hegemony over power is more of a silent deal or a gentleman's
agreement and is not constitutional. Their Dhulbahante sub-clan causins have
always automatically been given the Deputy Presidency slot. The Speaker of
parliament is reserved for the Warsangali sub-clan. The above power sharing
agreement is somehow respected and adhered to in Puntland's Presidential
elections.  POLITICAL HEGEMONY Deni hails from the Osman Mahamud branch
of the Mahamud Saleeban sub-sub clan. His predecessor Abdiweli Mohamed Ali Gas
is from the Omar Mahamud branch of the same Mahamud Saleeban sub-sub clan or
the MS. Five years ago Abdiweli defeated Abdirahman Faroole from the Isse
Mahamud, which is also from the same ruling elite branch, the MS. This explains why three candidates from
the Osman Mahamud branch garnered most votes in the first round and how the incumbent,
in spite of his advantage, managed only eight votes. This is because it is
their turn to win the presidency. Talk of a smart voter rigging system. The Mahamud Saleeban hegemony in Puntland
is, therefore, the determinant factor when it comes to the presidential
election. Come the next election in five years, it will be the turn of the Isse
Mahamud to take over. What I don't understand is why candidates
from other sub-clans chest thump and even waste their money taking part in an
already determined election. Perhaps it was also agreed that everyone must take
part. This could be the main reason why presidential
election disputes in Puntland are unheard of because each powerful sub-clan of
the Mahamud Saleeban know their turn in taking power. Talk of a smart way of
avoiding conflicts, the Somali style.  2020 PRESIDENTIAL POLITICS AT PLAY Such agreement only exists in Puntland. In
the other federal states, it's an open field where intimidation, vote rigging
and corruption and sometimes violence is the order of the day. By the end of the year, elections must
have taken place in all the five Federal States in preparation for the national
Somalia presidential election in 2020, where lawmakers from the five federal
states will elect the President. So far, only two states have had their
election and the next states expected to hold their polls are Jubaland,
HirShabele and Galmudug. The Soomal column will be here to bring
you unrivalled, fair analysis of the happenings in Somalia as they unfold.
Follow us every Saturday from
your favourite copy of the Star newspaper.   