If I’d had my way, you would right now be reading my analysis of what Kenya can do to address its single greatest socioeconomic challenge: youth unemployment. But this powder keg of youth unemployment usually finds its most destructive expression during presidential elections. And so I think it is important here to make a deviation and first outline why we all ought to be grateful to President Uhuru Kenyatta and the former Prime Minister Raila Odinga for finding a way to pull the country back from the disasters that threatened Kenya less than a year ago. In case you have forgotten, as recently as January 2018, there was room for doubt as to whether Kenya would remain one nation. There was a very real chance of a descent into bloody civil war with over 50 per cent (demographically) of the country reportedly set on the creation of a ‘People’s Republic of Kenya’ through secession. The bloodshed seemed inevitable because however many resolutions were passed by the ‘People’s Assemblies’ (which were then being constituted in opposition zones), no Kenyan president was going to sit by and let his nation be broken into two. Especially as the proposed lines of cleavage for this secession project, as indicated in the opposition’s maps, were bound to prove disastrous to Uhuru’s political backyard of Central Kenya. Political commentators, both local and international, repeatedly declared that Kenya was ‘on the edge of the precipice’. But somehow we did not tumble into that ultimate disaster. Rather, Uhuru reached out to his hitherto implacable rival, Raila, who in turn was willing to take the path of compromise over that of potentially endless conflict — and the rest is history. It’s Uhuru’s predecessor, President Mwai Kibaki, who pointed out with great clarity that what made Kenya different from the various African countries which seemed condemned to repeated cycles of election-related political violence, was that Kenyan leaders in general had a capacity for compromise. That when push came to shove, Kenyan leaders could be relied on to make the difficult compromises needed to retain stability and thus keep the country moving forward. A willingness to ‘wait and fight another day’ was at the centre of this willingness to compromise. And I daresay that leaders of other African nations seem to have taken this lesson to heart. First, we had Ethiopia, where after all these years of being a classic authoritarian police state, the leadership was quite abruptly handed over (in April 2018 ) to someone who was from the Oromo community — long the bedrock of opposition to the Ethiopian governments of the day. And following that peaceful prime ministerial transition, there was a flowering of inclusive government to be seen at all levels of the political establishment. While I do not know what exactly prompted this outcome, it is clear enough that there had to be a great deal of political compromise for this to happen. And thus was yet another long-predicted African apocalypse avoided. More recently we have DR Congo where we had an election which — even by Kenyan standards — did not qualify as an election at all. But it was a long-delayed poll and opened the way to what had been only a distant dream to most Congolese — a peaceful transition from one president to another. No doubt the controversy over who won that election will continue for a long time to come. But if I were advising opposition leader Martin Fayulu, whose supporters are convinced that their candidate won by a landslide, I would tell him to let the reported winner, Felix Tshisekedi, assume the presidency, on condition that some kind of coalition government was established. After all these years of dictatorship and corruption, it is historic enough that there should be a peaceful changing of the guard at the top. And that the man who won was previously an opposition leader and not the president’s own chosen heir. What the DRC needs most now is political compromise of the type which Kenyan leaders have repeatedly displayed. This matters more than a repeat election that meets global standards.