Wajir governor Mohamed Abdi has reshuffled chief officers to enhance efficiency and improve services to residents. Abdullahi Ibrahim was moved from livestock and veterinary services to education and vocational training, the governor said in a press statement on Friday. His place will be taken by Bishar Eymoy who has been in charged of fisheries, resilience and alternative livelihood programmes. Noor Mohamed was moved from medical services to roads, transport and infrastructure with Abdirahman Abdille taken away from public health and sanitation to trade, investment, industrial and cooperative development. Hussein Mohamed who has been in charge of roads, transport and infrastructure was moved to natural resources, minerals, forestry, tourism and wildlife. Abdirahman Omar moves from education and vocational training to special programmes and donor coordination. Abdi also moved Abdirahman Adan from youth empowerment, sports development and library services to environment and energy department with Ahmed Omar becoming the new medical services chief officer. He has been in charge of trade, investment, industrial and cooperative development. Adan has swapped places with Mohamed Osman. Rahma Omar was moved from economic planning, budget and statistics to project implementation and service delivery. His previous docket has been taken by Farhiya Ibrahim who has been in charge of public service, labour relations and intergovernmental affairs. Abdullahi Hassan is the new chief officer for public health. He has been in charge of special programmes and donor coordination. Mohamed Salat is taking over the finance and audit services docket from project implementation and service delivery. Bare Idris has been moved to public service and labour relations, taking over from Ibrahim who will be in chare of natural resources, minerals, forestry, tourism and wildlife. Irrigation chief officer Khalif Abdi will also act as chief officer for fisheries, resilience and alternative livelihood programmes. “The handing and taking over reports must be done urgently and witnessed by respective county executives,” Abdi said.