Lessons learnt from past failures and challenges seemed to have been positively embraced — which put the operation well within the brackets of excellence. From excellence in coordination of various moving parts to the swift response by assault, teams charged with the very surgical hostage rescue operation (Recce from the NPS and 30 KSF from KDF). The seamless interoperability of these forces and maintenance of operational momentum that ended the siege in record time — backed up with periodic briefs about the facts on the ground, and of course, public goodwill and patriotism — minimised carnage and property destruction. All these factors and results, if judged side by side with past operations, score DusitD2 well above the rest. It is worth establishing as a solid benchmark for future operations. The Special Forces' Speed, Surprise, Aggression (SAS) were exhibited in all facets of DusitD2's crisis management. War and counter-terrorism operations are very complex. They throw into the game a lot of uncertainties, chaos, heavy psychological impact on victims, in addition to the loss, and/or potential loss of life and destruction of property. Being a multi-agency operation, key issues were operational mutuality/exploitation of inter-dependencies, exacting execution of specified tasks in ways not disruptive to the other moving parts' engagements and seamless hand/takeover to ensure maintenance of operational momentum. Additionally, the general populace leveraged the operations with a steady stream of new intelligence, pinpointing to rescue and combat agencies where individuals were hidden. Even more in post-incident management the reveled the habitation and possible hideouts of the terrorists and their sympathisers. All this was thanks to  to shored-up patriotism and social media that was positively put to use, for the most part. We can be a lot better with just being more switched on. It's a fact that the terrorists, in a rather careless manner, drove to a surveillance spot in DusitD2's immediate neighbourhood more than enough times, looking suspicious, and we missed an opportunity to act on this information. This is symptomatic of how we are acculturated and socialised as a society — there is a lack of vigilance and instincts about security issues.  Ex-Special Forces soldier, spokesman for Association of Corporate and Industrial Security Professionals, spoke to the Star  