A court on Monday found four of the five suspects charged with the murder of 150 people at the Garissa University on April 2, 2015 have a case to answer. The suspects are Mohamed Abikar, Edin Hassan, Sahal Diriy, Osman Dagane and Tanzanian Rashid Mberesero. Dagane was acquitted of all the offences. Chief magistrate Francis Andayi found the four others will have to stand trial over the terrorist attack that killed 150 people. The suspects had also been charged with being members of the terrorist group al Shabaab and being unlawfully in Kenya. A total of 22 witnesses testified against them including students who survived the attack. Postmortem reports of 125 bodies were presented before the court as an exhibit during the trial of the suspects. State counsel Carol Sigei had said the direct and circumstantial evidence was salient enough to find the suspects guilty. Sigei said the five suspects who were arrested with the assistance of the National Intelligence Service were in active communication with their four accomplices. See more: How Garissa university attacks were planned and executed The four were found dead by the Anti Terror Police Unit officers at the university's compound. Sigei said phone data analysis showed that one mobile phone found on one of the slain terrorist's body was found to have communicated with four of the suspects hours before the dawn attack. Sigei said a notebook found in Mberesero's bag at a mosque near the university was written in his handwriting showing he supported Jihad. A witness testified that he found him unusually peculiar at the day of the attack and left behind his bag. Abikar was arrested by KDF officers in Mandera after the NIS informed the military of his movements. He was aboard a PSV bus headed to Mandera town. The suspects' lawyer Mbugua Mureithi said Dagane was a watchman and an employee of the university who was only visiting. The case will be mentioned on February 13 for mitigation before sentencing. Read: Major ruling due for Garissa University terror suspects Click here for the latest political news