An MP has denied he received Sh1 million from Deputy President William Ruto to organise the Batsotso Cultural Festival. Five Lurambi MCAs on Sunday boycotted the celebrations at Matioli secondary school accusing their  MP Lurambi,  MP Titus Khamala, and the Batsotso Cultural Festivals chairman Isaac Otundo of using the event to solicit cash from leaders for personal gains. Joab Mwamto (Sheywe), Mathew Nyangweso (Butsotso East), Walter Andati (Butsotso South), Boniface Akosi (Shinoyi/Shikomari) and Scolastica Ngina (nominated) said they had not been invited, adding that the MP only surrendered Sh200,000 to the organisers of the event. Maendeleo Democratic Party leader Amisi Omukanda claimed the MCAs had skipped the event because the MP had collected cash from the DP and failed to share it with them. But Khamala said in Kakamega yesterday: “I gave the organisers of the festivals Sh200,000 from my pocket. I want the DP to summon these MCAs and tell them that he never gave me money.” He accused   the ward reps of engaging in a smear campaign after falling out with the electorate. The MP said he had no control over the festival since it was an annual event which had been commemorated even before he was elected. Batsotso is one of the 18 sub-tribes of the Luhya community. “I am an MP and it beats logic for someone to say that I cannot give Sh200,000 when I earn a salary. These people should find their own way of getting back their lost political support,” he said. The MCAs demanded that the current officials of the cultural event be replaced. “We do not know who elected these people into office. Most of the officials we knew have since died and no elections have been held since then,” Akosi said. He said each of the 16 clans of the Batsotso should produce three people to elect a new council. Ngina said it was unfortunate that the current office had decided to hold three events on different dates instead of the traditional December 31. Politicians use the annual cultural festival to seek political support. Leaders from various parts of the country including DP Ruto have in the past attended the event.