The Kipchoge Keino Stadium will be ready to host the World Championships trials in August, according to Sports Cabinet secretary Rashid Echesa. Echesa said he has asked the contractors to speed up works and ensure the facility is available by the time the trials are held in August. Renovations at the stadium have stalled for almost two years due to non payment. “We are here as the government to inspect the ongoing project and we have agreed with the contractors to speed up the stadium so that it can be ready for use,” said Echesa. The CS also said his ministry has a plan to tap talent from the grass root level and such facilities will come in handy. He said the focus will now be on Keino Stadium before moving to the next project. “The North Rift region is known for athletics and other sports hence we would like to see more events held here in order to inspire the youth to take up various disciplines. That is why I have instructed the contractors to speed up the works and deliver the facility within the shortest time possible,” said the CS who was accompanied by Sports Kenya officials. The Eastern wing built by a Chinese contractor, WIETEC Company, is 90 percent complete while Shiv Construction Company is at the foundation level. Works on a four-storey block that was supposed to comprise of a VIP lounge, offices, dressing rooms and other facilities only went on as far as the foundation block. Toilet facilities and the parking lot are yet to be constructed. WIETEC Company had been initially awarded the tender to construct VIP pavilion, terraces, changing rooms and parking lot at the stadium but things changed the moment the stadium was named as one of the venues to host the aborted Africa Nations Cup last year. The CS also toured a proposed site for another stadium with County government officials asking the CS to assist in putting up the facility before proceeding to Kamariny Stadium in Iten, Elgeyo Marakwet County. The Uasin Gishu County Deputy Governor Daniel Chemno that they will support the national government in making sure the facility is complete on time. He said the county government has 26 hectares of land and they will negotiate with the Kenya Forest Service and Kenya Prisons Service to get more land for a modern stadium. “We have readily available piece of land where we want the national government to construct another stadium when Kipchoge Keino is done,” said Chemno. He said Kipchoge Keino could not handle the masses during the Olympic Games trials in 2016 hence the need to put up another bigger facility. “Sports is really loved in this region and Kip Keino Stadium lacks the capacity handle the crowds,” he added. “ People here are thirsty for sports and we need to finish the facilities in order to stage more championships,” added the deputy governor.