Many studies done in this country and elsewhere show teens engage in sexual activity from as early as age 11. The truth is that as a society, we cannot wish away the challenge of teen sexual activity and its attendant ramifications. We need to ask ourselves why our teenagers are becoming parents at such an early age. Do we have a remedy, and is it informed by research? Education officers, parents and teachers have been blamed for early pregnancies. But are they solely to blame? As a society don’t we have a role to address what in all shades is a societal problem? The causes of teen pregnancies are many and varied: Poverty, peer pressure, lack of knowledge on sexuality, rape and defilement, social practices that encourage teens being on their own, broken families, drug and substance abuse, outdated cultural practices, lack of parental education, ill-educated teachers to infuse sex education in the curriculum, access to un-vetted digital resources and a permissive society. Have we thought of the hidden consequences: The traumatic stress, the economic costs, physiological damage, school dropout, stigma, STIs and a host of other negatives that all await the teen mother? Many countries have gone through this problem and most have faced it head on. Two poles have emerged on how to solve the problem. Conservatives have called for abstinence while the progressives have advocated introduction of comprehensive sexuality and reproductive health education in the curriculum which should be age appropriate, evidence-based and free of scarring the intended audience. To the progressives, the curriculum should take a win-win approach where the learners are taught on abstinence and sex education. Unfortunately, in many countries (even ours) led by religionists and some conservatives, sex education has been condemned as being above the age of learners both mentally and emotionally. That it is a ticket to plunge the young generation into moral decadence. The liberals see sex education as a step towards empowering the youth to make informed decisions about their sexuality. Human beings are often guided by selfish interest. Many are the times we take lightly our neighbours' pain. The high moral rectitude of those calling for abstinence has been proved to be built on quick sand. Is it fair to leave the poor to worsen their lot by being subjected to further suffering and even at times forcing victims to procure abortions in backstreet clinics where loss of life looms large? The main solution is to introduce comprehensive sexuality education in our curriculum across the learning levels. We can do this as a stand-alone subject or through integration and infusion. Unfortunately for Kenya, religious organisations have been on the forefront in condemning any such attempts. This is not peculiar to Kenya. In the developed world, attempts by such bodies were ignored by the Executive with the support of the Judiciary. The two arms, coupled with an informed citizenry, realised the magnitude of the problem. What we should ensure is that the content is age appropriate and does not encourage any form of sexual orientation that goes against our traditions. Many countries which have taken this approach have greatly reduced the menace of early sexual activity among its teenagers and its attendant consequences. At least in both the 8-4-4 and the competency based curricula a modicum of sex education is addressed. Unfortunately both shy away from addressing the issue robustly due to the backlash it will generate. Kenyans are used to the pharisaic approach to life—drink wine but preach against it. What we need is to go the whole hog and introduce comprehensive sexuality and reproductive health education from the early years to tertiary institutions. Of course the issue of sex education should not only be a preserve of teachers. This should take a multi-stakeholder approach. We should also encourage self and peer education among the adolescents. Efforts by the Ministry of Education to beef up guidance and counselling in schools are encouraging. We should also introduce stiff penalties for adults who prey on adolescents. Teaches at the School of Education, Moi University ndaloagumba@yahoo.com