Boat operators in Lamu want the government to lift a ban on night water transport. The ban has been in existence for the last eight years having been imposed shortly after the abduction of British couple David Tebutt, 58, and his wife Judith Tebutt at the Kiwayu Safari Village Resort in Lamu East in September 2011. Tebutt was shot dead during the kidnap and his wife taken hostage in what was believed to be the first ever Al Shabaab invasion in Lamu. Since the ban was effected, travelers from far-flung islands have had to ensure they make it to their destinations during daytime alone. The most affected are long distance boat operators plying major islands such as Pate, Kiunga, Mkokoni, Kiwayu, Faza, and Kizingitini. Terror incidents on the Indian Ocean are uncommon compared to those happening on roads and villages. The operators argue that the ban is completely unwarranted having lasted this long. Speaking in Lamu on Tuesday, the operators said as opposed to road transport, it was difficult to limit water to a certain period of the day owing to the fact that movement at sea is largely determined by tides, seasons and the weather. They say business is bad because many long-distance travelers preferred making their journeys at night when its cool and the ocean is much calmer than during the daytime. Kidege Mbwana, a long distance boat captain says for them to avoid eating into restricted time, many operators often travel hurriedly making it dangerous altogether as each one struggles to beat the government's deadline. The operators want to be allowed to operate for 24 hours as they had previously. They say it doesn’t make sense for security offices to claim the region is safe but at the same time forbid them from resuming night travel. The ban ensures all boat operators are supposed to be off the waters by 8 pm. “Operating within those timelines is challenging considering we have to go with the weather at sea. It's not like we are in control, the tides determine our movements and its very hard. The business is generally not that good like before. Its been eight years and we believe the ban has achieved what it was intended for, its time they let us do business without restrictions,” Mbwana said. The operators instead urged the government to improve surveillance at sea and allow them to travel at night. Shumra Kassim, who plies the Kiunga-Ishakani route on the Lamu-Somalia border, says the surveillance will enable security officers to closely monitor the situation and take prompt action. Operators plying border areas such as Ishakani, Kiunga, Mkokoni, and Kiwayu have had a difficult time as security officers insist they must be out of the ocean as early as possible to pave way for the marine patrols at night. “They can allow us back at night but still be able to do their surveillance while keeping a close eye on the situation just in case," Kassim said. All of the terror attacks in Lamu have either happened on roads where IEDs and ambushes are set up, or in villages where suspected militants have descended on villages, schools, and mosques. There have however been reports of suspected Al Shabaab militants posing as fishermen or boat transporters and ferry radicalised youth from Lamu into Somalia and back. Click here for the latest political news