Gun holders in Nairobi will undergo mandatory vetting starting Monday, February 4, to March 7. Vetting in other regions will take place at a  later date. During the exercise, one will be required to have all supporting documents for all guns, firearms and bullets. Licence holders have been informed to book online @ www.firearms.or.ke. Firearm Licensing Board Charles Mwongera Mukindia on Thursday said upon verification, gun holders shall undergo a gun ballistic analysis at the DCI headquarters. However, The Kenya Defence forces, Kenya Police Service, Kenya Prison service, Kenya wildlife service, National Intelligence service, Kenya forest service and other senior government services will be exempted from this exercise. The exempted groups will be required to apply and get an ID number from Police Pavillion in South C  then proceed for the ballistic analysis at the DCI. Qualified licence holders will receive their new licence smart card after 10 working days. On Jan 21, licensed civilian firearm holders were given up to March 18 to acquire special identification cards introduced by the Interior ministry. Interior CS Fred Matiang'i said the cards will be fitted with chips that will contain the personal details of holders. On Monday, National Gun Owners Association withdrew an injunction barring the process after a meeting with Interior ministry CS Fred Matiang’i. “There was good understanding in the meeting and we understood where the government was coming from. They also understood where we were coming from,” Wahome said after the meeting that was also attended by the NGAO legal team. “The CS assured us and undertook that no member of NGAO who has a valid firearm certificate and is holding firearms legally would suffer any arbitrary revocation of their firearm license.” Civilian firearms holders must appear in person before the Firearms Licensing Board for vetting. Read: Civilian gun holders to face mandatory vetting from December 17 - Matiang'i Read more:Firearm holders to get special ID cards - Matiang'i