Fresh from bagging sevens points at the Hamilton Sevens over the weekend, Kenya Sevens have been drawn in a tricky Pool ‘B’ for the Sydney leg of the World Series where they face USA, Canada and France. Shujaa showed signs of improvement in Hamilton, where they reached the Challenge Trophy final. Shujaa lost 10-29 to South Africa and 10-19 to Scotland in their first two preliminary matches but recovering to beat France 19-15 in the last. They then beat Tonga 19-12, Argentina 24-7 before losing to England 36-7 in the Challenge Trophy final. Kenya lie in 13th place with 11 points, three behind France as the series shifts to Australia. Rookie Johnstone Olindi was the star of the side as he scored two tries in the 19-12 win over Tonga with skipper Jacob Ojee getting on the scoresheet as Olindi added two conversions. Against the Pumas, skipper, Jacob Ojee landed a brace on either side of Argentina’s only try by Matteo Carreras. Cyprian Kuto and Brian Wahinya grabbed one apiece as Daniel Taabu converted twice. Argentina led 7-5 at half time. Paul Murunga’s charges struggled in the final against England as Dan Bibby, TB Bowen and Dan Norton claimed a brace each with Vincent Onyala getting a consolation try for Kenya. Murunga was satisfied with the team performance and the hopes to carry the momentum to the Sydney leg this weekend. The boys have played well. They have steeped up and we have momentum to take to Sydney with the hope of getting more points” added Murunga. He expressed confidence that the side can make it to the main cup quarterfinals as the season progresses. “This is very young squad. They are learning fast but I see light at the end of the tunnel. We will get there,” added Murunga Murunga said the team need to minimise the errors to make it to the main cup quarters. “If you look at the two games we lost to South Africa and Scotland, we made mistakes and we got punished by very experienced teams “ added Murunga Pools ‘A’ Fiji, Samoa, England Japan ‘B’ USA , Kenya, Canada, France ‘C’ New Zealand, Scotland, Spain, Wales ‘D’ South Africa, Australia, Argentina 16th team.