Although the official
position of the Electoral Commission in the DRC is that the outcome of the
presidential election will be announced this Sunday, January 6, it is already
clear from the provisional returns that Felix Tshisekedi of the Union for
Democracy and Social Progress has won the election. The DRC has 26
provinces. Tshisekedi won in 14 of these provinces with a large margin of
popular votes averaging 48 per cent of the total votes. Next to him is Martin
Fayulu, with 25 per cent of the popular votes gained mainly from the 10
provinces he carried. Emmanuel Ramazani
Shadary, Joseph Kabila's protégé, garnered 22 per cent of the popular votes and
carried only two provinces. The two opposition
candidates have agreed to work together in the post-election period. Between
them, they have majority support of the 24 out of 26 provinces and a total of
73 per cent of the popular vote. This is a comfortable and solid majority. In his first public
address after knowing these provisional results, Tshisekedi appealed to the
Congolese people to embrace this opposition victory as a victory for peace,
security, national unity, justice, democracy and an opportunity to rebuild the
DRC after decades of war and the death of over six million Congolese. He
further made it clear that, together with Martin Fayulu and all comrades in the
opposition, they are willing to extend an arm of national reconciliation to the
departing Kabila government in the interest of a stable, peaceful and
democratic DRC. In other words, we can as well say that a broad united democratic
front will provide the framework for Tshisekedi's government. What is emerging is a
high possibility of having a popular, very enlightened and capable leadership
that will bring back democratic governance and national reconstruction that the
DRC so badly needs. DRC is the second
largest country in Africa after Algeria, the largest in sub-Saharan Africa and
11th largest in the world. Her size, however, is
not for naught. It has a population of 82 million people, 5.4 million whom she
has lost in internal wars and conflicts, with another 4.5 million displaced
since 1996, thereby retarding her development. Please also remember that this
vast nation prides herself of being the world's richest home of untapped
deposits of raw minerals. If you speak of coltan, the DRC has 70 per cent of
the global deposits, while 33 per cent of the world's cobalt is in the
DRC. Not forgetting 50 per cent of diamond reserves and 10 per cent of copper. At independence in 1960,
the then Belgian Congo, which subsequently became known as Congo Kinshasa, was
the second most industrialised country in Africa after South Africa. But years
of internal conflicts, corruption, political instability and economic and
social decay have rendered the DRC one of the poorest. What is currently
ravaging the Congolese people as Ebola is not simply a health problem. It is
first and foremost political. It is bad politics that led to the break down of
the physical and social infrastructure. Time has now come to
build a DRC that will not have the menace of Ebola because, with good
governance and a responsible use of public resources, the country will enter a
new epoch of democracy and social progress. The name of Tshisekedi's
political party is not accidental. A national union for democracy and social
progress is what the DRC badly needs. This is the African political and
ideological framework for nurturing social democracy. In essence, we are
encouraging a new DRC where the private sector will thrive, while supportive of
public initiatives to eradicate poverty, ignorance and disease. Having lived in Europe,
and conscious of the achievements of social democracy in Western Europe since
the Second World, Tshisekedi's team should definitely have the intellectual
wherewithal to change the DRC for the better. This will not only be good for
the Congolese but also have some osmotic impact within the region. We as East Africans
cannot stand aloof in the noble effort to transform the DRC. Following the
political turmoil after the assassination of Patrice Lumumba, Congo's first
Prime Minister, Mzee Jomo Kenyatta, through his Foreign minister Joseph
Murumbi, did his best to support progressive nationalism in that country. But
imperialist manipulations were too strong. And that manipulation produced and
sustained the despicable and bankrupt Mobutu regime. Let this unfortunate
history not be repeated this time round.