Security officers yesterday continued combing the 14 Riverside Drive complex attacked by terrorists on Tuesday as it emerged that all the 19 people reported missing had been accounted for. A contingent of Kenyan security forces camped at the terror attack site with bomb experts and sniffer dogs. Police said they believed there were no more people trapped inside DusitD2 hotel or surrounding office buildings after the 20-hour operation in which some 700 civilians were rescued. Police have warned the public that there may be loud controlled explosions as they continued their sweep of the hotel to clear it of any explosives. Offices housed in the complex remained closed the whole of yesterday as police continued to cordon off the crime scene for the third day running. Gunmen with the al-Qaeda-linked Somali militant group al-Shabaab attacked the DusitD2 hotel and office complex on Tuesday afternoon. The Kenya Red Cross yesterday said all the people had been accounted for. Read: Car with same number Plate as that in Dusit attack impounded in Kajiado “All 94 cases have been closed positively as of (now),” it said in a statement at 12:30 giving no further details. President Uhuru Kenyatta said on Wednesday evening that a 20-hour siege had ended with security forces killing all the attackers But even as Red Cross confirmed that all people had been accounted for, many families who had not seen their loved ones remained anxious at Chiromo mortuary. “It’s painful that we’ve resorted to visit the morgue as a final option,” a relative who broke down before giving more details said. His family is missing more than one person. “We’re just officials and have to follow protocol,” an official would be heard explaining. “Maybe they are not of the same father. Let us cooperate,” the official added. The death toll is currently at 21 after six more bodies were retrieved on Wednesday night at the complex. Among the dead is a police officer. Read: 2 Dusit killers were from Kiambu, Nyeri Click here for the latest political news