A 2019 KCSE candidate is among three suspects who will be charged with the murder of a physics teacher. Peter Omari, 32, was murdered around 10.30pm on Thursday, just after he arrived home from school, where he had been supervising night preps. He was killed behind his house in what police believe was a revenge mission. “I was about to sleep when I heard commotions and then a loud scream at around 10pm. On responding we found the teacher writhing in pain next to his house,” said Peter Kimani, a neighbour. “We found him bleeding behind his house. He had been hit on the head with a heavy blunt object that opened his skull. He died just before we could rush him to hospital.” MOBILE PHONE Earlier in the day, the teacher had confiscated a mobile phone from the arrested student as the other two suspects were sneaking it to him over the school fence. Omari was a teacher at Hopewell Secondary School in Barut, Nakuru county. Police believe the two suspects decided to waylay the teacher. In 2017 the two were caught sneaking a mobile phone to another student. The teacher’s widow is a matron at Three
suspects among them a from four student from Hopewell
secondary  school in Barut, Nakuru county  are set to be arraigned
in  court in connection to the brutal
murder of a physics teacher from the school. The
32 year old teacher was murdered at around 10.30pm last night moments after
returning home from school where he had been supervising night preps. Peter
omari was killed behind his house in what police believe to be a revenge
mission. “I was about to sleep when I head commotions
and then a loud scream at around 10pm and on responding they found the teacher
writhing in pain next to his house. We found him lying in a pool of blood behind
his house. He had been hit on the head with a heavy blunt object that opened up
his skull. He died a few minutes before we could rush him to hospital,” said Pete
Kimani, aneighbour.  Earlier
in the day the teacher had confiscated a mobile phone from the arrested student
as it was been given to him by the other two suspects over the fence. Police
believe that  the other two accomplices decided to way lay the
teacher  because in 2017 they had been caught again giving a mobile  phone
to another student. The
teacher’s wife is a matron at hopewell school and had been left behind to see
to it that all students slept well not knowing that attackers were waiting for
his husband across the road where they live. The
School Director Vitalis Kahenda described Omari as a dedicated teacher who was
humble and focused. He
said that drug abuse and consumption of illicit brews is rampant in the area
and sometimes drugs have found their way into the School. The
maseno university student was taking a diploma cause in education at Mt. Kenya
University Nakuru campus. The suspects were arrested in a nearby
homestead which has been an on and off den for illicit brews and drugs.  “In 2017 we found out that people living in
the same homestead were selling drugs to our students. We informed the local
administration who acted on it but it appears to be coming back. There is still
much to do to curb this,” said Kahenda.  Area
chief David Kering said that he was informed about the incident by neighbours
after which he informed the police. Omaris’s
mother Florence Kerubo said that she has lost a loving first born son. She
said that she has spent a lot of money in educating him and had high hopes
in him. His
body is at Nakuru Level five Hospital while the three suspects are being held
at Rhonda police station. Nakuru OCPD Samuel Obara confirmed that the
three suspects were being held at Rhonda Police Station pending investigations.  “Several people have recorded statements on
the matter and we have launched investigations. The suspects will be arraigned
in court the soonest possible,” said Obara.   End
copy/. 