Civil society groups yesterday threatened to mobilise Embu residents over “grounded” county government ambulances. The members of the Citizens Oversight Network, the Embu Reforms Caucus and the Embu Local Urban Forum said the ambulances are grounded in hospitals and garages. They were represented by James Muriuki and Muchangi Njuki of Citizens Oversight Network, John Mugo of Embu reforms Caucus and Josephine Njoki of Local Urban Forum. The lobbyists said residents have been suffering for lack of reliable transport to hospitals. “Some ambulances are grounded because of minor repairs that don’t need a lot of money. We wonder whether the government has no recurrent expenditure cash,” Muriuki said. They said they want to know why the ambulances are not operational, yet the county assembly allocates funds to all departments every year. The group said if the ambulances are not repaired, they will lead residents in a demonstration. They spoke during a press conference at Canan Guest House in Embu town. The civil society members also said there is a shortage of drugs in hospitals. They said when patients seek services in public hospitals, they are told to buy medicine from chemists. Health executive Jamleck Muturi denied the claims, saying all the ambulances are operational and have been serving residents. “Tell the civil society members that if any of them falls sick now, there will be an ambulance to rush him to hospital. Tell them to go to Embu Level 5 Teaching and Referral Hospital and see ambulances are on standby,” Muturi said on the phone. On alleged lack of medicine, he said drugs are regularly supplied to local hospitals. The civil society groups also urged Governor Martin Wambora to talk to MCAs and end a stalemate that threatens to disrupt services. The standoff was the reason the assembly passed a motion preventing the Budget team from discussing allocations. Area politicians have said residents will suffer owing to the bad blood between the assembly and the executive. Last week Senator Njeru Ndwiga and nominated MP Cecily Mbarire blamed the stalemate for the unanimous decision last week to sack two chief officers over alleged corruption. The senator said the county seems to have a communication problem between the executive and the assembly.