Residents of Mombasa city were shocked by the terrorist attack at DusitD2 hotel, in Nairobi having been in a similar situation severely. On Wednesday, President Uhuru Kenyatta said 14 people lost their lives. At least 20 sustained various degrees of injuries. Human rights group working on Countering Violent Extremism in Mombasa congratulated police for their swift action in containing the siege. Muslims for Human Rights condemned the atrocity and urged Kenyans to stay strong in face of terror. “Our prayers and thoughts are with the victim of the attack in Nairobi,” MUHURI said in a statement. “We are encouraged by the courageous and speedy response [taken by] our security agencies and first responders at the scene.” The statement further called for oneness across the multi-ethnic nation at the time of deep heartbreak. Haki Africa said the strike was cowardly. “Such attacks have no place in modern society,” the group said in another statement. Mombasa was first hit in 2002 leading to dozens of travel warnings, consequently leading to an economic slump. Seventeen years ago, terrorists blew up Paradise Hotel killing 13 and injuring 80 others. It was a well-coordinated assault targeting Israelis. The same day, two shoulder-launched surface-to-air missiles were fired at an Israeli charter plane Being 757 airliner. At the hotel, 10 Kenyans and three Israelis died. The group of foreigners were in the facility holidaying. But terrorists struck hard severally as seen almost a decade later: this time militant group Al Shabaab taking responsibilities. The group hired radicalized Kenyan youth – Mujahideen – who carried out bulk of pounces. In 2012, a terrorist fired indiscriminately at revellers at Bella Vista nightclub in Mombasa, killing one woman. She succumbed to chest shot. The assailant hurled three hand grenades leaving at least five patrons seriously injured. June 23, Kenya Navy discovered two explosive devices at the Indian Ocean that were yet to be detonated. A day later, a club in Mishomoroni, Kisauni came under fire. A grenade was cast at Jericho Beer Garden where EUFA European Championships finals was aired. Three people died and close to 30 seriously injured. August that year, a grenade attack killed a police officer and impaired dozen others. June 2013 saw a church in Likoni, Earthquake Miracle Ministries, hit by a grenade. Twelve worshipers were wounded. Nine months later, two people – a Kenyan and Somali – were arrested driving a car with two improvised bombs. May 3, 2014, three people died after twin attacks at Mwembe Tayari and Nyale Reef Hotel. Fatalities were from a bus station at Mwember Tayari. Scores were injured. Twenty days later, a grenade was flinged at police vehicle carrying terror suspects, leaving two injured. The following month, Lamu was targeted in the Mpeketoni massacre orchestrated by Al Shabaab. The Dusit strike appeared to be well handled unlike previous ones. Click here for the latest political news