Secondary school principals have trouble registering Form 1 students because there is duplication of birth certificate numbers. Students are being admitted in Form 1 through the National Education Management Information System. Nemis is an online platform that tracks performance of learners and teaching staff to ensure efficiency and proper use of resources. Sources in the Education ministry say the first cases were recorded last year. They mostly affected learners who acquired birth certificates before the digitisation of the process. Birth registration in Kenya was digitised in 2017. This means the government could be using inaccurate data for planning as thousands of births and deaths records have not been properly documented. Unique code In registering students, principals are first required to enter the learners birth certificate number before the system generates a code. This code is called Unique Personal Identifier. After a student acquires this, the principal can fill-in the student’s biodata. According to the Kenya Secondary Schools Heads Association, the duplication has created an obstacle in registration of students. They want the Ministry of Education to intervene. “We have reported the issue to the ministry and we are awaiting response,” Kesssha chairman Indimuli Kahi told the Star yesterday. He said when learners have identical birth certificate numbers, the the one who registered first in the school ends up being the only one identified. “If you try to register the second student, the system gives you the data of the first student,” Kahi said. Without a birth certificate in Kenya, a child does not officially exist and therefore lacks legal privileges and protection. Only 16m births listed A report released last year shows only 16 million births out of the approximately 50 million Kenyans are captured in the government’s digital records. This means more than half of Kenya’s population is not properly captured in digital formats. The report on Productivity Improvement of Civil Registration Services compiled by experts in June last year further showed that only 589,711 deaths are in the digital records. The report also says there are cases where details of birth certificates, other than the names, are similar, since the documents do not have unique serial numbers.