Details have emerged on how former lands officials grabbed land and allocated it to tycoons and influential government officials at a settlement scheme in Malindi during President Daniel Arap Moi’s regime. The lands officials who had been assigned to adjudicate the Takaye Msoloni settlement scheme reportedly ordered residents to keep off the process as they had "directives from the president to do it alone". Takaye Msoloni Settlement Scheme is a vast scheme with 733 parcels of land of various sizes divided into three maps - 19, 20 and 21 meant to be allocated to locals who had settled there. It comprises land from Takaye, Msoloni, Kajajini and Kivulini mostly inhabited by locals and the prime beach area which was allocated to tycoons. The revelations emerged during a meeting on Thursday convened by the National Land Commission in collaboration with the area MCA Abdurrahman Omar Mohamed and Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa after locals complained of injustices. The MP was not present but sent a representative while NLC was represented by Kilifi coordinator Umi Kugula. According to the locals, there were many irregularities with cases of multiple registrations, overlapping of land and illegal allocation of the prime land to tycoons. Speaking during the meeting at Kivulini Baptist Church, Benjamin Mwambo Kai, a former chairman of the settlement scheme, said the surveyors did the work without involving locals, which caused many irregularities. Mwambo said some people were allocated different parcels of land from where they stay. He said there were also cases of double registration and overlapping of land which affected the ownership. To make matters worse, the residents within the scheme were told the prime land which falls in the beach area was reserved for Kenya Defence Forces and other government institutions. They only later came to learn that the same prime land had been illegally allocated to tycoons. “Since 2000 we have been trying to get the survey process done afresh, so that the illegal land allocations are revoked, and the overlapping, double registrations are rectified,’’ he said. Francis Katana Charo, the current chairman, said Takaye Msoloni settlement scheme had 733 parcels of land from Msabaha to Kivulini area in the beach. “We need fresh adjudication and the allocations done to tycoons at the beach be revoked. We were told the area had been set aside for the military, hospital and other government officials only to find out they had allocated the land to tycoons,’’ he said.  Ganda MCA Abdulrahman Omar Mohamed , NLC Kilifi county cordinator Umi Kugula and senior assistant chief Nichodemus Mwayele during a meeting with residents of Takaye Msoloni Settlement Scheme in Malindi on Thursday, January 10, 2019. /ALPHONCE GARI The area MCA said the fresh survey would be done by locals who understand the native language to avoid such injustices in future. Omar also put the tycoons who were allocated land on notice saying they would not be tolerated as the land shall be given back to the locals. The tycoons he said were allocated plot number 733, 430 and 511 which was unlawful and vowed to ensure the land is given back to the locals. “We want to resolve the problem of double registration, overlapping and ensure everybody get his rightful property. All affected people should be present to witness the process,’’ he said. The MCA said apart from Takaye Msoloni, his office together with the MP and the NLC were also surveying Plot 394 - Kijiwetanga - which is more than 100 acres and with more than 2,000 people. Further he said they are also adjudicating Mazrui land in Msabaha to allocate it to over 5,000 squatters. The NLC coordinator said the process would be done fairly and added more members of the committee will work with the authorities. Click here for the latest political news