I am honoured to be the new Ukraine Ambassador
to Kenya. I have been a career diplomat for more than 25
years, serving in four missions and in the Foreign Ministry, where I have dealt
with International Law, European Integration, United Nations and other international
organisations. I will, therefore, be happy to apply this experience in Nairobi and,
of course, gain more knowledge in the new environment. Being posted in Nairobi provides a unique
opportunity of serving simultaneously as a bilateral and a multilateral
ambassador. For instance, predominant number of foreign envoys to UN in New
York and Geneva deal largely with multilateral agenda, while their bilateral
counterparts are based in Washington DC or Bern respectively. In Vienna, on the
other hand, generally there are two representatives, most often coming from
different backgrounds and even being required to speak primarily either German
or English. Another privilege is that one not only gets a
chance to learn the country, but also in many cases the whole of East Africa
region and sometimes beyond. With Ukraine having only six diplomatic missions
in sub-Saharan Africa, and Kenya considered as a regional hub, I personally
stand a chance to cover eight countries, with Malawi, Comoros and Somalia as a
bonus. Indeed, it’s a huge and demanding foreign
affairs portfolio, where you have to multitask and follow up on a wide array of
issues — developing a programme for a visit by a Foreign Minister of one
country, working on a draft agreement on tourism with another, with election
campaign unfolding elsewhere, Global Pact for the Environment Conference taking
place at the UNON grounds and enjoying a lovely Sunday afternoon working on
this article. The list is inexhaustible. Nevertheless there is a number of priorities
that we have defined, and a set of goals that we are focused on to achieve. Strengthening political ties is a primary task
and I am pleased to observe that our bilateral dialogue with Kenya has steadily
grown, with several recent high-level meetings and visits, including last
year’s official visit to Kenya by Ukraine’s Foreign Minister Pavlo Klimkin,
having solidified these ties. By continuing on the same trajectory, we can
build up truly sincere and reliable relations with Kenya. In this regard, I believe this year’s scheduled
visit to Ukraine by Kenya’s Foreign Affairs CS Monica Juma will become a platform
for cementing our goals, including through concluding several important
bilateral agreements. I am also confident that our cooperation could
further grow by ensuring consistent partnership between our parliaments, through
exchange of visits on the level of speakers and establishment of
inter-parliamentary group of friendship. My other goal, which will help better implement
national interests of our countries, is to work closely with the Kenyan government
and assist it in opening, on the basis of reciprocity, its embassy in Kyiv. My second priority is to improve our economic
relations. Ukraine possesses strong agricultural and manufacturing capacities
and, with 70 per cent of arable lands and 33 per cent of world’s reserves of rich
black-soil, has always served as “bread basket” for Europe. Therefore,
concluding an agreement on establishment of joint commission on trade and a memorandum
on agriculture could help us establish our partnership in these spheres. Also considering Kenya as a leader and a trade
gate to East Africa, we are ready to partner with Kenya on supplying agricultural
products and machinery, as well as products of other industries to the EAC
region. Likewise, bearing in mind our Association
Agreement with EU, Ukraine could potentially become Kenya’s main trade gate to
the European market. The third priority is to take more Kenyan students to Ukrainian
universities. Every year our educational institutions welcome students from
more than 150 countries. Last year we had 64,000 students studying in Ukraine. Today,
foreign students have an opportunity to study in more than 240 universities in
Ukraine and gain degrees not only in popular spheres as ICT, engineering or
medicine but also in other fields. As we work on promoting education
opportunities in Ukraine, we also believe that signing an agreement on
education could make education in Ukraine more accessible for young Kenyans. Tourism is another promising area of our
cooperation. Over the past year we have done a great deal to present the
Ukrainian tourism potential to the Kenyan people. We have simplified procedure
of obtaining visas, reduced the consular fee, introduced an online appeal and
registration system and opened a visa centre. Kenya is also becoming more attractive
destination for Ukrainian tourists with its unique
nature and wildlife. I
believe the main tools that could greatly contribute to this are an Air service
Agreement and an Agreement on tourism. Kenyan security forces were able to provide a quick and professional
response in the recent terror attack, thus greatly reducing the number of
casualties. Ukraine, suffering itself from terrorists, backed by the Russian
Federation, strongly condemns terrorism. Being a member of the UN Security
Council in 2016-17, Ukraine actively supports Kenya’s resolve to continue fighting
against terror. We also believe that when Kenya becomes a member in the
Security Council in 2021-22, it will make significant contribution to the
global fight against terrorism. As a practical step of intensifying our mutual measures of combatting
terrorism, Ukraine and Kenya could also develop a bilateral legal instrument on
preventing terrorism financing. Also, Ukraine could supply various specialised hardware,
such as protective equipment, small arms and light weapons, as well as light and heavy machinery. Lastly, I will be proud to introduce Ukraine to
Kenyans. With our long
history and rich culture and numerous attractions, including seven
Unesco heritage sites, my country’s natural, architectural and cultural beauty
is unmatched. And despite the ongoing Russian aggression against Ukraine, in
particular the recent wave of escalation at sea, we will continue to
use all tools available under the international law to defend our sovereignty and territorial integrity. This month we achieved a long-term and a
long-hoped goal – the Ukrainian Orthodox Church gained its autocephaly which
united the divided Ukrainian Orthodoxy and ensured independence from Russian
patriarchy. This historical event brought to a successful end centuries long
struggle for our national identity. I believe that public diplomacy is one of the
pillars of the diplomatic service as it plays an important role in delivering
the image of a country to the wider community of a host country. I have been in
Kenya for only three months, but I have unequivocally fallen in love with this
magnificent country. I will, therefore, find more time to explore
Kenya better, enjoy its warm climate and beautiful nature, so that I can bring it
closer to Ukraine.  Andrii Pravednyk is the Ukraine Ambassador to Kenya