Luhya MPs are sharply divided over who of their community’s sons to in the contest for Kenya’s next president. One of them, National Assembly Chief Whip Ben Washiali, dismisses former vice-president Musalia Mudavadi as not ripe for president and should instead join Deputy President William Ruto as a running mate. “Emmanuel Wangwe, Bernard Shinali and I were in UDF with Mudavadi and we left after failing to get answers to questions we raised. I will stand with Ruto,” he declared on Saturday during the burial service of former Idakho South councillor Nicholas Mwenesi at Eregi Girls’ High School grounds. Washiali said Mudavadi was unwisely banking on Central Kenya to catapult him to power. According to him, Central Kenya leaders should first apologise to Luhyas for cheating him in 2013. He was reacting to National Former Councillors Forum chairman Geoffrey Gitau’s remark that 2022 presented Luhyas with the best chance to produce a president. “You should just unite and speak with one voice and you’re there. It’s upon yourselves to decide whether you want to auction your chance to Rift Valley or not,” Gitau said. ANC deputy leader and Lugari MP Ayub Savula said those asking Luhya leaders to abandon their ambition and take a second slot were insincere. He said the community has the second largest population and cannot afford to play a second fiddle. A week ago, Savula said that Luhyas were keen on securing the Mt Kenya bloc. He said he would lead negotiations to identify Mudavadi’s running mate from the vote-rich Central Kenya region. Navakholo’s Emmanuel Wangwe said Mudavadi should not be criticised for his presidential ambition. “People should not abuse Mudavadi because he wants to be president. The difference between him and the DP is the pace at which the two are doing it,” he said. Wangwe said that Mudavadi and Kakamega governor Wycliffe Oparanya should campaign so that whoever was more convincing becomes the community’s torch bearer in 2022. Recently Busia governor Sospeter Ojaamong also indicated he would be in the presidential race in 2022. Washiali called for a meeting where elected Luhya leaders will take a common stand. Also at the burial service were Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala, Kakamega Woman Representative Elsie Muhanda, Ikolomani MP Bernard Shinali, MCAs and former Councillors.