Sometime last
year in this column, I predicted that the Jubilee Party would suffer the
inevitable fate of NASA. This was after the handshake. That NASA went before
Jubilee was a function of predisposition rather than luck. Jubilee was held
but by a membrane as strong as jelly whose wall was bound to give way at an
opportune moment. The factors that accelerated the collapse of NASA may be different
in form from those of Jubilee but the circumstances that have ignited and
catalyzed the death of the two are similar and unavoidable. NASA died earlier
because its leaders lacked the state trappings, largesse and leadership
charisma to maintain the forces together. Jubilee, on the other hand, had most
of their leaders in government positions. They, therefore, had the capacity to
absorb the shock of the handshake, albeit on a temporary basis. This shock
absorption was not sustainable and could not outlast the will of the Jubilee
Prince, Uhuru Kenyatta. The chickens have thus come home to roost and the
ruling party can no longer hold at the centre. The disintegration, like NASA’s
case, is assured and irreversible. The crumbling of the Jubilee house is on
account of several factors. The immediate
reason for the collapse of Jubilee is based on its foundations. It was never
established as a party in strict sense of the concept. Parties the world over
are formed as vehicles for interest aggregation and articulation. The ultimate
aim is to influence public policy by either forming the government or
legislation as opposition. The interests are aggregated around ideological
policy frameworks that are espoused more succinctly in the party manifestoes.  Therefore, in mature democracies, citizens
vote for parties based on their campaign platforms, not individual leaders. As may already
be seen, Jubilee’s manifesto was abandoned immediately after the election and
the Big Four agenda crafted instead. This means the current development blue
print cannot be the party campaign platform but remotely an extract. On the
other hand, the earlier coalition in 2013 was not formed on the basis
development ideology. It was established out of fear of the ICC arrests that
threatened the duo of UhuRuto. As they faced charges of crimes against
humanity, fate brought them together and they saw sense in mobilizing their
respective tribes.  It helped matters
that they belonged to the most populous ethnic communities of the country. The
overriding desire was to get voted into office and use both state and
diplomatic influence to ward off the threat of The Hague. Once voted in,
they turned the coalition into a party. The process of merging of the member
parties was coercive, rushed and ignored the principles of organisational
culture development. The party does not meet any of these thresholds as
envisaged in the classical times and practiced in modern times. It thus lacks
self-sustaining mechanisms and thus was always prone to atrophy. The existing
political environment is also not conducive to Jubilee. The events preceding 2017
elections put the country in a tense and violent mood. The main protagonists
split the country into almost two equal parts. These events were supportive of
an abrasive political organisation (Jubilee) to countercheck NASA. However, the
declaration by Raila and Uhuru that they buried the hatchet and resolved to
work together disoriented Jubilee forces. The Building
Bridges Initiative radically altered the political landscape in form and
content. Jubilee mandarins’ clarion calls for annihilation of NASA were no
longer tenable.  All over sudden, leaders
wanted a united and peaceful nation. Across the divide, initiatives were being
made to bring together hitherto political rivals. This created an environment
that was not consistent with the succession agenda of the main players within
Jubilee. The fact that Uhuru is serving his last term also removed the wind
from the sails of Jubilee. In his
determination to bequeath Kenya a positive and lasting legacy, he has chosen to
develop a broader based political structure than the Jubilee Party. He pays
less attention to party officials and their parochial interests. Instead, he
appears keener on bringing on board former opponents in his quest for unity.
Since he has no burden of an election to contend with, he has exhibited freedom
to associate and mingle with any willing partner. He alone wishes to determine
the shape and content of his legacy. That left the Rift Valley bloc to be vanguard
of Jubilee. However, the Rift Valley community is currently spilt between
Deputy President William Ruto and Mzee Daniel Moi. Without the solid Central
Kenya vote bloc, the spilt Rift Valley cannot sustain Jubilee’s bloated
lifestyle. The last factor Ruto’s
ambition and interests. His main concern now is to Uhuru. This desire
inherently requires that he fashions an outfit that is entirely within his
control. It has been demonstrated that Jubilee as currently constituted is in
the hands of people who are hostile to his ambition. It is TNA dominated and
his URP has discovered belatedly that their role is servitude in the party
hierarchy. The presidential
competition in Kenya has become high stakes game. Any candidate worth his salt
will spare no efforts and leave nothing to chance. Out of necessity and need,
Ruto will have to aid the death of Jubilee so that he has a safe excuse and an
excellent opportunity to establish his election vehicle. This will also
help him move from the shadows and misfortunes of his boss, the retiring
president Uhuru. Thus all factors being constant, sooner rather than later
Jubilee will be no more. The current three prime movers of Kenya’s politics
Raila, Uhuru and Ruto will have a clean slate to write their political futures
and legacies.  Kanyadudi is a political and public policy analyst