Veteran Tusker coach Robert Matano will be looking to end Mathare United’s unbeaten run when the two sides clash in a Kenyan Premier League match at Ruaraka grounds this afternoon. The brewers are third on the log with 13 points, one behind their match day opponents but Matano has downplayed the title favorites’ tag insisting that he will approach each game at a time. “We have prepared for the match just like the others as we hope to continue with our good run. We do not have injury setbacks and we strongly believe we will carry the day. It’s too early to predict who will win the league since we have more than 25 matches to go and I think the best thing to do is to focus at each game at a time,” said Matano. Statistics between the two sides favour the brewers, who have won five of the last ten meetings, succumbing twice to Mathare with the rest being draws. Meanwhile, Mt Kenya intensify their chase for their maiden win of the season when they play unbeaten Bandari at Afraha Stadium. Anthony Mwangi’s sit bottom of the table with just two points from six matches and will face a Herculian task against fourth-placed Bandari (12 points). The match will later pave way for a match pitting AFC Leopards against a winless KCB. Leopards have collected seven points from six matches and are currently placed tenth while the bankers are second from last with two points. Kakamega Homeboyz will host Zoo Kericho at Bukhungu Stadium aiming to take their tally to ten points. Homeboyz are ranked ninth with seven points while Zoo come 15th with five points. Tomorrow, Sofapaka will be scratching for their second win of the season when they tackle Vihiga United at Bukhungu Stadium. Under the stewardship of Melis Medo, the 2009 league champions have had a start to forget, where they sit 12th with six points after winning just one of their six matches so far. It will be a case of who will blink first when two unbeaten sides, Kariobangi Sharks and Western Stima, lock horns at Kenyatta Stadium, Machakos. Stima, who made their way back to the top flight after a year in the second tier, have had an impressive start, winning four out their six matches thus far to sit second with 14 points. Sharks on the other hand have collected 10 points to rank sixth. Posta Rangers will be out to redeem themselves following a 2-1 midweek loss to Gor Mahia when they host Chemelil Sugar in Machakos. It will be John Kamau’s third game in charge since he took over the reigns and the youthful tactician will hope to guide the mailmen to their third win of the season against the sugarmen, 16th with three points. Former champions Ulinzi Stars will be on a mission to redeem themselves from a disappointing start when they confront Sony Sugar at Awendo Stadium. Ulinzi have sunk to a unfamiliar 13th place in the standings with six points while Sony, who have proved hard to beat at their backyard, are seventh with 10 points.