A lobby wants the National Land Commission to explain how it acquired land for mega projects. Land Development and Governance Institute (LDGI) yesterday urged the government to audit the NLC’s operations in the past six years. The term of the current commissioners expires on February 19. They took the oath of office in February 2013. The commission has written to the National Assembly requesting for an extension. But LDGI chairman Ibrahim Mwathane wants the hiring of new commissioners to start. He said the NLC has suffered a major dent in its image. Land acquisition is the NLC’s key activity and a thorough investigation is in order, Mwathane says in a report. “Depending on the number and the magnitude of the projects for which land must be acquired, compensation for compulsorily acquired land can exert a lot of pressure on the commission and its technical officers,” he said. The implication of the compensation process to Kenya’s development, particularly the time and money it takes, remains a great concern. Mwathane, who was accompanied by the institute’s executive director Mwenda Makathimo, said the audit will reveal the NLC’s capacity to discharge its mandate and provide a platform for institutional and policy changes that would improve efficiency. Compulsory land acquisition calls for strict technical and financial supervision and accountability, he said. The NLC has been fraught with infighting involving commissioners and secretariat staff. It has also been on the spot for alleged inflation of compensation figures. Mwathane also poked holes on its structure, citing claims its directorates are unnecessarily many. He wants the structure streamlined and staff assigned clear roles. “When it came to recruitment, there was seeming block migration of the previous land administration staff in the lands department from the ministry to the commission,” Mwathane said. He blamed the mass transfer for the eventual adoption of the “old culture and attitudes” by the NLC. Despite being relatively new, the NLC lacks new business methods and culture to land administration, he said. The report says the conflict between the ministry and the commission over space led to deterioration of services, especially renewal of land leases. “Even as they leave office, there’s no clarity on the process of lease preparation, a matter that has caused confusion and delays for landowners and investors,” Mwathane said. The institute warned against rapid replacement of the commission CEO, warning that it ruins operations. It has had three in six years. Mwathane however praised the NLC for reviewing grants and disposition of public land.