Doctors at the Kenyatta National Hospital have reattached and constructed the penis of a Form 3 student, which had been chopped off a month ago by a thug. The seven-hour procedure involved a team of 15 multidisciplinary specialists. It was the first penile reattachment at KNH, the country’s largest referral hospital. The 16-year-old boy was attacked by an unknown person on December 18. The attacker chopped off his penis at the base near the scrotum using a kitchen knife. The boy, eldest in his family, was referred to KNH from a county hospital. The operation at KNH was performed on December 19. The doctors included specialists in plastic surgery, urology and neurosurgery. They were led by Professor Stanley Khainga and Dr Ferdinand Nang’ole of KNH. The boy is still admitted but could be discharged in two weeks. Doctors said the patient arrived weak and in trauma, having bled heavily. He was, however, in a stable condition. Read also: KNH medics reattach boy's cut off hand in historic surgery FIRST LIVER TRANSPLANT They said the boy can urinate and engage in sexual gratification. “We’re happy to report that the patient is recuperating well after a successful re-implantation of the penis. He is reporting erection and the length is good,” Khainga said. Acting CEO Thomas Mutie congratulated the team, saying the procedure was a medical milestone not only in Kenya but also in the region. “KNH is at the front line of medical science. We have been able to perform over 10 reconstructive surgeries and are on course to do the first liver transplant in the country,” Mutie said. He said the hospital has the best doctors in the country, including those who recently re-attached a boy’s severed arm. Khainga said they will train more plastic and micro-vascular surgeons to build capacity in county hospitals. A Korean university is partnering with University of Nairobi and KNH surgeons to share experiences on plastic and reconstructive surgery, he said. South Korea is famous for cosmetic and other reconstructive surgeries. Previously, a patient with a severed penis sought reconstruction but that was impossible because those who attacked him threw away the organ. “The surgeons had to use other means to help him,” Khainga said. The operation adds to a list of surgical milestones by KNH doctors over five years. In February last year, the hospital announced that its doctors had successfully reattached the arm of a 17-year-old boy. Joseph Theuri’s hand was accidentally severed by a chaff cutter machine. Read: Nairobi traffic almost thwarted surgery to reattach boy’s hand Click here for
the latest political news