Six ODM lawmakers have told off Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria for accusing President Uhuru Kenyatta of ignoring Kiambu in terms of development. Kuria, on the New Year eve, said Uhuru was commissioning projects in other parts of the country but only issued certificates to reformed alcoholics when in Kiambu. He cited the President’s recent tour of Nyanza where he commissioned roads. MPs Paul Abuor (Rongo), Samuel Atandi (Alego Usonga), Antony Oluoch (Mathare), Martin Owino (Ndhiwa), James Nyikal (Seme) and Millie Odhiambo (Suba North) said Kuria’s remarks undermined Uhuru’s efforts to unite the country. Kuria said Uhuru had reduced Central Kenya to a Jubilee voting block without development. “The President is elected for the entire country,” Abuor told the Star by the phone on Friday. He said such arguments were madeby leaders without an agenda for the electorate. He accused Kuria of sowing seeds of hatred and discord. “Such politicians thrive on politics of deceit and mudslinging,” Abuor said. Oluoch, Nyikal and Odhiambo told Kuria to stop starting politics that drive a wedge between communities. ‘’Even if President Uhuru decides to preside over the launch of projects in Nyanza, isn’t the region part of Kenya?” Odhiambo asked. Oluoch said Kuria’s statement was meant to undermine the President and the spirit of handshake aimed at uniting Kenyans for peace and development. ‘’The President made it clear that they have decided to work together with ODM leader Raila Odinga for the sake of peace and development. Nothing is sinister in that move,’’ he said. SILENT DISQUIET Atandi said the handshake has united the country and that the harmony being enjoyed by Kenyans will be Uhuru’s main legacy. ‘’If Jubilee leaders are out to undermine the President’s legacy in the House we will stand united as ODM to ensure it succeeds,” Atandi said. The MPs said the handshake was not about 2022 succession politics. ‘’We are saying no to ethnic polarisation. We will not accept statements aimed at creating divisions among Kenyans just because of politics of greed,’’ Odhiambo said. The lawmakers said Nyanza, just like any other region, deserved development projects. ‘’If anything, Nyanza has suffered socio-economic and political marginalisation for many years,” Abuor said. Kuria spoke amid silent disquiet that Uhuru has neglected Mt Kenya region that overwhelmingly supported his reelection. The handshake has gained momentum with leaders from opposition strongholds asking for development projects. On Wednesday, Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka asked Deputy President William Ruto to initiate development projects in Western.