Since the
reintroduction of multiparty politics in 1991, Kenya has acquired the distinct
reputation of being on electoral campaign mood every year. Visitors to the
country are normally confounded on the cyclic political tension all year round.
 The mood and mode of the nation are
usually pulsating to degrees associated with an election year. President Daniel
Moi sought to dissipate the tension elicited by the disputes of the 1997
election without much success. This he did by entering into an alliance with
then leader of National Development Party, Raila Odinga. This alliance later
led to the merger of NDP and Kanu and the eventual defeat of the ruling party in
2002. However, the
alliance could not slow the political rumbles as Raila was not the opposition
leader. Mwai Kibaki was. Kibaki suffered the same fate during the coalition
government as the two sides took more time to settle. By the time they did
something significant by delivering the 2010 Constitution, ICC came calling
through the Ocampo Six envelope. The suspects organised countrywide prayer
rallies that went well into the general election. The country has, therefore,
consistently been on an annual divisive electoral mode for more than three
decades. It is this schism that Uhuru and Raila seek to undo through the
handshake? The intention is to unite the country and deliver an election devoid
of tribal balkanisation and political violence. Looking at the
New Year, factors seem to work in tandem to alter the familiar landscape for
the better. The main political players are preoccupied with self-imposed
assignments that will deny the citizens the usual drama of Kenyan politics.
President Uhuru Kenyatta is determined to secure his legacy, and has since
repackaged the Jubilee manifesto into the Big Four agenda. The delivery of
this blueprint requires undivided attention and focus of his core team. He needs
to build consensus among his team and inspire confidence within the public
service cadres. This demands dedicated efforts and round the clock monitoring,
as well as prompt remedial steps. He has the advantage and disadvantage of
being the Founding President’s scion. His father was not only revered but also
credited for establishing the foundations of the nation. These foundations have
lasted the country this long albeit with some serious setbacks on occasions. He
has chosen to return the nation to where it was at Independence in terms national
unity. It is this desire that led him to broker the handshake deal with his
perennial bitter rival Raila Odinga. While Raila has
also pledged unflinching commitment to the realisation of the ideals of the
Building Bridges Initiative, more is expected from Uhuru. As president, he has
the trappings of state power and the success of the project relies more on him.
He is serving his last term as President and, therefore, has no encumbrances of
reelection. Whatever he desires to do as part of his legacy must be done
between January 2019 and December 2021. He, therefore, does not have the luxury
of playing, entertaining or encouraging high-octane politics. He will be keen
to see a peaceful country devoid of polarising politics. He will as well seek
to ensure that his preferred political environment prevails. On the other
hand, Raila has just managed to reinvent himself and pull out of the hitherto
inevitable political obliteration. When he swore himself as the People’s President
against the counsel of his fellow NASA principals, he demonstrated he alone
knew what the future held for the country. He set himself apart from the NASA
brigade and created an opportunity to determine his next course of action. The
economic sabotage through the selective boycott of goods and services helped
heighten the tensions. The series of the Peoples’ Assembly launch raised the
stakes to the breaking point. Then he snapped out and shook hands with the President
and declared that the country is bigger than both Uhuru and himself. The launch
of the Building Bridges Initiative caught Kenyans by surprise and main
political players flat-footed. He created space to reorganise his troops and
breather to regain political energy. Over the years, he
has established himself as the quintessential master of political chessboard.
He is not about to exit the political scene. He has a legacy to secure on
account of the long experience he has built. Like his newfound brother Uhuru,
he is also a scion of the founding Vice President Jaramogi Oginga Odinga. He is
desirous to bequeath to Kenyans a more united nation as their fathers had
envisioned and missioned. Yet his efforts at succeeding where his father
floundered have not borne fruits. He considers that he still has a reasonable
chance at being Kenya’s Fifth President. This appears to be his best chance for
the fourth time courtesy of the handshake. He, therefore,
must develop a comeback game plan. The images that Kenyans have of Tinga
(bulldozer) and Nyundo (hammer) are destructive and intimidating. In these
circumstances, Raila would be the last person to stoke the embers of political
volatility this year. The more peaceful the country is the more space he has to
concretize his game plan for 2022 and beyond. The handshake
threw the succession plans of Deputy President William Ruto into total
disarray. The DP has not concealed his resentment for the Building Bridges
Initiative. His handlers and supporters have spared no chance to castigate the
proponents of the initiative. What seemed to have been a well laid out succession
plan has been scuttled by a single stroke of the handshake magic pen. Yet, as
the Deputy President, he is the heir apparent and cannot sit back and watch his
investment of over three decades go up in flames just like that. He needs a
conducive environment to retreat and come back with the necessary momentum. He
will have to reorganise his troops and develop new strategies. Constant public
spats and political war mongering from his quarters have proved ineffective in
controlling the handshake juggernaut. Displaying open hostility towards Raila,
while at the same time blackmailing Uhuru, will only help to isolate him. He
needs to reposition himself as a co-architect of the current harmony and
tranquility being enjoyed in the country. His handlers will need to learn from
the mistakes of Raila and remove the tag of reckless bulldozer from him. His
recent initiation into bull fighting by his new found ally, Boni Khalwale may
be counterproductive for his 2022 vision. He will need to demonstrate
passion for the fight against corruption and embrace the national unity
project. These shifts will require a lot of strong will from the inner depths
of the person of William Ruto. The ideal environment would be a country that is
not engaged in daily political ruckus. Therefore, the Deputy President will
find it prudent to initiate activities that will calm the nation to allow him
space to re-strategize. Last year treated
Kenyans to melodrama of high-profile government officials hauled before courts
on corruption charges. These arrests have helped to restore some level of
public confidence in the justice system. It demonstrated the government’s
resolve to slay the dragon of corruption at the head and scatter the base. A
lot is still expected this year in concluding these cases. If there are some
more big fish remaining, they must be fewer than the arrests made last year. As a natural
consequence of the government determination, the cartels will proceed into
hibernation. They will avoid confrontation with the law enforcers. At all costs,
they may tactfully resist the temptation to engage in graft for the time being all
the while hoping that things will soon cool down. This is a survival instinct
prone to all living organisms. Kenyans will, therefore, miss the television
display of dramatic arrests of high profile corruption suspects arrested last
year. They will also miss the political tensions and theatrics of yore. For
good measure, the economy is predicted to improve and the citizens will be the
happier!