Kenya sevens were relegated to the Challenge trophy quarters after finishing third in Group C with five points, after winning 15-19 over France in their last group match at the ongoing Hamilton sevens, in FMG Stadium, Canada. Shujaa will now play Tonga on Sunday at 12.22am in the Challenge trophy quarters after finishing third with five points. Captain Jacob Ojee grabbed his second try of the tournament to give Kenya a 2nd minute 5-0 lead after Daniel Taabu failed to convert. The lead was short lived as Nisie Huyard made it 5-5 three minutes later after he capitalized on a defensive lapse. The match was equally balanced with both sides looking for a breakthrough. Home Boyz centre Bush Mwale broke lose on the right and raced towards the byline, before dodging the French defense cutting in to pass the ball to Vincent Onyalo to touch down. David Taabu converted to give Shujaa a 12-5 lead at the breather. Kenya continued from where they had left after the pep talk with Daniel Taabu grabbing his second try of the tournament and completed the extras, to give head coach Paul Murunga a comfortable 19-5 lead in the 10th minute. The inexperienced Shujaa side almost conceded immediately after they were dispossessed by Samuel Alerte, but regrouped to avert the danger. The see-saw affair continued with neither side dominating, in the last five minutes, with Kenya defending their lead aggressively. The blues threatened a comeback with two quick tries at the death via Remi Siega and Jimmy Yobo’s in the 13 and 14 minute respectively but missed the extras as Kenya held on nervously for their first victory in the group. Shujaa fell 29-10 to South Africa In the opener followed by a 19-10 loss to Scotland. Captain Ojee and Cyprian Kuto touched down against the Blitz books, while Vincent Onyala, and Daniel Tabu managed unconverted tries against Scotland. With senior members of the squad unavailable for selection owing to a contractual row with the Kenya Rugby Union(KRU),head coach Paul Murunga has been forced to rely on young guns just like he did in Dubai and Cape Town series last year. Collins Injera, Willy Ambaka, Daniel Sikuta and Oscar Ayodi are among senior players on a go-slow, as they are opposed to KRU’s decision to slash their salaries. Shujaa are currently flirting with relegation at position 14 with three points from the opening two legs. Click here for the latest political news