The government has put off construction of some major roads to the next financial year. They include those leading to Kiserian and Ruiru. The National Treasury’s Draft 2019 Budget Policy Statement says contract negotiations are underway for Lot 8 projects, including Bomas–Kiserian–Magadi, Bomas-Karen-Dagoretti–Ruiru and Uplands-Githunguri-Ngewa-Ruiru highways. They total about 71.5 kilometres. The Treasury says they will be among 39 Public-Private Partnership projects planned for 2019-2021. As of last December, 76 projects were on the National Priority List of PPP projects in the energy, health, education, water, environment and housing sectors, among others. The government had first announced the projects in the 2018-19 budget planning, including the 68km Modogashe-Samatur road in Wajir county and the 75km Rhamu-Mandera road. This prompted mapping of structures on the Bomas-Magadi road reserves. Read: Sh6 billion Nuno-Modogashe road will open up region to trade, say leaders According to the Treasury, the work will now include the 219.6km Nanyuki-Gwa Kungu and Laisamis-Ngurunit-Nursery (South Horr) roads. So far, negotiations for the 66.5km Illasit-Njukini–Taveta stretch have been completed. The construction will be undertaken using the annuity road-financing model, a performance-based maintenance contract that will hand selected contractors up to 10 years for maintenance. The model was revived in August 2017 to complement rural projects by the national government after they were delayed over inflated costs. The government will be implementing the Government Support Measures policy to reduce financial risks involved to cushion private sector investment. The public sector contributions to the PPPs would typically include the use of multiple instruments of support and credit enhancement measures. The projects planned to begin in July include the Dongo Kundu Special Economic Zone. Hiring of a transition adviser for Muguga Agri-city, Kiambu, and project structuring for procurement at Export Quarantine Station and Livestock Export Zone are underway. Click here for the latest political news