Nzoia Sugar Company acting managing director Michael Kulundu was on Wednesday night kidnapped, tortured and left for dead by unknown people in Kanduyi area along the Webuye- Malaba highway. The Bungoma county based sugar firm MD was later found unconscious in a trench one hundred meters from Salmond View restaurant by passersby’s on Thursday morning. Bungoma Police Commander Francis Sanga told reporters that it is alleged he was having some drinks with some unknown people after being dropped at the joint by his personal driver on Wednesday evening. Sanga said that police reports indicated that Kulundu was kidnapped by three unknown people who were armed with pistols at a the hotel. He was briefly admitted at Bungoma West private hospital in Kanduyi town where he was treated. Read: Nzoia Sugar acting manager Michael Kulundu attacked, sustains panga injuries Dennis Sunday, a clinical administrator said that they received a male patient brought in by his personal driver “Kulundu ( 54 ) suffered multiple injuries including a scar on the head, a dislocated shoulder, and cuts on the right hand, chest and lower limbs. We conducted the CT scan and the X-Ray, he is in stable condition now but are transferring him to Aga Khan Kisumu for specialized treatment,” said Sunday. Nzoia Sugar Company Workers Union Secretary General Macdonald Wamacho and Bukembe East ward MCA Joram Wanjala who paid the MD a visit at the hospital condemned the act and called on the security apparatus to move with speed and arrest the suspects. “We understand there are brokers, those looking to eat from the company and those fighting the MD over privatisation issues, the incident might have followed that trend, let the government issue MDs with armed bodyguards,” Wamacho said. Wanjala called on the security apparatus to move with speed, investigate and arrest the suspects. Wamacho said that the MD was hijacked by three people who were armed with three AK 47 guns. Sang said that they have started gathering information that will lead them into apprehending the suspects. Click here for the latest political news