Kenya would benefit in knowledge transfer and increased production if better policies are formulated to increase import of capital and intermediate goods. The African Economic Outlook 2019 by African Development Bank shows that this would however be backed by tax incentives reform to attract private investments and counter a possibly increasing current account deficit. “Higher private investment is associated with future improvement in the trade balance. Countries may thus sustain current large external deficits, as long as tax incentives, institutional frameworks, and basic infrastructure is in place to channel capital investment toward the sectors most likely to drive a trade balance reversal,” the report stated. The current account deficit has been on a downhill trend as reported in the third quarter 2018 by Kenya National Bureau of Statistics, narrowing to Sh116.0 billion from Sh150.9 billion in the corresponding period of 2017. This is attributed to a reduction in the import bill and improved performance of agricultural exports, increased diaspora remittances and a notable growth in tourism earnings. Dependency on capital goods, which aid production, was evident in 2017, with an increase in merchandise trade deficit to Sh1.13 trillion from Sh0.83 trillion in 2016. The wider gap was attributed to high import bill which grew by 20.5 per cent to Sh1.72 trillion from Sh1.43 trillion, over the same period. Main drivers of the import bill were industrial machinery, petroleum products, road motor vehicles, iron and steel, animal and vegetable fats and oils and sugar. This was against value of total exports to Sh0.59 trillion representing a 2.8 per cent increment from Sh0.57 trillion. The major foreign exchange earners were tea, horticulture, apparel and clothing accessories, coffee and titanium ores, accounting for 64.8 per cent of total domestic export earnings during the review period. Even though the volume of trade had expanded by 15.4 per cent to Sh2.31 trillion in the year compared to a 6.9 per cent decline in the previous year, the tradeoff showed deterioration in the ratio of export to import from 40.4 per cent to 34.4 per cent.