Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu on Wednesday denied ever having smoked bhang in his life. In fact, he said, he has never consumed any type of drugs. Waititu was responding to Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko who on January 23 claimed that the two used to smoke bhang together during their days as MPs. Waititu, alias Baba Yao, said his firm stand against illicit brews in his home county is a testimony of his resolve against drugs. He said he did not take Sonko’s claims seriously since he considers him a joker. “In fact, if such utterances came from someone else, I could have gone to court over defamation. But since they came from Sonko, I know him. I know why he said it [and] I also don’t take him seriously,” Waititu said. Read: Keep off Nairobi matters, Sonko tells Waititu on demolitions He spoke during an interview on Citizen TV's JKL show. While appearing on the same show last Wednesday, Sonko said he and Waititu used to indulge in bhang smoking and that Waititu used to hide his 'joint' in his socks. “And I’m a witness to this. We used to go to a certain toilet there. We used to smoke a lot of bhang with this guy,” he said. However, Waititu said he is a respectable man who could not have done such a thing. He said he was disappointed that such claims came from a leader entrusted with the leadership of a county with a population of over four million. “It’s high time that he [Sonko] become serious. He’s a leader now, he should not become a joker anymore,” Waititu said. Waititu claimed Sonko's utterances were merely a way of him trying to associate himself with his good track record in Kiambu. He said power appears to have gotten into Sonko’s head so much that he has no regard for anyone anymore. “Just the other day he was abusing somebody who can be like his father and putting it on the phone so that everybody can hear,” Waititu said. He reiterated his that no one should interfere with the matatu industry in regard to Sonko's plan to bar 14 seater matatu’s from the CBD. According to Waititu, 90 per cent of matatu operators in Kiambu rely on the 14-seater matatus. “Nairobi belongs to everybody. He should respect matatu people as business people,” he said. “Nobody has any right to wake up one day and just disrupt their businesses with the intention of making them bankrupt.” Click here for the latest political news