Gangs killing elderly people in Kilifi will be hunted down and prosecuted, Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i said yesterday. Matiang’i said killing of elderly people was rampant and warned those involved. Youths often attack those aged 60 and above, accusing them of practising witchcraft. But it has been established they want the elders dead to inherit their land and sell it off. “There is a unique problem here at the Coast - the killing of the elderly. It has become chronic and it happens only here,” Matiang’i said. He spoke after a close-door meeting with security bosses from the Coast at Uhuru na Kazi Building in Mombasa. The CS said the cultural reasons fronted for the killings were not true. He said land ownership was behind the killings. He said the killers had various reasons, one being for cultural belief and the issue of land ownership. “There are those who give cultural reasons. That is an absolute lie. Anyone who kills another person is a murderer and action should be taken against them,” he said. He said the Lands ministry was working on a resolution to the land adjudication problems at the Coast. “We know some of the reasons could be tied to the land tenure system at the Coast but there is no reason why one should take the law into their own hands and cause the death of others,” Matiang’i said. Kilifi county commissioner Magu Mutundika said they recorded many cases of killing of elders in 2017. He said some had sought refuge in rescue centres. “There was a slight reduction last year. We’re working around the clock to ensure elders are protected,” Mutundika told the Star on phone. Twelve elders are staying at the Kaya Godhoma Rescue Centre in Kilifi after running away from gangs who wanted to kill them. More than 100 elderly people were killed in 2014. It is estimated that 72 more elders were killed in 2017. Eric Mgoja, an official of Huria - a human rights lobby group based in Kilifi - said the statistics was alarming and called on the government to act. “We are going to get the statistics. We’re narrowing down to the sub-location to track where the killing is happening so we tackle it once and for all,” Matiang’i said. He asked police to work closely with community leaders, faith-based organisations and Nyumba Kumi to end the killings. The CS said the government will not negotiate with thugs for the security and safety of its people. Towards the end of last year, Mombasa and Kwale counties were hit by sporadic cases of attacks targeting unsuspecting residents, shops and M-Pesa outlets. By December 12, last year, at least 15 people had been killed in Mombasa’s Nyali, Likoni and Kisauni areas. The last in that list was former Kilifi deputy governor Kennedy Kamto, who was attacked by hooded gunmen on the eve of Jamuhuri Day. Matiang’i said they have laid down an elaborate plan to deal with insecurity in Mombasa, Kwale and Kilifi counties. “We will not negotiate with for the security and safety of our people. If you are a criminal, you know we will come for you and we will be hard on you,” Matiang’i said. He such gangs shuld not live among the community. “Our views are that if you are that kind of a person that do those kinds of criminal things around, you should be taken to jail,” the CS said. He said there was an operation ongoing in Kisauni, Nyali, Likoni and some parts of the south Coast which experienced security lapses in the last two months of 2018. Matiang’i said eight people have been arrested in connection with the  brutal attack of a chief in Shariani, Kilifi county last week. Police are in pursuit of four other individuals, who were part of a 12-member gang that attacked David Kahindi when he tried to stop a ‘Disco Matanga’ in the area. Disco Matanga, a cultural night celebration in Kilifi when one dies, have been banned. Any person caught operating past 11pm will be arrested. Matiang’i said. Kahindi is nursing severe head and leg injuries at Jocham Hospital in Mombasa. “We are looking for about four other people because our officers positively indentified 12 men who had attacked them,” Matiang’i said. The CS visited the chief on Monday and assured him that action will be taken against the youths who attacked him. “You will not attack a public officer in that manner and walk away with it. We are not a savage society. I have no problem deploying additional police officers in Kilifi to ensure order prevails,” Matiang’i said. He said politicians had assured him of their support.