A Kenyan died on Friday morning in the US in a grisly road accident after he was hit by a trailer on a busy highway in Texas. Allan Onucko died after he was struck by a truck in the middle of the road at around 5am. The victim was walking to the gas station after running out of fuel, his brother Fredrick Ochieng told the Star on phone on Sunday. He lived in Madison, Wisconsin, he said. According to Ochieng, the body will be flown back to Kenya for burial at their rural home in Homa Bay once police finalise investigations. "We are looking at bringing the body in three week's time. The postmortem was done on Saturday," he said. Texas Department of Public Safety said Onucko, 42, was ran over severally by other motorists, scattering his body parts on the road. Ochieng said Onucko was with Otieno, their youngest brother, at the time he lost his life. He said Onucko owns a trucking company and was driving to make a delivery when they ran out of fuel. "Our younger brother, Gilbert Otieno, had visited him and he decided to take him around when this happened," Ochieng said. He said Otieno decided to call 911 after Onucko failed to show up after an hour. Police went to the petrol station he was walking to but returned saying he had not been seen there. "They told him (Otieno) to wait for about an hour and if he doesn't show up they would file a missing person report," Ochieng said. "I was communicating with him (Otieno) via Whatsapp and he told me traffic was building up on the other lane. Police went to check and returned saying there was a body on the road." He said Otieno identified the documents retrieved from the body as those of their brother. "He was knocked about 300 meters away from where there truck had stalled," Ochieng said. He said Onucko had taken the opportunity to deliver goods to show Otieno around. Otieno had visited him after arriving in the US just ten days back. Onucko has left behind a two year old daughter and a wife who is due in three weeks with their second child. Click here for the latest political news