The government will today make changes within Njoro security team following the brutal killing of a 35-year-old man in a rustling incident at Likia early yesterday. Residents blocked the Njoro-Mau Narok road for more than two hours, protesting slow action by the police. They lit bonfires, disrupting transport. Nakuru county commissioner Joshua Nkanantha led security agents to the area and warned those inciting communities against each other that they will face the law. “We’ll make changes latest tomorrow [today] to strengthen our operations of the National Police Service in the area and boost security,” he said. A suspect was arrested and a mobile phone recovered at the scene. Read: Tension high in Njoro after man killed in fresh clashes Residents said the deceased, Kung’u Migwi, was tracking 10 sheep that had been stolen. An alarm had been raised at 2am. Some of the man’s body parts were missing. “The young man was stabbed in the stomach and neck by the rustlers,” Peter Maina said. Njoro divisional police boss Charity Dorcas said the man was stabbed by youths who stole goats belonging to his neighbour. She sent away a police station boss who arrived at the place drunk. Leaders clash Earlier, drama unfolded as MP Charity Kathambi and former MP Joseph Kiuna clashed. Each accused the other of causing tension in Likia. Nkanantha warned against ethnic incitement to violence. “We treat this as robbery and not a community issue. We’ll not tolerate incitement. We’ve summoned politicians to come and tell us what they know,” he said. “We have launched investigations.” Two of the 10 stolen sheep were recovered. Security officers mounted a search for the rest of the sheep and the missing body parts. “We urge residents to treat the incident as a criminal one. We are still pursuing the other criminals and they will be brought to book, we assure you,” Rift Valley regional police commander Hassan Barua said. He urged the communities to remain calm. “This is a matter we are following up as security agents. We call on the communities to give any information that might be of help,” Barua added. More: Calm returns in Njoro after protests over man's murder, one arrested Click here for
the latest political news