Jubilee vice chairman David Murathe has told Siaya leaders to stop asking Senator James Orengo to succeed Governor Cornel Rasanga in 2022. Leaders, among them Gem MP Elisha Odhiambo, Rarieda’s Otiende Amollo and Suba’s John Mbadi on Saturday told Orengo to prepare to become governor. But Murathe said Orengo is not fit for governorship because he is a leader who should be kept in national politics. He asked residents to look for a manager to spearhead development. “Orengo is a political animal and not a technocrat to serve Siaya residents in a position of a governor,” Murathe said. He was speaking at the funeral of Kefa Oduor in Ralingo village in Rarieda. Oduor was a brother of CS Raphael Tuju. Earlier at the same funeral, Odhiambo, Mbadi and Amollo heaped praise on Orengo, saying the Senate Minority leader was ripe for governorship. Murathe told them to be genuine with Siaya residents. “At what time will Orengo manage the county when he is a national figure that should be maintained in national politics?” Murathe asked. He urged Orengo to seek an alternative seat that will make him take over Nyanza leadership from Raila Odinga. “I think the people of Siaya should be grooming Orengo to succeed Raila when the former PM exists active politics and not subjecting him to county politics,” the former Gatanga MP said. Murathe said Jubilee and Nasa can form a coalition “now that it’s clear” the two political rivals can work together. Earlier, Gem ODM youth leader Charles Onguko asked Orengo to concentrate on national politics and leave the governorship to Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi. Onguko said residents were not comfortable with Orengo as the governor unlike with his current position as senator. Onguko said Orengo should position himself for higher positions like that of a cabinet Secretary or Chief Justice. Wandayi has received the backing of Alego Usonga boda boda riders who say he is the best successor to Rasanga. Both Wandayi and Orengo have not publicly declared interest in Siaya governorship. Tuju has previously been linked with Siaya governorship come 2022 but the Jubilee secretary general said he does not intend to run for the seat. Tuju said he was comfortable with his position as CS. Tuju said he will support the region in development, if permitted. “I want to assure all of you here that Tuju is not intending to be the governor of Siaya. I don’t have such dreams. I will support whoever the people of Siaya elect,” he said. The former Rarieda MP said he should not be mistaken to be  eyeing an elective position in the county if he decides to bring development projects. Murathe, however, encouraged Tuju to run for the Siaya governor’s seat, saying the position needed a  manager like the CS. “Don’t fear Orengo. Orengo is a politician; he is not a technocrat. This county needs a manager. Let Orengo vie for presidency. If Raila and President Uhuru Kenyatta are not contesting then Siaya can also produce a presidential candidate,” Murathe said.