Government officials, top police officers, family members and friends on Friday eulogised fallen GSU officer Japhet Ndunguja as brave and dedicated. They gathered at All Saints Cathedral, Nairobi, to bid farewell to the officer, who was killed on January 15 during the DusitD2 terror attack. At least 21 people were killed and more than 700 people rescued after five terrorists attacked the complex at 14 Riverside Drive on January 15. Mourners described Ndunguja, 28, as a hero. The officer was based in Ruaraka and was part of the joint security team that responded to the attack. Ndunguja’s parents said it is painful to lose a hard-working son who had a promising future. “Our hearts are in pain. You have left us early. We will not ask God why he took you from us but thank Him for giving us a good son,” a family member said. The parents urged Ndunguja’s colleagues to keep a close relationship with God while serving the nation. irreplaceable Ndunguja’s elder sister, Hellen Nuru, eulogised her brother as a special friend who cannot be replaced. “You are a brother to remember. A friend I miss so much. You will remain in my heart,” she said. Government spokesperson Eric Kiraithe eulogised Ndunguja as a young heroic officer. He said Ndunguja’s death robbed the country of a committed officer, who could have risen through the ranks to the level of a commandant. “Japhet did not die in vain. He died so that terrorist can be defeated and Kenyans can be rescued from instant death,” Kiraithe said. challenging call He urged the officers to keep up with good work. “This is your challenging calling. What the multi-agency team did at 14 Riverside could be a first in the world where terrorists intended to kill as many people as possible, but within one hour they were pushed to a corner,” he said. Ndunguja is survived by widow Lydia Lengaki. He will be buried on Saturday in Kimala village, Taita Taveta. Already, the government is building a house for his family in Kimala–Ndiweni village on the outskirts of Taveta town.