 I
warned before that Somalia President Mohamed Abdullahi Farmaajo is slowly
behaving like a dictator, and is getting carried away by power. Well, he has
just proved me right by unprecedentedly chasing away the United Nations
Secretary General’s Special Envoy to Somalia, Nicholas Haysom from the country. On
January 1, the Somalia government declared Haysom a persona non grata in
Somalia, effectively banishing the top UN diplomat over flimsy claims of what
they termed as "interfering with Somalia’s internal affairs". In
reality, the Somalia government was simply unhappy with the diplomat’s
questioning of human rights abuses by African Union peacekeepers from Ethiopia
and Somalia in the arrest of a leading candidate and killing of civilians in
Baidoa following a sham election in South West State of Somalia in mid-December. The
government action was prompted by a letter the UN Chief wrote on December 30,
to Somalia's Internal Security Minister Mohamed Abukar Islow confirming the
suspension of the Joint Police Programme support. This programme is jointly
funded by the UN, the European Union, the United Kingdom and Germany, which,
among other logistical support, pays stipends to Somalia Police Force,
including the South West State police as well to 453 military soldiers based in
Baidoa who belong to the 60th division of the Somalia National Army.  AID
SUSPENSION The
letter confirmed suspension of financial aid support amounting to millions of
dollars and demanded an explanation from Ethiopian embassy and the head of
African Union peacekeepers over the conduct of Amisom’s Ethiopian contingent’s
illegal arrest of Mukhtar Robow on December 13 in Baidoa. There
was another separate letter to the Somalia government over the subsequent
conduct of the police forces in South West State, in which 15 protesters were
killed and over 300 others arrested, including children in Baidoa on December
13-15. Robow
is a former al Shabaab founder, deputy commander and one-time spokesman who
left the group in 2013. He officially surrendered last year after being
pardoned by Somalia and the US, which had a bounty over his head. His problems,
however, started after announcing plans to vie for the South West State presidential
election. He
was arrested by AU peacekeepers from Ethiopia in Baidoa a few days before the
vote and handed over to the Somalia government, who are still holding him
illegally in Mogadishu without any charges brought against him as required by
the law. You don’t correct a mistake with another mistake. The government
should be the first to respect the rule of law otherwise their actions will be
seen as a rule of the jungle.  DARLING
TO DICTATOR The
government was caught pants down by their illegal actions in Baidoa but instead
of coming out clean, they have jumped from the frying pan to the fire by
banishing the top UN envoy from Somalia. Indeed if the arrest of Robow and the
killing of protesters was legal, why would they retort to banishing the human
rights defender in Haysom? They would have swiftly responded to the letter
instead. In
the wider public eye, President Farmaajo's latest antics is likely to catapult
him from a one-time public darling, just two years after his election, to a
dictator who has no regards for the rule of law and the wellbeing of his
people. It
is not only naive but foolish of a country that is not self-sufficient and one
that depends on foreign aid to expel the representative of the head of an
agency such as the UN, which bankrolls the government and is the chief
humanitarian supporter of the hungrey population. This action must never be
accepted for the sake of the poor people of Somalia. This
means the UN as well as the EU, theUK, Germany and other important donors are
now likely to suspend their support, which would only further aggravate the
already dire humanitarian situation and the ongoing Somalia reconstruction
efforts of which they are the primary contributors. This is indeed the worst
New Year present Somalis could ever endure.  NEXT
HOT SPOT Let
us also note forget that the EU is the chief financier of Amisom Peacekeeping
mission in Somalia and they could easily decide to rethink, following Ethiopian
forces involvement in the Robow arrest that brings into disrepute the mission’s
neutrality. God forbid if this happens, al Shabaab militants will rejoice and
will not take long to recapture Somalia from the fractious, ill-trained and
divided Somalia forces. This would be a huge setback that will drain all the
efforts and millions of dollars spent to stabilize Somalia. Fearing
similar Federal government interference of its election like what blatantly
happened in South West State, Puntland has already come out gun blazing against
Farmaajo's government by declaring that no central government official will be
allowed to visit their area until end of its planned Presidential election
scheduled for January 8. The
next possible hot spot likely to lead to an all-out war is the Jubaland State
of Somalia Presidential election slated for August. Credible sources say the
government is planning to again use Ethiopian forces who are part of AMISOM
peacekeepers in Kismayo to prevent current Jubaland President Ahmed Mohamed
Islam aka Ahmed Madobe from retaining his seat. The
international community must remain vigilant and stop any attempts to wrest
power and the will of people of Jubaland with the help of Ethiopian
peacekeepers, whose salaries are paid by the same powers. We don’t want another
massacre in Kismayo like what happened in Baidoa. Madobe
and current Puntland President are the two most vocal opponents of Farmaajo and
are leading other states in cutting ties with the federal government. The other
federal states are Galmudug, HirShabele and South West State, which Farmaajo has
already installed his yes msn.  WRONG
MOVE The
reason why the Somalia federal government is so determined to install their
puppets in all the five federal states is because Farmaajo is sensing defeat in
the upcoming Somalia election in 2020. The federal states will play a crucial
role as Somalia MPS who elect the President are chosen from these regions. With
the current strong opposition in the federal states, Farmaajo’s re-election
looks highly unlikely in spite of his dictatorial tendencies. It
is also worth noting that no President in Somalia’s history has ever retained a
seat. The first President of Somalia Adan Abdulle Osman lost to Abdirashid Ali
Sharmarke in 1967, graciously accepting defeat and made history as the first
African President to accept defeat and peacefully hand over power. Farmaajo
himself defeated President Hassan Sheikh Mohamed in February 2017, who also
peacefully handed over power to him. We expect President Farmaajo to do so in
2020 should he lose.. He
must be aware of this golden rule in Somalia politics and should not allow
young, inexperienced political novices to misadvise him. Days of dictatorship
are long gone and he must accept opposition and respect it. His decision to
chase away Haysom was wrong. The
Somalia President needs to come out clean and explain the human rights abuses
committed by his forces and hold all those responsible accountable. He would
have done himself good if he would start by first releasing Robow from illegal
detention and healing the wounds of the sham election in South West State,
which in essence is what the top UN diplomat was simply questioning. 