At least 1,250 Lamu residents whose land was acquired for three major projects want the government to compensate them this year. The projects are the Sh200 billion coal-fired power plant in Hindi, the Sh21 billion wind power project in Mpeketoni and the establishment of the county headquarters in Mokowe. The total amount to be paid out is unclear. The compensation has stalled following stalemates between investors and wananchi over the yearsn. At least 1,000 people are to be paid for land where the coal plant in Hindi and the wind power project in Mpeketoni will be put up. Residents whose land was acquired for the coal plant have been waiting since 2016. Some 975 acres were acquired from 600 individuals in Hindi. Sh800,000 per acre Spokesperson Abdulrahman Aboud said it is time the government and investors came clear on whether the coal project is viable so they can decide what to do with their land. The land has been lying idle for four years due to the controversy and opposition surrounding the project. In 2016, the National Land Commission cleared all the 600 individuals for compensation. The NLC said they would be paid Sh800,000 per acre. However since then, it has been a wait-and-see situation for those concerned. “It’s been four years since 2016 when we were cleared for compensation. The process, however, seems to be taking forever,” Aboud said. The plant is to be built by Amu Power Company, a consortium of Gulf Energy and Centum Investments, and is expected to generate 1,050MW of power. At least 600 people in Mpeketoni’s Baharini have not been cleared for compensation after their 3,206 acres were acquired in 2011 for the wind project. The project is sponsored by the Baharini Wind Power Project, a consortium of Elicio, a Belgium Company working with a Kenyan firm – Kenwind Holdings Ltd. The project is expected to generate 90MW once completed. A disagreement over the nature of production between the investor, the Ministry of Energy and the Energy Regulatory Commission has stalled the compensation process. Resident Joseph Mwangi said, “There was a meeting recently and they talked about conducting a Resettlement Action Plan for all those affected in two weeks. Nothing has happened.” He said it has been nine years of promises and no execution. “We hope 2019 will be better,” Mwangi said. County headquarters Fifty-four individuals whose land was acquired for the establishment of the Lamu county headquarters want to be paid by the end of the month. They said  NLC chairman Muhammad Swazuri made a pledge in December. Swazuri has however ruled out monetary compensation. They will be resettled on alternative land instead. The residents will only be paid for development on the land at the time of acquisition, including trees, crops and buildings. Others eyeing compensation packages are those living close to the Lamu-Garsen road, which is being expanded. They are demanding compensation so they can move away to pave way for construction.