Was the council of governors’ elections a political battle pitting Deputy President William Ruto against political forces opposed to his 2022 presidential ambitions? Well, the final results had the hallmarks of a bruising political battle that saw the DP’s allies shown the door. It has emerged that proponents of the handshake strategised to lock out candidates close to Ruto in a bid to clip his 2022 wings. A small bird, aware of the behind-the-scenes lobbying, told Corridors of power that a vocal Mt Kenya governor who passed the motion to block former officials from contesting again, said he had been called from above to fight them. He said, “I did it in the spirit of the handshake. And I had to deliver the message.” Indeed politics is a dirty game. ***** Voters in one of the counties in the lake region are crying foul over a county executive they say is openly doing business with the county government against procurement laws. Citing conflict of interest, the voters say they are perplexed that EACC sleuths in the region are dillydallying in nabbing the official. The executive has several phony companies that she runs in partnership with her husband. The firm has won tenders some of which are awarded by the very docket the official handles. Staff in her department have had to bear with the long hours they have to put up with the official’s arrogant husband. The man is always present in the corridors of the department to a point visitors confuse him for an employee of the county. ***** Is a vocal cabinet secretary feeling threatened by Deputy President William Ruto? The CS who was once a regular figure around the DP surprised many during the just concluded anti-corruption conference in Nairobi. The minister actually could not step into a room where the DP was seeing guests on the sidelines of the anti-graft talk held at the Bomas of Kenya. The CS wanted to meet Makueni governor Kivutha Kibwana, but could not step into the room just because the DP was inside holding talks with the county boss. He was then overheard telling his team that he needed to talk to Kivutha, but could not walk in because he was uncomfortable meeting the DP. The CS had to wait until Kivutha emerged before pulling him aside to have a chat. They could be seen occasionally excited while they conversed in low tones. It is not clear why the CS fears the DP. ***** A senator from one of the Nyanza counties who had hired a number of bloggers to taint the management of a blue-chip company with an eye to second his people to strategic positions in the firm is now on the receiving end. The bloggers are said to have turned against the senator after the politician was in a revenge mission against the company’s management for standing up against his constant quest to get money from the firm which is the only source of livelihood for residents. Moles who talked to Corridors of Power said the lawmaker had twice tried to get money from the company but his advances have all been in vain. The legislator is said to have gone broke after a gruesome campaign and is literally moving from one organisation to another looking for where to lay his hands to replenish his depleted pockets. Click here for the latest political news