2019 is here and our local celebrities are ready for what it has to offer. We sat down with industry bigwigs from the entertainment field and asked them, "What do you think 2019 will be like and what are your predictions?" This is what they said. Intellectual Property (IP) lawyer Liz Lenjo says, "I hope the economy improves. That is more of a hope than a prediction. But something has got to give!" Carol Radull, an Arsenal die-hard supporter revealed, "Arsenal will not win the league but will likely win the Europa League. I also predict that Liverpool will win the premier league and our very own Harambee Stars will win one game at AFCON 2019 but we must look at it as a building process. And here's a sure bet: Kenyans will win many major marathons." Comedian Dr. Ofweneke who has had massive success in his career in 2018 joked, "Arsenal will go with all the cups including the ones in the kitchen." TV and stage actor Alliwah, who is known for his role in Vioja Mahakamani, predicted that "tables are going to turn around and gospel music will completely change. SK Blue said that after every four years, the gospel wave changes and that is what I am predicting it will happen this year. King Kaka will release a gospel song while Guardian Angel will get himself a wife. Also, social media influence will be a bigger threat to the government. You wait and see." Nameless believes, "As a music industry, it will be a good year for Kenya. Fans will give us good support. Personally, I also feel it is going to be a special year in terms of my musical journey and a big milestone for my career in general. As a nation, I hope people will start realising that tribalism is taking us back economically and start looking at it on a policy level." Dennis Nzioka predicts that "on Feb 22, 2019, the High Court will make a ruling on consensual same-sex acts between adults. This case is a major deal breaker for us. We are really looking forward to a positive ruling that will put Kenya, only second to South Africa, on the continent, in terms of respect for the rights of LGBT persons. This case has a major impact - we will join a select few countries that have done this. And no, this is NOT about same-sex marriages, no. Same-sex marriage is a minority, not a priority for gay Kenyans. However, whatever the ruling on Feb 22 is, we shall still continue to fight for, and advocate for inclusive, respect for diversity, and safe spaces for all persons. Our work never ends. The legal battle is but one of the many spaces we work within, and which we hope will argue in our favour. If they rule in our favour - as expected - then the real, hard, hands-dirty, work will begin. And I am ready for it!" Comedian Jalang'o who is an event MC and radio presenter says that the biggest prediction for him "is that gospel Willy Paul will announce that he is finally a secular artiste because he has already shown signs with his latest music releases. Also, Masauti will become the biggest artiste in Kenya and this will happen by February. I won't forget our brothers, China will take our Mombasa port because of our mounting debt." Citizen TV's Willis Raburu said, "There will be a significant shift in the media industry and the entertainment industry, only those who are willing to change will stand the test of time." Papa Dennis a gospel singer says, "I see many good and great things happening next year, the music industry is growing. There will be many shows for artistes to promote our own Kenyan music." Fellow gospel star Daddy Owen added, "I believe Kenyans will see my real plans moving forward plus I have a big announcement on my leadership. This is my next step." Chipukeezy who was named as one of the board members of NACADA predicts that 2019 "Kenya will be a more sober nation. I'm looking forward to opening more rehabilitation centres and have more engagement with young people across the country on combating drug abuse." On a lighter note, he added, "Socialite Huddah Monroe will release a song and call it 'Nitaambia nini watu', Miguna Miguna is expected to release a song called "I am back!". I will bring Nick Minaj on a tour of Kenya to talk to the youths about drugs and Eric Omondi will be a news anchor."