Kenyan based Water and Energy Solutions firm Davis & Shirtliff has been appointed by Germany’s solar company SMA Solar to manufacture solar inverters for photovoltaic systems. A photovoltaic system, also known as a Solar PV system, is an energy system that is designed to transform the energy from the sun into electricity by means of photovoltaics, also known as solar panels. This is expected to make it easy for local manufacturers to generate their own solar power cutting on production cost and pollution. SMA is one of leading global manufacturer of solar inverts for photovoltaic systems with grid connection, off-grid power supply and backup operations and is present in 20 countries. The solar system works on the grid-connected photovoltaic power system, electricity generating solar PV system that is connected to the mains supply. It consists of solar panels, one or several SMA inverters, a power conditioning unit and grid connection equipment. The system ranges from small residential and commercial rooftop systems to large utility-scale solar power stations. "Unlike stand-alone power systems, a grid-connected system rarely includes an integrated battery solution, as they are still very expensive,’’ Davis & Shirtliff technical director Philip Holi said. He said with necessary approval by Energy Regulatory Commission, the grid-connected PV system supplies the excess power, beyond consumption by the connected load, to the utility grid. "Manufacturers in the country use a significant amount of electricity during production. This energy constitutes a major overhead cost for the organisation, in addition to contributing to a significant amount of pollution to power the plant. According to Davis $ Shirtliff, the adoption of solar power technology by manufacturing companies cut the cost of power and in turn feed into fulfilling the government’s objective of having the sector contribute 15 per cent of the GDP from the current 9.2 per cent as part of the Big Four Agenda," Holi said. They are urging the government to remove import duty and VAT on the solar accessories to reduce on the cost of installing the solar system. 