A case about extrajudicial killing against the government will get direction from court today. The High Court will give direction on the class action suit filed by a rights agency and a group of families of victims of alleged police extrajudicial killing. The families include widows and mothers of 22 young men fatally shot by police in Nairobi. The accusing the government of not doing enough to prevent unlawful killing during law enforcement operations. The suit is brought against the Attorney General and Inspector General of Police named as first and second respondents. The Kenya National Commission on Human Rights, Independent Policing Oversight Authority and Director of Public Prosecution are mentioned as interested parties. Justice Chacha Mwita will also hear the responses of the parties sued in the petition and also determine applications of others who may want to be enjoined in the suit brought by International Justice Mission and 22 families at Milimani law courts. The petitioners want the High Court to compel the Attorney General to advise President Uhuru Kenyatta to establish a judicial commission of inquiry on extrajudicial killings. The applicants are “seeking an order directing the IG to initiate prompt, thorough and impartial investigations into the circumstances under which they were killed.” The families have also formed an outfit named as Mothers and Widows of victims of EJKs and it has been incorporated in the suit as 16th petitioner. The outfit is described in the court papers as an unincorporated self-help group that comprises of the families of deceased persons who have allegedly been gunned down by the police. The lot contend that having the AG advise the President to constitute a judicial inquiry agency on the execution will help identify the institutional gaps and loopholes that law enforcement officers exploit to commit the offences. The inquiry will also help investigate and address specific and systemic factors contributing to the high rate of extrajudicial killings in the country, the court papers says. The affidavits by the families give accounts of horror-like experiences they have had to endure at the hands of the police and law enforcement officials as they pursue the details of circumstances that led to the killing of their loved ones. One of such cases is that of Francisca Monthee, a mother of 5 children, including a 17 years old Paul Munyoki killed by the police in December 2016. In the affidavit, Monthee says she learnt about the death of her son on January 1, 2017, morning and passed out. Her daughter together with other neighbours, proceeded to City Mortuary to identify the body of Munyoki. She did not report the matter to the police, fearing a reprisal by the police. “My family and I did not make a report to the police on why Paul was shot and killed as we feared retaliation,” the papers indicate. The son worked as a garbage collector in Mlango Kubwa area of Nairobi. Brian Liuva Ondeko, 23, who was a second hand shoe dealer in Kawangware was killed in August 2014 by the police. On the fateful day, Brian had gone to Gikomba market to buy second hand shoes stock for his business. He returned to his premises and stepped out to deliver some of the shoes to his friend named Simon. His parents would later receive information about his death on the evening of that day. Postmortem examination revealed that he had succumbed to numerous gun shot wounds on the chest and head. Brain’s family recorded statements to the relevant authorities. “The first petitioner and her family are yet to be informed of the findings or outcomes of the investigations that have been carried out in regard to her son’s death,” the affidavit reads. Another case is that of 17-year-old Joseph Kahara who was shot dead by police officers at Mlango Kubwa area in Pangani. He had multiple gunshot injuries to the chest. His mother Milka Wanjiku says her son used to help her run her vegetable business in Mathare. “It was his daily routine to go early in the morning to Wakulima Market. But on May 27, he left for the market never to be seen again,” she says. 