A young girl’s academic dream is in tatters after Olympic High School sent her away for having dreadlocks. The hairstyle is part of her religious belief — Rastafarianism. Her father John Mwendwa, alias Prophet, wants her right to freedom of religion protected. In a suit, he has listed the school’s board of management, the Education ministry and the Attorney General as respondents. The father is seeking compensation for rights violation. Also sought is an order allowing her unconditional return to the school and having teachers stopped from interfering with her education. The girl had the dreadlocks in primary school. On January 10, she reported to the school and was admitted, having paid Sh12,000 fees. Her excitement of a new academic journey was, however, cut short when, during a lesson, she was summoned by the deputy head teacher. He condemned and dismissed her for having and concealing the dreadlocks. She was told to report back after shaving. Her parents went to the school the following day hoping to explain it all. The teachers were not convinced. Mwendwa said the head-teacher arrogantly banged the table and dismissed him without giving him a hearing. He made it clear that the school only recognises Christians, Muslims and Akorinos — no Rastafarian would be tolerated, the father said. Mwendwa said his daughter is feeling sorry for herself as her peers continue to learn. He says it is wrong for the school to make his daughter choose between her right to education and her right to adhere to her religious practices. Read: Dreadlocks, hijabs and caning: When parents sue schools The law provides equal protection for all. Article 44 of the Constitution, for instance, gives every person the right to use the language and participate in the cultural life of their choice. Section 43( 1 ) says every person has a right to education. In the past, the courts have dealt with similar cases where students asked to be allowed to wear headscarves, citing their rights to freedom of religion. One such case was decided in 2016 by appeal judges. Justices Phillip Waki, Roselyne Nambuye and Patrick Kiage allowed Muslim female students to wear hijabs as part of their school uniform. They directed the Education CS to ensure new rules on school uniform are made so they do not discriminate against students based on their religions. Click here for
the latest political news