In her second memoir, Cocktail Hour Under the Tree of Forgetfulness, white Zimbabwean Alexandra Fuller takes us back to her eclectic family in southern Africa. Fuller now lives in the US and this biography is based on interviews of her parents during periodic visits to them. They often chat while enjoying evening cocktails, a customary routine in the Fuller household and a chance for her to draw out stories of their childhood and early lives. Beyond the nuclear family, we meet several of the Fuller ancestors, quirky personalities who hailed from Scotland and England in the late 1900s. But without a doubt the most colourful character in the book is Fuller’s mother, a woman who calls herself Nicola Fuller of Central Africa. She is a sharp-witted and excitable person, a talented horsewoman who makes good curries, fig wine and loves to be the centre of attention. Yet Nicola’s life is also one of incredible tragedy, including the tragic loss of three of her five children at a young age. It fuels heavy drinking, periods of severe melancholy and hospitalisation for mental illness from which it was feared she might not recover. During these times, young Fuller and her sister were essentially motherless. But Nicola’s indomitable spirit refuses to succumb to despondency, and she prevails because “she forgave the world and her mind returned”. Indeed, the book almost reads like an ode to her mother. Meantime, Fuller’s father is the quiet presence in the background, an untiring farmer scarred by war who teaches his daughters to use guns and remains totally loyal to his ‘wobbly’ wife. Fuller is honest about the prejudiced lives of the minority white settlers, who led romanticised lives while the majority African population languished. At Kenya’s independence, the family relocated to Zimbabwe. When that country was liberated, they moved again in search of ‘white-ruled Africa’, Nicola Fuller carting along her precious cooking pots and Irish linens. At the same time you admire the settler resilience, enduring crop failure, illness, snake bite, independence wars and more. The tumult and conflicts in different countries creates an unstable context for the stories of this unconventional family. Throughout, Fuller gives us vivid descriptions of the places and landscapes she grew up in. In places the novel becomes tedious, with long descriptions of numerous relatives and Fuller ancestors, taking away from more intriguing events in Africa. Towards the end, there is a sense of relief when Fuller’s parents finally settle down on their own farm in Zambia, which is where they still live. It is here that a farm worker identifies in the garden the Tree of Forgetfulness, where you sit “if there is a sickness or you are troubled by spirits”. Cocktail Hour Under the Tree of Forgetfulness is a wacky family story of heartbreak, hardship and choosing happiness. Readers of the first book, the critically acclaimed Don’t Let’s Go to the Dogs Tonight, might find this memoir less exhilarating, but it still has many interesting vignettes.  Star Rating: 4/5