I’ve written about it here before, but I will say it again: I love a good conspiracy theory, and when I’m in the mood, I tend to see them around every corner and under every bed, as it were. There have been a number of viral trends that I have decided were conspiracies. These were led either by the forces behind social media, such as Facebook and Twitter, or by shadowy organisations, such as Cambridge Analytica — the British political consulting firm that combined data mining, data brokerage and data analysis with strategic communication during electoral processes. Though that company may have closed its doors last year after the veil was lifted on its dodgy operations in the US election, the Brexit vote and even the Kenyan elections, related firms still exist. These are doing much the same kind of work of luring ordinarily intelligent types, alongside the usual suspects (naive, ignorant and trusting types), to participate in what seems to be innocent quizzes and surveys to pass the time online. Especially after Cambridge Analytica and their data mining tricks, I don’t trust any online surveys. This is because I believe they are nothing more than sneaky ways for various dark forces, including marketers and various state and security organisations, to get to know more about you than even your closest friend or relative does. For instance, there are seemingly innocuous questions, such as one a little while ago that asked people what their favourite colour was. It sounds harmless, but to answer the question, respondents had to fill in a questionnaire with details such as their name, hometown or city, education and even details about their employment. So many people routinely give this information away online and then are surprised to find adverts and offers that target them and their social networks on social media so accurately. Recently on Facebook, for instance, there was yet another viral trend that got people to post old and new profile pics. Most people took it seriously and posted eight- or 10-year-old pics next to current images. However, some joker made a post, that itself went viral, suggesting that it was all a conspiracy by Facebook. According to the post, the staffers at Facebook send a message to their boss Mark Zuckerberg, saying their facial recognition algorithms are becoming less accurate due to ageing of users. Zuckerberg responds, telling them to tell their friends at Buzzfeed to “create a viral trend that gets people to post their very first and current profile pics side by side”, and once that is done, they should adjust the algorithms accordingly. You may laugh and say no such conversation ever took place and if it did, there’d be no digital trail, so to speak. But if you are a conspiracy theorist, there is no smoke without fire, and this might just be a case of hiding the truth in plain sight. After all, we all know that if you want to hide something from people, all you need to do is put it where everyone can see it.