IS Nasa supremo Raila Odinga grooming Jubilee Party secretary general and former critic Raphael Tuju (pictured) to take over from Cornel Rasanga as the next governor of Siaya? Those in the know have whispered to Corridors that the former Rarieda MP is eyeing the seat and his new-found rapport with Raila might make him the man to beat in 2022. His ambitions will no doubt put him at loggerheads with Siaya senator James Orengo who has himself been dreaming about the job. This could explain why Tuju accompanies Raila to public functions in Nyanza. He hopes the people of Siaya will forgive him for his past criticism against the ODM boss. That journalists require accreditation by the Media Council of Kenya to conduct their activities is nothing new. What baffles Kisumu journalists, however, is why the council has failed to rein in two quacks they say are on an extortion mission in the town. The two have a tendency of posing as reporters of established media houses and promising favourable coverage to unsuspecting news sources. Ford Kenya officials who had a meeting in the town recently are their latest victims. They collected cash from the party officials who latter had to contact media house they had been promised would publish their stories after realising a story they had paid for handsomely wasn’t published. The Kisumu scribes say it is only a matter of time before they drag and shame the quacks in public. The scribes have been left wondering what the council is waiting for, yet the quacks have been identified. A Nairobi county official who is on suspension has shocked both his friends and foe by bragging that he will walk back to the office before the end of March. The said official has been telling those who care to listen that he will not be convicted despite the corruption charges he faces in court. The man was overheard telling a friend that “he has sorted out” detectives who were on his case, and a magistrate. However, unknown to him, the DCI is privy to his dealings and has begun dismantling his plans to dodge justice. Areb some Coast politicians regretting their public declarations of support for Deputy President William Ruto? Some of those who were vocal and defiantly accompanied the DP in every function while defending their decision have suddenly gone mute and off air. Corridors has learnt that their association with the DP has turned their constituencies hostile and they can no longer roam as they wish. Weighing the benefits against the losses, some have backed off in the hope they will get a second term. Those ambitions are in doubt. Click here for the latest political news