Just two hours southwest of Nairobi, a semi-arid terrain holds a rich cache of prehistoric artefacts. An official site of the National Museums of Kenya, Olorgesailie sits in a dried lake basin in the Rift Valley. The tour starts with a museum guide explaining the history of the area and the discoveries. Palaeontologists Mary and Louis Leakey brought worldwide fame to this region, starting in 1942 with the discovery of fossils of early human of the Acheulean era from 200,000 to 1.5 million years ago. Hundreds of stone-age tools were also discovered, as well as the bones of extinct species of mammals, such as zebras, pigs, baboons, hippos, antelopes and elephants. Scientists have crafted a calendar of the area dating almost 1 million years. It is believed there was previously a lake and river flowing in this area, creating an environment that attracts many kinds of animals. Volcanic action over the centuries helped to preserve the hand-axes and bones that were buried in sediments and ash. The site of the mammal fossils is located about a 15-minute walk from the main centre. Along the way, we passed small hills with layers of sediment and could see Mt Olorgesailie in the distance. Under a shelter, we found the large bones of an extinct elephant species called Elephas recki. It lived 992,000 years ago and was related to the modern Asian elephant. In another shelter were several bones belonging to prehistoric hippos. Further on were more excavated sites containing dozens of hand axes, stones shaped into oblong and rounded tools. They were used by our human ancestors to skin animals, cut flesh and break bones. If you have a packed lunch, there is an outdoor shaded seating area with long tables and benches. Keen birders will enjoy spotting different types of birds, such as hornbills, weaver birds, Namaqua doves, emerald spotted wood doves and the red-and-yellow barbet. For longer visits, accommodation is available in self-catering bandas or the option of a camping site. For the adventurous, Mt Olorgesailie is a good place for a full-day hike.  LOCATION: Magadi Road, Kajiado county CONTACTS: National Museums of Kenya +254-20-8164134, olorgesailie@museums.or.ke  Star Rating: 4/5