Teachers in Mandera did not report to work yesterday despite a court order blocking a strike called by the Kenya National Union of Teachers. A spot check by the Star showed that only the headteachers and a few learners were in public schools. County Knut executive secretary Mohammed Sheikh yesterday said the strike was “live in the county”. He has blamed the Education ministry for not addressing teachers’ welfare. The teachers stayed away from work despite Education Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed saying schools reopen yesterday. The Teachers Service Commission also urged parents to take their children to school promising that tutors would be available to receive the learners. TSC chairperson Lydia Dzomo said the board has asked CEO Nancy Macharia to assign teachers on their database in case of non-attendance by those already employed. On Wednesday, Justice Bryam Ongaya issued orders blocking the strike and directed Knut and TSC to resume conciliation talks. Sheikh, who spoke to reporters in Mandera town, said teachers will press the government on “illegal transfers.” He said the transfers will not only inconvenience teachers but also lead to family separations due to far distances from home. Sheikh said teachers promotion had stalled and that they were not being appraised by TSC as required. “TSC has failed to meet the welfare of teachers and are currently undertaking unnecessary delocalisation of heads,” Sheikh said. He asked parents to keep their children at home until the ‘strike’ is called off. The unionist said Mandera was suffering from an acute shortage of teachers since 2014 after non-locals fled the region citing insecurity. The teachers work boycott comes amid a controversy between the ministry and Attorney General Paul Kihara over entry grades to teacher training colleges. Amina had proposed the grade be reduced from C (plain) to D+ (plus) but the AG overturned the directive. The ministry’s move was aimed at having arid regions get more locals trained to solve the teacher shortage. “The strike in Mandera is a special one because the county has not gotten replacement for teachers transferred in 2017,” Sheikh said. Knut secretary general Wilson Sossion said the strike was effective in both primary and secondary schools.