Maize farmers are demanding to meet President Uhuru Kenyatta saying they will not sell their harvest to NCPB unless the government lifts prices. They want the state to buy their maize at Sh3,200 a bag from the Sh2,300 being offered. "We have already forwarded our request to meet the President, we are waiting," the director of Kenya Farmers Association Kipkorir Menjo said. However, if their plea is not granted, they will be in an even worse position. Schools are opening and they don't have fees. Brokers are smelling dinner. They have already moved into many parts of the North Rift to snap up maize they are offering between Sh800 and Sh1,200 per bag in Trans Nzoia, Uasin Gishu and parts of Bungoma and Kakamega. The NCPB is yet to reopen depots to buy maize from farmers who now face a cash crisis with schools reopening this week. The farmers in the North Rift region are holding an estimated 13 million bags of maize harvested last year. The government anticipates that farmers countrywide harvested more than 40 million bags last year. Imports have already flooded markets in most areas where maize prices have consequently dropped to as low as Sh800 per 90kg bag. The NCPB, on the other hand, has more than 3 million bags of maize including imports. The state had promised to buy more than 2 million bags of maize from farmers but no cash has been released to the NCPB. "As farmers, we are now caught up in a hard situation and we will have to incur heavy loses selling our maize to middlemen," said Zachariah Kiptoo, a farmer. Millers are offering about Sh1,600 per the 90kg bag. Farmers also want the millers to offer better prices “We have adequate maize and the millers should buy from us at better prices because what they are offering is far below what NCPB has been paying us,” said another farmer Joseph Amdanyi The millers in the region led by Patrick Kiburen said the government should release maize stocks at the NCPB to them so that Unga prices remain stable. Click here for the latest political news