Three weeks ago, I discovered that Santa was real. If he needs me for a reference, I’m ready to tell the world! This is the letter I sent him: Dear Santa, Hi. I hope all is well. It’s been a long year. Have I been a good girl? Well, no. As you probably already know (because these damn snitches are everywhere!) I have done plenty of bad things. But I did them to bad people so that’s ok, right? Karma was probably using me as her guiding hand. As the end of the year closes, Karma thought it hilarious to give me my own payback. She gave me a rose and riddled it with thorns. As a result I have let go of the best-looking man I have ever dated (with hands down the best sex I’ve ever had) but I realize that to be happy, I need more than that. I would like a good man, Santa. That’s my wish for Christmas. A generous man. A guy like you, Santa. You’re always happy and that’s important to me because I love positive people. You’re warm and kind. You probably give the best hugs too! You probably know how to make love to a woman too. I’m sure that beard, buried in the right place can cause a whole load of favourable sensations. Yes Santa, one night for the history books, with amazing cunnilingus straight from the North Pole. I’m sure you don’t normally do this but I’m hoping you’ll make an exception. I wouldn’t mind being your ho, ho, ho. That joke will never grow old, Santa. I’m sure you’ve heard it all your life. I’m looking forward to seeing you soon. I understand you like milk and cookies. I have plenty of milk – If you know what I mean – and the cookie (ha ha!) is baked and waiting. Sincerely, Samantha. I posted the letter to some address in Finland and during the office Christmas party, he showed up. He took me to my office and we got our freak on, all the way to Timbaktu and back. Before he left he handed me the letter I posted. I’m re-reading it right now. Yes, Santa is real. My boss pops his head around my door: “Samantha, could you…” His voice trails off when he sees what I’m holding. “Oh, the Santa letter. Good! How did that go?” he asks. “How do you know about my letter to Santa?” I ask, taken aback. He smiles. “You put our office address at the back of the letter so it came back when it was not delivered,” he tells me. “And since the letter was to Santa I figured I could open it and make your wish come true.” I blush with embarrassment, picturing my boss reading what I wrote in the letter. “Finding an attractive guy to fulfil your Santa fantasy was not that hard. Did you enjoy it?” he asks. “Oh my, is that the time!” I gasp, looking at my watch. “Sorry but I have a meeting that I need to go for.” I don’t. But I’m not going to sit here and discuss with my boss what happened in this office, on my desk (Oh, lawd! I can’t look at the desk without remembering the white beard between my legs). He looks amused and appears to be enjoying my discomfort. “Ho ho ho…” he says as he walks out. He says it in a playful tone. Bastard. He’s never going to let me forget this. I tear the letter up and throw it in the bin. Santa wasn’t real after all. The realisation hurts just as badly as it did when I was seven years old.