The Interior Ministry yesterday launched a Digital Human Resource Information System to speed up processes and improve transparency. The system will enhance quick and efficient processing of transfers, leave and promotions The launch happened in Kilifi presided over by Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’ and his ICT counterpart Joe Mucheru. Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinett was the first officer to be registered. Matiang’i said other services including personnel management, administrative systems, processes and Occurrence Book (OB) details will soon be digitised as the ministry strives to fully digitise police services. “This system now gives the inspector general a bird’s eye view of the National Police Service, making it easy to identify vacancies and the skills needed to fill in these vacancies," he said. The minister said they are beginning to institute meritocracy over nepotism. "It’s no longer about who you know, but, what you know,” Matiang’i said. The CS said an IT course will be integrated in the police training curriculum beginning with the next intake. “Police officers must embrace technology and that’s why for the six months a police officer will be at the police training college he will also learn IT," he said. The CS said he wants a situation where police officers can access their information and apply for their leave and followup through their phones. Read also: Officers free to resign, pursue other jobs in reforms – NPSC Under the new system, the disappearance of records will soon be a thing of the past as all Occurrence Books (OB) at police stations will also be digitized in due course. "We will also be able to monitor how a case is moving, from the investigative officer to its logical conclusion,” Matiang’i saids On his part, Mucheru said the system will help counter the evolving criminal tactics. “Embracing technology is no-longer an option for all government departments, especially the security sector. We will make sure the police data gathered is secure through a biometric system,” Mucheru said. The system will be integrated with the Judiciary to speed up cases from the police. The Inspector General of Police, Joseph Boinnet, noted that the system will bring fairness in the police disciplinary process. He said migration from a manual to a digital system demonstrates the National Police Service’s commitment towards transparency and accountability. He added that members of the public should expect to receive better service when the Criminal Management System is digitized. Some of the information the Human Resource Information System will capture includes, biometric data of each officer, certificate of appointment, national identity card details, KRA PIN, family background, academic qualifications, rank, and service history. Click here for
the latest political news