President Uhuru Kenyatta has called for unity among leaders, saying the move would create a conducive environment for more development to be realised in the country. The President said a united Kenya would further consolidate the gains made by the Jubilee government since it assumed power in 2013. “We do not want the politics of tribalism and division. We are all focused on building bridges of unity and friendship,” he said on Saturday during the installation of Phillip Anyolo as the Archbishop of the Kisumu Archdiocese. The event was attended by various leaders including Deputy President William Ruto, Former Prime Minister Raila Odinga, Governors Wycliffe Wangamati (Bungoma), Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o (Kisumu), Senators Moses Wetangula (Bungoma), Moses Kajwang’ (Homa Bay) and Rose Nyamunga (nominated). MPs in attendance were Wafula Wamunyinyi (Kanduyi), Chris Wamalwa (Kiminini), Fred Outa (Nyando), Otiende Amollo (Rarieda), Eseli Simiyu (Tongaren), Kimani Ichungwa (Kikuyu), Anthony Oluoch (Mathare), Shakeel Shabbir (Kisumu East), Olago Aluoch (Kisumu West), Charles Gimose (Hamisi) and Rosa Buyu (Woman Representative, Kisumu). In his speech read by Cabinet Secretary for Defence Raychelle Omamo, Mr Kenyatta said Kenyans must embrace one another for common purpose. “We need to respect our differences so as to strengthen our unity. We welcome the church in helping the government champion for the realisation of the Big Four agenda,” he added. The president noted that Kenya had entered into a new phase in the fight against corruption and impunity, and religious organisations “must play a role in this with a little more vigour”. While appreciating the partnership between the church and the government in serving Kenyans, Dr Ruto said more needs to be done to uplift the livelihoods of Kenyans. He asked leaders to embrace the politics that is oriented to empowering Kenyans, said gone are the times for excuses and scapegoats. “We must deliver on the Big Four agenda, and create opportunities for all. Women need to be empowered and youths need jobs,” he said. On his part, Mr Odinga noted that despite failing to make it to Canaan, his Handshake with the President provided an opportunity for the country to further devolution and fight tribalism and corruption. Bungoma Senator said there is need for Kenyans to look back and see what they were fighting for in the past “as part of our learning curve in politics”. “Now we have some political hygiene, let us be unified. We need to work together as a country and the church must be prominent in pushing for this,” he said, adding that Kenyans need to sit together, assess the current constitution and see what needs to be worked on. Cardinal John Njue said Kenyans need to think and work together to prepare a better heritage for those who come after them. In the event, Dr Ruto gifted the new Kisumu Archdiocese with a brand new car. Read: [PHOTOS] Raila, Ruto attend Archbishop Philip Anyolo's installation Click here for the latest political news