In 2010, Kenya was one of the world’s worst in prudent use of billions of donor funds for HIV-Aids, malaria and TB. Today, it’s one of the best. Kenya has received a rare commendation for wise use of donated funds to fight these diseases. In its latest investigation, the Global Fund praised the Ministry of Health and Kenya’s drugs supply system as good examples for other African countries to follow. The Global Fund finances most of Kenya’s HIV, malaria and TB programmes. It has invested more than Sh100 billion in the country since 2003. “The Global Fund believes that every dollar counts and has zero tolerance for fraud, corruption and waste that prevent resources from reaching the people who need them,” the fund says in its latest audit report on grants to Kenya. The report, completed in November last year, says recent grants to Kenya are achieving the intended impact. It says the number of new malaria cases decreased by 47 per cent between 2015 and 2017. Read: Why Kenya must address sustainability in the funding of HIV, TB and Malaria Aids-related deaths decreased by 38 per cent between 2013 and 2015. The number of people on life-prolonging ARVs increased by 52 per cent between 2013 and 2016. “Approximately 60 per cent of Global Fund grants to Kenya are spent on procuring medicine and health products. Procurement processes are able to get medicines at cheaper prices than the Global Fund’s pooled procurement mechanism,” the audit report by the GF’s Office of Inspector General shows. This is rare praise for a ministry that was struggling to win donor confidence. In 2010, independent watchdog Aidspan said Kenya’s ranking by the Global Fund was probably the worst in the world. In 2012, the fund forced Kenya to refund Sh270 million that had been embezzled. Later, Kenya was listed Kenya among 24 countries with ‘challenging operating environments’ due to lack of accountability. The ministry has been strengthening its systems to seal loopholes that were exploited in the past. Last week, an independent assessment by Aidspan praised Kenya for its commitment to fight the three diseases. “Indeed, the country meets all its counterpart financing commitments and it fulfilled its $5 million [Sh500 million] pledge to the Global Fund’s 5th Replenishment,” Aidspan said. Kenya has an active Global Fund grant of Sh38.4 billion ($384 million) for January 2018 to June 2021. The Fund particularly cited the country’s procurement and supply chain as good examples of a well-functioning system. The Kenya Medical Supplies Authority procures Global Fund-supported medical supplies directly. Most African countries buy through the pooled procurement mechanism, a Global Fund initiative created to negotiate lower prices. Contrary to expectation, Kemsa obtains commodities at prices lower than those of the pooled procurement mechanism. The prices were 21 per cent lower for 2016 and 2017, the audit says. More: Kenya needs Sh84bn for HIV, malaria and TB treatment - Tum Click here for the latest political news