Bahati MP Kimani Ngunjiri has denied claims that he has been bribed by DP William Ruto to criticise President Uhuru Kenyatta's development record in Central region. Ngunjiri on Thursday said those making such allegations are political orphans and are using the current turbulence in Jubilee Party to make a political comeback. He was referring to Narc-Kenya Martha Karua and former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth who on Wednesday hit at the MP saying he was being sponsored to blackmail Uhuru. "My age and principles do not allow me to be bribed. I'm just waiting to go to heaven although not that quickly and thus the assertions that I have been bribed hold no water. I'm only speaking what my people want me to," Ngunjiri said on Thursday during an interview at the Star offices in Nairobi. Both Karua and Kenneth unsuccessfully contested for the Kirinyaga and Nairobi governor's seat but lost to Anne Waiguru and Mike Sonko respectively. Ngunjiri and Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria have been accusing the President of neglecting the Central region and concentrating on opposition strongholds especially after the Handshake. "We know there are various projects being done under the CDF and devolution. But what we are demanding is a share from the national cake. Kikuyu's have been in power for 35 years and if we were to imagine that if the president comes from your region then you have it all, the Kikuyu's won't be crying by now," he added. Read: Police hunt for MP Kimani Ngunjiri after 'mshenzi' movement march With regards to 2022 politics, Ngunjiri said they are reading betrayal in Uhuru's latest moves against the DP. He confirmed that Jubilee Party does not have any MoU to back Ruto in 2022 but maintained that the Mt Kenya region has a role to return a hand to Ruto for supporting Uhuru in his two terms. "I can confidently say that Mt Kenya has no debt. It is however common knowledge that if someone has done you so well you return the favour. If I buy you, for instance, three beers it is only wise that you buy me one and that is how it goes," he said. He said Uhuru's remarks that Kenyans should be in for a shock in relation to the 2022 race has left a storm within the party. "It is not automatic that we support Ruto come 2022. But when the president says there will be a shocker yet he has been demanding that we support DP Ruto then we feel betrayed and cheated," Ngunjiri noted. "Why should he, for instance, travel to Mombasa and invite opposition leader who has been fighting him over the years to discuss matters of a cabinet as it is being rumoured?. Ruto has shown dedication, he is busy launching projects here and there yet my president is letting him down," he added. More on this read: I will have my say on 2022 politics, Uhuru tells critics Ngunjiri said though they support the friendship between Raila and Uhuru, they are convinced that the move has done more harm to Jubilee than expected. "We know Raila is a man of confusion. It is his history that everywhere he goes confusion must erupt and that is what has just happened to us. If we continue with such we are likely going to see people go back to their tribal lines and in the end, his Agenda 4 will collapse," he said. Also read: Ruto rushes to defend Uhuru against attacks More; [VIDEO] Bahati MP Kimani Ngunjiri starts 'mshenzi' movement after Uhuru slur Click here for the latest political news