Gor Mahia coach Hassan Oktay believes they have a chance to progress to the CAF Confederations Cup group stage despite a narrow 2-1 win over New Star Douala of Cameroon in a qualifying encounter at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani yesterday. Oktay accused his opponents of playing dirty tactics of time wasting and feigning injuries but maintains progression is still within reach when the two sides battle it out in a week’s time. “We only need to compose ourselves away and ensure we don’t concede in Douala. Lawrence Juma broke the deadlock for K’Ogalo in the first half which was cancelled out by Roddy Wanga’s 72nd minute effort. However, Jacques Tuyisenge ensured Gor have the upper hand heading for the second leg after notching a late winner. Gor attacked from the onset with Boniface Omondi failing to connect to a Francis Mustapha cross in the 6th minute. The home side was at it again with Omondi feeding Francis Mustapha, only for the Burundian to hit the post with a hard shot with Patrick Kibeyn beaten. Gor pegged the visitors in their half with wave after wave of attack but the backline kept the frontline of Jacques Tuyisenge and Francis Mustapha at bay. New stars soaked pressure from the back but rarely troubled Gor as they were unable to go past the half way line. Gor made use of procession but still couldn’t get a shot on target as Francis Kahata missed a free kick in a promising position for a fruitless corner on quarter hour mark. Stars’ captain Junior Ngangan broke lose but was stopped on his tracks by Joachim Oluoch twice in the 17th and 20th minute. Gor kept knocking and in the 30th minute Omondi shot straight at the keeper from Shafiq Batambuze’s through pass. Gor maintained the high tempo in the second half but the wasteful strikers failed to add to their advantage. With the first half headed to a baren draw Lawrence Juma gave Kogallo a 41st minute lead. Juma chested Kahata’s cross from the left to place the ball past stranded Douala keeper Kibyen in the 41st minute. Gor piled more pressure but could not find the back of the net, with the Central Africans frustrating their efforts u sitting back and defending Against the run of play Roddy Wanga equalized for the visitors with a free header in 72nd minute from a corner with the centre back pair of Charles Momanyi and Joachim Oluoch caught napping. Immediately after conceding, Oktay replaced Omondi with Samuel Onyango in the 75th minute before pulling out Mustapha for Erissa Sekisambu, as he chased the winner. The two made no difference prompting Okay to bring in George Odhiambo for Kahata. Tusyisenge claimed a crucial winner three minutes to time after rising highest to head home Batambuze’s left wing cross. Sekisambu came agonisingly in the 90th minute but his shot went off the upright. Meanwhile, Gor Mahia will know the fate of their suspended captain Harun Shakava and defensive partner Joash Onyango when a CAF Disciplinary board meeting listens to their case this evening at the continental body’s headquarters in Cairo Egypt. The two were suspended indefinitely by CAF the last week following disciplinary issues during their CAF champions league loss to Nigeria’s Lobi stars in Enugu last month.