Refreshing Mombasa residents with a glass of sugarcane juice has seen Hamisi Banzi finish his college course. It has also taken him to another level of buying a plot and opening another business. He was introduced to the business by his uncle. It is important that the juice is fresh, as it becomes bad after three hours of storage. When Banzi gets a customer, the juice is prepared in front of the customer. “The juice loses its taste when it stays for more than three hours. It actually loses its original taste,” he says. To enhance flavour, Banzi adds lemon and ginger. This mixture, he says, has medicinal value. Drinking the juice improves the health of an individual, so he ensures he does his business with passion. “It helps in clearing the kidneys and the liver, and it also cures yellow fever,” he says. With it being completely natural, no additives or any chemicals are added, Banzi calls for many people to take the drink and make it a day-to-day body take in. The business is cost-effective as he does not have to look for other ingredients to make his product tasty. He does not have to think of buying sugar to taste because the sugar is already natural in the cane. This is a cost saver, as sometimes sugar prices skyrocket, so he does not have to go through such stress. The only cost he would have to incur is electricity bills, as the machine used to extract the juice out of the sugarcane uses electricity. Banzi sells a 300ml glass for Sh50, while 500ml goes for Sh100. He makes about Sh3,000 a day. He ensures he serves it cold, bearing in mind how the Coast region's temperatures are high at the moment. During the cold season, however, the business goes down, as people do not get thirsty often.  NUTRITIONAL VALUE Kanco nutrition advocacy officer Martina Adega recommends two cups daily to ensure a healthy body. Emphasising on mixing the juice with ginger and lemon, she says it can work wonders. “The combination helps to improve immunity,” she says. Some of the benefits of sugar cane juice as advocated by Adega are: helps in wound healing; gets rid of bad breath and brown teeth; helps in relieving sore throat and colds; reduces chances of getting cancer; reduces high fever especially in babies; helps in curing kidney stones and purifying the kidneys. Other benefits are: reduces cholesterol; stabilises sugar levels; reduces fatigue; quenches thirst; reduces acne when applied on the face for 30 minutes and then wash; reduces nausea; Stabilises high blood pressure; and cures jaundice in children. Over and above sugar cane juice, Adega calls for proper and correct balanced diet every day.  CUSTOMER'S TESTIMONY Nuru Abdhulrahman says she was advised to give her son a spoonful of sugarcane juice when she noticed his eyes were turning yellow. “He was diagnosed with yellow fever but it was not that chronic. Someone advised me to give him a spoonful of sugarcane juice everyday, and for sure, I saw some improvements in his health,” she says. Nuru only used to see sugarcane juice vendors on the streets busy extracting the juice but did not know it could cure her son. She says she has now adopted a habit of buying the juice at least once a week so her family can benefit from this pure natural juice. 