The government will launch direct miraa flights from Isiolo International Airport by the end of this month, Trade CS Peter Munya has said. Munya on Tuesday said President Uhuru Kenyatta has directed his ministry and that of Transport to fast track the remaining construction bit of the airport to ensure miraa cargo flights are launch by end of the month. “We are fast tracking the construction so that miraa trade and transportation can be moved from Wilson Airport to Isiolo International Airport,” Munya said. He spoke at his home in Tigania East. He said the original idea of Isiolo Airport was to decongest the movement of miraa at Wilson Airport by ensuring that planes transported the product to Mogadishu and elsewhere from Isiolo. CARTELS Munya said his ministry was keen on identifying new miraa markets. “There is a lot we are doing to find more markets. The continental free trade area will present opportunity to all products export including miraa,” he said. He said the ministry was also addressing major bottlenecks in the marketing of other products including coffee. The CS said farmers have little access to marketers and were exposed to too much bureaucracy in getting licenses and premium that can enable them sell directly to exporters. “Our pricing institutions have largely been controlled by cartels. We want to remove the opaqueness and ensure the system is opened up,” he said. Meanwhile, Munya said expanding the executive was the only way to avoid discrepancies and shortcomings of Kenyan political system. Munya lauded the handshake between Uhuru and ODM leader Raila Odinga. “Their initiative on the referendum is clear so we can do away with exclusive leadership,” he said. “The outcome of every elections are contested because the current Constitution is configured such that certain populations must be excluded at the national level.” That exclusion continues to generate conflicts and disagreements which continuously interrupt the economy and developments every elections cycle, Munya said. Munya said the restructuring should have a president, deputy president with a prime minister and two deputy prime ministers. “Having the five in the executive will accommodate almost two thirds of the population,” Munya said.