A series of books for use in the new curriculum have been recalled after it was realised they have errors. The books released earlier this month have misleading information including erroneous calculations, spelling and grammatical mistakes. The books are for grades one, two and three. One of the books says a clock has two hands indicating the hour and minutes. But the information accompanying the illustration states the wrong time. Another book with a set of pictures labels one of them as popcorn while it is biscuits. Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development in a statement yesterday appealed to head teachers to ensure books used for the new curriculum meet requirements. “Textbooks are important in curriculum delivery. They must be the right ones to ensure learners are not treated to misleading content,” KICD director Julius Jwan said. Jwan siad unscrupulous traders might take advantage of introduction of the competence-based curriculum to sell substandard books. “We are monitoring the situation, especially those inserting fake imprints on such books. But all of us must remain vigilant to protect our children,” he said. Kenya Publishers Association chairman Lawrence Njagi said publishers lose more than Sh100 million every year due to fraud “This has been a major setback in the publishing industry. Most of the books in the market have barely gone through any approval but are considered as trusted sources of information, which is very dangerous for the learners and bad for business,” he told the Star yesterday. Jwan asked head teachers and parents to visit KICD’s website to ascertain the genuine textbooks. On January 2, Education CS Amina Mohamed directed officers to confirm that only KICD approved books are used. “Ensure that course books and other instructional materials reach all the public primary schools,” she CS said while issuing guidelines on the new curriculum. Read: New rules restrict learning to approved error-free textbooks Click here for
the latest political news