An advocacy group Elimu Yetu Coalition wants Education CS Amina Mohamed to explain to Kenyans the delay in the plan to implement the new curriculum system. The group says a lot of Kenyans had already prepared to embrace the new system by purchasing the new books and other materials required to have learners acquire its ideas. Speaking to the press in a Nairobi hotel recently, group national coordinator Joseph Wasikhongo said conferences and meetings will not help those affected save their monies. "Apologise to Kenyans. We must have a country where programmes are rolled out after being well planned," he said. Wasikhongo said already, some investors had invested huge sums of money in purchasing the new curriculum materials, hence the need to look for a way of helping them. "For instance, some bookshops purchased new curriculum materials. Where will they take them now that the programme has flopped? We must address this issue now," he said. Denis Wesonga, the outgoing Elimu Yetu chairperson, said some pre-units are teaching learners based on the new curriculum system, so children could be misadvised if nothing is done. "The ministry must learn to get advice from education stakeholders to avoid such scenarios in future. Most importantly I urge him to come and tell Kenyans the way forward before schools reopen," he said. Amina last month said the ministry is not ready for the reformed education system. She said the plan is on hold and will be decided this month. The CS said an education conference will review the new 2-6-3-3-3 system and decide the way forward. “This conference was to be held in December, but because the evaluation has not not been done, we decided to push it to early January,” she said. She said children who are already in the new system will not be affected. “Its full roll-out will wait for the conference. We expect to come up with a clear roadmap,” Amina said. She denied that the system had collapsed or been suspended for lack of money and resources. The new system was part of the wide-ranging education reforms that were to eliminate rote learning to pass exams in favour of developing individual learners and recognising their abilities.