Doctors have asked for more time to provide their views before their professional fees are officially reviewed and reduced. The Kenya Medical Association said Tuesday’s public participation meeting was “rushed” and lacked input from professionals. “The association is willing to enter into a broad-based discussion on total healthcare costs, not limited to private practitioners’ professional fees,” KMA president Jackline Kitulu said in a statement. Separately, association CEO Dr Simon Kigondu said the public is being misled that lowering the professional fees would help Kenya achieve Universal Health Care coverage. “We would like the government to clarify the relationship between UHC and private providers,” he said. KMA is a voluntary membership doctors’ lobby with about 3,000 members. Most members skipped the public participation meeting called by the Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Board to review the 2016 professional fees guidelines for doctors and dentists. The guidelines set the minimum and maximum fees that professionals in private practice can charge for procedures. MPs and the government have complained the fees charged by private doctors are exorbitant and must come down. KMPDB chairman George Magoha said the move by KMA to skip Tuesday’s meeting would not invalidate the outcome because other doctors attended the forum. “We are all brothers and sisters. All doctors are one, that is what the Hippocratic oath says,” he said. Read: Doctors should stop charging Sh60,000 for circumcision, board proposes Magoha said the proposals made on Tuesday will be submitted to the Health CS today. Among the suggestions the board will make will be to cut maximum fees for any procedure by 20 per cent. “An ad hoc committee formed by the board had suggested a 20 per cent reduction of the minimum and maximum charges, but the full board decided to only slash the maximum fees,” Magoha said. On Tuesday, the public, insurers, and NGOs representing consumers complained the 2016 fees were unreasonable and would hinder the country from achieving the UHC coverage. “For a single court appearance, a doctor is allowed to charge a maximum Sh120,000. That’s unacceptable,” Kiama William, from the Association of Kenya Insurers, said. The Consumer Federation of Kenya (Cofek) also called for itemised billing in all hospitals, as more patients report billing problems. The fees were gazetted by former Health CS Cleopa Mailu in 2016. Ndaragua MP Jeremiah Kioni, who chairs the constitutional implementation oversight committee, said they have proposed the minimum fees be scrapped so the guidelines only set the maximum fees. “The majority of Kenyans are in the low-income bracket and many have no income. They can only pay through harambees. These harambees make other Kenyans poorer,” he said. Click here for
the latest political news 