A furious President Kenyatta took MP Moses Kuria head on yesterday over claims the government had neglected infrastructure projects in Mt Kenya region. At the same time Kenyatta said no political ambition was bigger or more important than the unity and peace of the nation. In what observers believe was a well-aimed salvo at the politicians gunning to have Deputy President succeed him in 2022, Kenyatta told his critics that his decision to work with opposition chief Raila Odinga, was for the common good. He would not be intimidated by the likes of Kuria who thrive on political threats. “I, my friends, am not one to be easily intimidated. Especially when I know the path I have taken and where I want to go is the best place for Kenya,” said Uhuru. He spoke in Mombasa during the ground-breaking ceremony of Mama Ngina Drive Regeneration project. Gatundu South MP Kuria on December 31 criticised Kenyatta claiming Mt Kenya region had been ignored because Kenyatta was busy initiating projects in regions that did not even vote for Jubilee. His remarks sparked off criticism that forced him to apologise to Kenyatta. Kuria later claimed he had been quoted out of context. Keen to have the last word, Kuria fired back only hours after the tongue-lashing. Read: Moses Kuria fires back at Uhuru, insists Mt Kenya starved of development He said: “H.E the President is 100 per cent right...we need development in every corner of this country. It is in that spirit and in line with the President’s position that I believe Mt Kenya also deserves development just like any other region,” he said. Via his Facebook page, Kuria said the case of the Central region, the equal development the Head of State is talking about is not visible. “Right now, it is not happening,” he said. Uhuru said yesterday: “Some of us have said development will not depend on where a leader comes from. We want development for the over 45 million Kenyans all over the country.” The country has lagged behind because of the mentality politicians like Kuria that leaders must only develop the regions where they come from. He will continue traversing the country for development projects alongside ODM leader and AU envoy Odinga. “It cannot be that development is only found in areas where a leader comes from….We want a country where every single citizen is entitled to development regardless of where the leader comes from,” he said. “Kwa hivyo hao washenzi waachane na mimi. Na hivyo ndivyo itakua. (So those stupid people should leave me alone. And that is the way it will be),” Uhuru said. Raila said politicians should give Uhuru and himself time to serve the people. The country was headed for a dark period and this prompted Uhuru and him to stop and think about the repercussions of their political rivalry. “2022 will come. There will be men and women in the ballot. We are still in 2019. Let these guys give us time to develop the country,” said Raila. Uhuru said together with Raila, they have embarked on a new political path devoid of blood-letting. “There are some things that we don’t want repeated in this country. Politics cannot be blood-letting. Politics cannot be about hurting your fellow countryman,” said Uhuru. “If we say every Kenyan must be able to access good affordable healthcare, what wrong have we done? If my brother Raila says that we must work together, is there anything wrong?” posed Uhuru. “Is there a Kenyan, whether in ODM or Jubilee, who says they never get thirsty and will never want clean drinking water? He said selfish political ambition should never supersede right to quality life. “If, truly, you care about the interests of the citizens why would you have differences? That is why I will continue thanking my brother Raila Odinga and all opposition leaders they refused to consider themselves and considered Kenyans,” said Uhuru. See also: Stop premature 2022 succession politics - Governor Lee Kinyanjui Click here for
the latest political news