Parents in Kisumu have criticised teachers for calling a strike every time things don’t go their way, saying today’s planned work boycott will affect students. Those who spoke to the Star yesterday said the Kenya National Union of Teachers was putting tutors’ interests ahead of students’ rights to education. Talks to avert the strike fell apart on Tuesday with Knut accusing the Teachers Service Commission of staying away from a dialogue meeting. Knut secretary general Wilson Sossion insisted teachers will go on strike from today if TSC does not rescind transfers and delocalisation. Mary Anyango, whose son is a student at Kakamega High School, said the union was “becoming too much with strike threats.” She said the planned strike is uncalled for. “There was a conciliation committee formed to address the issues and we also have a court order barring the strike. Teachers should not defy order,” Anyango said and called for honesty in dialogue between TSC and Knut. Mark Owino said he will wait and see whether the strike takes place before he takes his daughter to school. “I’m ready and prepared to take my daughter to school but the strike call has brought a bit of confusion,” he said. His daughter is among last year’s KCPE candidates set to join Form 1 next week. Davis Mulimi will take his children to school today despite the strike threat. Mulimi said he expects teachers to be in school given there is a court order against the strike. “I expect the teachers to be law- abiding citizens,” Mulimi said. He said parents were prepared to take their children to school for the first term of the calendar year. “The strike called by Knut is unnecessary.” Maureen Atieno, whose daughter is expected to sit the KCPE exam in November, said she will take her to school regardless of the strike threat. Yesterday, parents and students filled bookshops as they bought learning materials in readiness for the school re-opening. On Tuesday, the National Association of Parents said the timing of the strike was insensitive to the needs of learners. Association chairman Nicholas Maiyo said issues raised by Knut had already being addressed by TSC together with the ministries of Education and Labour. He said progress made on the discussions was good. Maiyo asked Knut to consider the right of children to education and the court order issued against the strike.