NTV’s investigative journalist Dennis Okari on Saturday proposed to his girlfriend, identified as Naomi Joy, at Eka Hotel Nairobi at exactly 9:40pm. "What I am going to say is not scripted or rehearsed, but it is coming from the bottom of my heart. I have no written speech," Dennis said. "I never planned for this but what I know is that this day was ordained by God to be around this lovely people. This is going to be a special day for me and you because you are a loving and God-fearing person, and I know that all the nice things I can get are from you, so today I wanted to just share this special moment. "The answer that I will get today will be etched in my memories for as long as I live. I will love you with all the wisdom that God will give me and not just to love you but also to love Him as well and to serve His people." This comes after a top-secret ruracio that was held in Ukambani in October last year. Everyone was calm as they waited for the man of the day to do his thing. Dennis went ahead to pop the question. "I can't wait to do life with you, and I can't wait to start the journey if only I get the answer that I am expecting. So before all these lovely people, family, friends and our parents here," he said. "This ring is just a symbol of my commitment to the covenant that we are going to make in one of these fine days. So I want to ask you, Naomi Joy, with everything that I have and everything that I am, will you marry me?" Overwhelmed by joy, she said yes and passionately, they hugged each other. Hours before the engagement, Dennis was seen at the venue looking sharp, dressed in black trousers, blue blazer, grey pull neck with a sense of African touch on the left-hand side and brown loafer shoes. Dennis arrived at Eka Hotel at exactly 8:20pm accompanied by an unrecognised female friend. He seemed quite uneasy and busy on the phone as he talked to the hotel's management crew. He went straight to the presumed booked area, which was slightly next to the coffee bar, where everything was set. From the ambience, table napkins were arranged in a suggestive way and the waiters stood strategically. At exactly 9:35pm, Dennis and some few friends stood in the entrance of the hotel, and shortly afterwards, celebrations filled the place as the lady walked in with some friends. There was no particular dress code colour, as everyone was in their own. The surprise engagement was attended exclusively by family members and close friends of the two.