Opposition chief Raila Odinga yesterday singled out corruption, divisions among Kenyans and impunity among the issues that must be tackled in the New Year to guarantee prosperity for all. In his goodwill message, the former Prime Minister said the handshake with President Uhuru Kenyatta in March was among key milestones achieved last year. Raila said the end of one year is often a hopeful time because it ushers in a new year. “As we wind down 2018, I join you fellow Kenyans in your hopes and wish you a rewarding 2019. While 2018 began as a difficult year, we end it on a hopeful and sane note. I am confident that brighter days are ahead of us,” Raila said. “In 2018, we chose unity over division. We chose to let the corrupt carry their baggage and pay the price of their sins. We chose a peaceful environment that allows trade and businesses to thrive and jobs to return. We did this by retracing our steps and agreeing to start over again. We have a long way to go. But if we carry the spirit of difficult but positive choices we made in 2018 into 2019, we shall triumph and be a happier and better country.” He said he does not regret accepting to end political tussles with Uhuru. Raila asked African countries that will hold elections this new year to remain peaceful. “I commit to stick to those difficult positive choices of 2018 and to make more of such so long as they carry Kenya and Africa forward in 2019. Let’s make the choices together,” he said. “Across our borders, many countries in Africa are going to have elections in 2019. They too will have critical choices to make. We wish them peaceful, transparent and democratic processes.” ETHNIC BALKANISATION He asked Kenyans to make god choices in 2019, saying they will be defined by their actions. “We can unite against corruption and impunity that have long ruined us, or tolerate them and let their purveyors divide us and hold us at ransom,” he said. He warned against ethnic balkanisation, saying it can cause chaos and wars. “Whenever we feel we have lost our way, we can start over and retrace our steps or we can continue down the same wrong path and face its ugly consequences. It is all within our power to make these choices”. Click here for the latest political news