The Directorate of Criminal Investigations has urged the court not to suspend criminal proceedings facing two directors of Web Tribe Jambo Pay over the Sh1.1 billion NHIF scam. In an affidavit, DCI investigating officer Clement Marubu says Danson Muchemi and Robert Muna entered into numerous illegal contracts with the National Health Insurance Fund management. “The numerous illegal contracts between the two were a well-orchestrated collusion geared towards siphoning colossal public funds to the benefit of the directors,” it reads. Muchemi and Muna were arraigned alongside 16 others, including NHIF chief executives Geoffrey Gitau Mwangi and Simon Kirgotty. It is alleged that between August 15, 2014, and October 31, 2018, the directors jointly acquired Sh1.1 billion from the NHIF. Mwangi and Kirgotty denied a charge of authorising payment of more than Sh545 million to Web Tribe Limited. This was one of the 17 counts they faced. Marubu says the directors were charged based on evidence establishing that they fraudulently acquired money under the guise of implementing the contract between them and the fund. Court documents indicate the DCI received a report alleging financial misappropriation at the NHIF, arising from unlawful award and extension of a tender contract to provide integrated revenue collection services to Web Tribe Limited. Examination of the tender documents (bids) indicated that all other bidders conformed to the advertisement that sought “provision o f integrated revenue collection system”. But the directors submitted tender documents to provide integrated revenue collection services, which did not meet the specifications of what NHIF had tendered, Marubu reveals. “On May 2014, the tender evaluation committee recommended award of the tender to the lowest bidder m/s Web Tribe Ltd and a contract for provision of integrated revenue collection services, instead of a contract for provision of integrated revenue collection system,” the documents reads. A month later, the NHIF management board and Web Tribe Limited entered into a three-year contract to provide integrated revenue collection services. It was to expire last year on June 30. The directors unlawfully entered into an agreement with NHIF officials who are their co-accused in a criminal case, Maburu says. He adds, “The directors, in collusion with senior NHIF officials, entered into further illegal contracts that led to a further illegal payment of over Sh253 million. [That amount] was over and above the estimated budget to Muchemi and Muna.” The court will rule on Friday.