A civil society group in Kisumu wants Education CS Amina Mohamed to swiftly constitute a new board at the Kisumu National Polytechnic. Terms of board members have expired and the group said the conduct of some of them should be investigated by police . Community Initiative Action Group Kenya said the vacuum has stalled operations at the institution that has more than 10,000 learners. Led by regional coordinator Chrispin Owala, the group said a new board will instil a sense of belonging to the institution. “Some former board members have been hanging about since they have vested interests there. They should be replaced,” Owala said. Owala, an alumnus, said it would be in the best interests of the community for a new board to be set up. The coordinator also asked police to investigate some board members whom he said recently stormed the Accounts department, claiming they wanted to audit the institution. “We want to know who gave the board members the mandate of internal auditors at a national institution. Those involved should explain their motive,” he said. Last week, a section of board members pledged to reject what they called plans by the government to post ‘a less qualified principal’ to replace Joyce Nyanjom, saying Nyanjom has a good track record. They promised to oppose the posting of Zedekiah Chanzu from Sigalagala Polytechnic to Kisumu, saying he is not qualified. Chanzu reported in July as the deputy principal in charge of finance. He asked whether it is mandatory for the head of a national polytechnic to hold a master’s degree or a doctorate. “They should blame the appointing authority,” he said on the phone. Many principals retired from service by end of 2018, Nyanjom among them. She was recalled for one year. The Kenya Association of Technical Training Institutes opposed the move to recall retired principals of national polytechnics. Association members who sought anonymity said a recall was in bad faith. In a circular released in December by the Directorate of Technical and Vocational Education and Training, retired principals were recalled to serve for a year. Those opposed said there is no shortage of personnel to take leadership positions in the TVET Institutions. The directorate put on hold all deployment of principals until January this year to include those whose contracts expired late last December.