A private developer behind the mass evictions and demolitions in Nyama Villa estate, Kayole, late last month is in more trouble. Mark Maina, the proprietor of the Marble Arch Hotel, has been mentioned in a report for allegedly acquiring 74 acres belonging to the Kenya Forest Service in Kiambu. The revelation is contained in the ‘Report On the Commission of Inquiry Into the Illegal/Irregular Allocation of Public Land’, commonly known as the Ndungu Report, Annexes Volume II. The report was presented to former President Mwai Kibaki in June 2014 for implementation, but the annexes were never made public. The annexes, exclusively obtained by the Star, show the tycoon, through his firm Pelican Engineering Company, excised 74.2 acres from the 333.95 acres of Kiambu Forest Block LR. No. 15153, in the 1990s. A search done by the Star at the Registrar of Companies shows Maina is the sole proprietor of Pelican Engineering Company. The firm’s offices are located along Limuru Road on plot LR. No. 209/2535/3. The firm was registered on August 13, 1982, as a private company under registration number C.23550. The report said Maina “took possession” of the land “illegally” and recommended revocation of the title. The Star visited the plot last Monday and found several luxury houses built on the land. Maina’s phone was switched off yesterday and he could not be reached. He did not respond to text messages. Public land Kenya Forest Service head of survey and mapping Evans Kegode said the entire Kiambu Forest is still gazetted as public land. “No single part of Kiambu Block has ever been degazetted and allocated to either a private or public entity,” Kegode said. Documents obtained by the Star shows that on February 6, 2006, the KFS issued a notice to Pelican Engineering Ltd to vacate the plot. But the firm, through D Njogu & Company Advocates, replied on February 10 stating that the notice was ‘vexatious and not worthy of any attention’ and asked KFS to withdraw the notice. “Our client was allocated the land and issued with a title deed according to law. Get the facts and seek legal advice,” the law firm said in the response. On February 21, 2006, then Lands PS Kombo Mwero issued a ministerial circular to the Attorney General and all accounting officers in government institutions that all public Land illegally allocated to private entities as captured in the Ndungu Report, be repossessed. A similar circular had been issued the year before. On December 18 last year, residents of Nyama Villa estate were woken up by bulldozers and excavators demolishing their houses. Maina, through Wiksam Auctioneer, descended on the estate. In a matter of hours, 70 flats had been pulled down. More than 20,000 tenants and developers were left homeless. The demolitions caused public outcry. The auctioneer produced court orders, allowing him to evict and pull down the flats. Besides Maina’s company, eight other entities have obtained title deeds for parts of the expansive forest land. They are Kiambu Women Group, Kuria Karanja (Tugurana Project), Webeso Investment and Agro-Pack Limited. Three other entities have claimed parts of the land but records at the KFS do not show their names. Read: Kayole demolitions man warns developers again Kayole demolitions On December 20, the second day of the demolitions in Kayole, Governor Mike Sonko confronted Maina in a phone conversation and hurled abuses at him. The governor threatened and accused him of faking the documents to claim ownership. Sonko claimed Maina faked the signature of former Mayor John Ndirangu to obtain ownership documents. Ndirangu, who accompanied Sonko, claimed he at one time testified in court and disowned the signature that appeared on the tycoon’s documents. Maina, through Muthithi Investment Ltd, had been in court with 23 developers (defendants) who he accused of invading his 25 acres and refusing to vacate despite several notices for more than 10 years. The Environment and Land Court judge J M Mutungi ruled in Maina’s favour in 2004. He ordered the illegal structures demolished and Maina compensated Sh1 million “for being prevented by the defendants from utilising its parcel of land.” Read: Christmas in the cold for 5,000 people as houses demolished in Kayole estate Click here for the latest political news