The National Police Service Referral Hospital will have a dedicated wing to handle gender-based violence victims, the Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet has said. Boinnet was speaking on Thursday during the launch of the National Police Service standard operating procedures for the prevention and response to gender-based violence in Kenya. "We will take such cases on seriously. That is why it is important to have a dedicated wing as a one-stop shop to handle victims," he said. The procedures once adopted will ensure police officers in all police stations, police posts, outposts and patrol bases adopt the same step-by-step process in handling GBV cases upon reporting of a violation. The IG said the launch was a giant step towards the journey to offering people-centred services. Read: Boinnet says plans underway to build hospital for police "We will empower our officers to ensure they deal with these cases with a great deal of sensitivity. They will be expected to deliver timely responses to these cases," Boinnet said. The officers will, for instance, be required to take statements in private for confidentiality. No statements will be taken at the front desk in the presence of everyone. He called on all Kenyans who go through GBV to take advantage of the 24-hour toll-free helplines provided (116 and 1195)  to seek urgent help. The IG said police response and attitude when handling reported cases will have a great impact on ensuring development including the prevention of future violent acts and protection of the victims. The 300-bed police hospital will be put up on a five-acre parcel donated by Kenyatta National Hospital opposite Mbagathi Hospital. It will have a forensic laboratory, doping test lab, a first-class emergency centre, a VIP suite and a mortuary. It will also have training and education, operation and maintenance support facilities where officers and their dependents will access quality and affordable care. Read also: Uhuru pledges to improve police welfare, offer robust medical insurance Click here for the latest political news 