Forgive, forget and pray for them because vengeance belongs to the Lord. These were the words of clerics at the Consolata Shrine in Nairobi during the memorial service of six DusitD2 Hotel workers killed in last week’s terror attack. Father Jackson Murugara, who presided over the service, asked the families to let off all the anger and pain so that the souls of their loved ones can rest in eternal peace. He also asked parents to interact with their children more often to increase chances of noticing strange behaviour. “The only way to overcome stress is by seeking to talk to someone. Don’t let depressions of life pull you to an extent that you seek solace in taking someone’s life,” Murugara said. He said life is precious and should be enjoyed from its beginning to the end. “No one should cut it short.” He asked parents to help the youth undergo mental check-ups to detect signs of radicalisation. “These are fundamental measures that if applied, can save our society. So don’t be afraid,” Murugara said. Hundreds of mourners paid tribute to Beatrice Mutua, Bernadette Konjalo, Trufosa Nyaboke, Erickson Momanyi, Dedricks Lemisi and Zachary Nyambwaga. Three were waitresses, one a chef and two security guards from Senaca Security Company. They were among 21 people killed by terrorists who stormed the upmarket hotel and business complex on Nairobi’s 14 Riverside Drive. “Sorrow fills my heart, a sorrow that is deep and personal because our lives will be empty in the areas you brightened. Your life exemplified brilliance and inspired emulation,” Millicent Juma said in eulogy to her colleague Nyaboke. Juma said Nyaboke was a living proof of how fine, simple and nice a person can be. “Things happened very fast and within minutes, I was at MP Shah where I saw my friend fight for her life,” she said. Juma said doctors struggled to save Nyaboke’s life and that when she was moved to the ICU, “I pushed myself in between doctors to see if she could regain consciousness.” Tears flowed freely down her cheeks as she eulogised a colleague who was also “a god friend.” A moment of silence followed after other colleagues were overwhelmed by emotions. “She was bleeding profusely. I saw more doctors run to her room. They didn’t want anyone in but I forced my way and kept insisting to them that she was my blood sister,” Juma said. At that point, Nyaboke’s condition worsened as doctors asked for a second adrenaline. She told mourners that she prayed several times because “I realised crying was not helping anymore.” Juma saw Nyaboke grasp her last breath. She said her friend was bleeding from the lungs. “She stretch her left leg and I thought things were getting better. About two minutes later, doctors walked out of her room. They did not speak,” she said. Juma ran after them in anguish. Then the sad news was broken with doctors saying Nyaboke’s heart had stopped. Leon Ochieng described Momanyi as a hardworking, selfless man who was full of love. He inspired peopled and encouraged those who were in their worst moments. “Many times, we wait until a friend has died to tell the world what a wonderful person they were. I’m guilty about that. Your death came with questions, lessons and memories,”Ochieng said. Merrylyne Cheroitich said Mutua was a mentor, a friend, a confidant who she considered her “elder sister.” Konjalo was described as a person with a great sense of humour, fashion conscious and an excellent communicator. “She never stepped on peoples feet while at it,” Doreen Amateshe said. The hotel’s general manager Michael Metaxas said though they had been hurt and wounded, they remain unbowed and would rise up stronger and better. He said the employees were hardworking and dedicated to all they did. Metaxas said the two security guards died because they fought and defended the rest of the workers. “We are here today celebrating because they fought a good fight. We have lost them but we hold them dear to our hearts,” Metaxas said. He said the management will support the families. Tourism CS Najib Balala said the government was ready to support the hotel get back on its feet. “Many of us will be your first customers when you reopen,” Balala said in a speech read by PS Joe Okudo. 