Muslims leaders in Lamu have expressed their anger over the recent Supreme Court ruling barring Muslim girls from donning hijabs in non-Muslim schools. This now means Muslim girls might have to go to school without hijab. Hijab is a veil that covers the head and chest and is worn by Muslim women. The Lamu Muslims Association, cultural organizations and activist condemned the ruling terming it provocative and demeaning of the Islamic faith. Speaking in Lamu town on Sunday, they said the decision was not only unfair but also a direct contravention of the constitution which provides for freedom of worship. Lamu Cultural Promotional Group chairperson Ghalib Alwy said hijab was not just religious clothing but also carries a heavy cultural statement for Muslim women. Read: Supreme Court wrong to ban hijab for schoolgirls, say angry Muslim leaders He said the garment cannot be forcefully removed unless by the willful decision of the wearer which in most times is in the privacy of their homes. “It's not just a piece of cloth, it carries a heavy religious connotation. Muslim women can’t do without the hijab where they are. It has never happened and definitely won't ever. Giving schools powers to decide the fate of such attires means we are opening doors for students from certain religious backgrounds to be openly frustrated,” said Alwy. The Lamu Muslims Association Representative Hussein Miji said the ruling undermines the rights of Muslims and for no apparent reason. The chairperson of the Save Lamu activist group Mohamed Abubakar urged president Uhuru Kenyatta to intervene and provide direction on the matter. “Of course we understand the Judiciary is very much independent but that doesn’t give it the right to make controversial decisions. It doesn’t give them the right to overstep their boundaries and thereby the constitution. At times like this, the president can lend his voice so that the discomfort can be addressed amicably,” said Abubakar. Also read: Blow for Muslim students as Supreme Court overturns ruling allowing them to wear hijabs Click here for the latest political news