Kirinyaga woman rep Wangui Ngirici has called on governor Anne Waiguru to dialogue with MCAs to end the stalemate over bursary funds in the county. Speaking at Kiangwache village in Ndia constituency on Friday, Ngirici said the row over bursaries is giving Kirinyaga bad publicity. The legislator said it is time Waiguru reached out to the assembly. Ngirici said the executive should have followed due process before reducing the bursary allocation from Sh70 million to Sh20 million. She said the executive should have brought before the assembly a supplementary budget with recommendations for the reductions instead of implementing the reductions without the input of MCAs. "We should have respect among ourselves us leaders and consult each other on issues touching on Wanjiku.'' the women rep said. Waiguru's government in December slashed the bursary allocation even though it had been factored in the 2018- 2019 budget. On Wednesday while speaking at Kabonge village in Kirinyaga Central constituency,Waiguru said only the needy cases will be considered when her government awards bursary funds. She insisted MCAs will not be involved in the process a move that prompted the ward reps to call a special sitting on Thursday. The MCAs led by Kangai ward representative John Gitari have threatened to derail the executive's mandate in the assembly or even impeach the governor. Ngirici also called on parents and guardians to monitor their children so that they are not recruited into terrorism. She said it is unfortunate youths from Mt Kenya region are being lured into terror groups. "We have seen our youths being lured into such groups with the promise they will get 72 virgins if they commit heinous acts. That is utter nonsense. If the youths travel to other countries like Somalia you must inform the security agencies upon their return," Ngirici said. The lawmaker spoke when she distributed over Sh7 million to youths and women groups in the county. The money was from the national government affirmative action fund kitty. Click here for the latest political news