British aristocrat's son Alexander Monson was arrested while smoking marijuana, a witness said on Wednesday during the trial following his death. Richard Amala, a witness testifying in a case where three police officers and a retired officer are accused of murdering Monson, said he spoke to Monson hours before he was informed that he had passed on. Police officers Naftali Chege, Ismael Baraka and John Pamba have been charged alongside retired police officer Charles Munyiri with murdering the son of a British aristocrat in May 2012 at Diani, Kwale county. Monson is the son of Lord Nicholas Monson. Amala said Monson had been arrested alongside his son Andrew and he called the station to bail him out. He told judge Erick Ogola that he tried to bail out both his son and Monson but failed. He noted that arresting officer Chege declined to grant bail to Monson and claimed he had been arrested with drugs. “I asked Monson whether it was true on the drugs allegations. He confirmed to me that he was smoking bhang when he was arrested,” he said. Amala also told the court Monson further told him the tablets were medication prescribed to him by a doctor and they were not narcotic drugs. The hotelier at Diani said he left Monson in perfect shape when he left the police station alongside his son Andrew, who had been granted police bond. “I left Monson alive at the station only to be called a day later and told that he was dead,” he said. But in a contradictory testimony, Andrew Simiyu said Monson was not smoking when the police arrested them at the Tandoori bar. He said he was with Monson inside his car when the police stormed it. Simiyu said his friend had been using the phone and not smoking. He said the police had discovered a lit roll of bhang and they demanded to know whom it belonged to. The 33-year-old farmer said Monson denied smoking any bhang and knowing where it had come from. “The police ordered us out of the car before they searched and discovered a brown bag. We have never known the contents of that bag until today,” he noted. The hearing is ongoing. Read: Monson may have died from rifle blow Also Read: Lord Monson grieves: Money, power did not prevent my two sons' deaths Click here for the latest political news