High-flying returnees Western Stima will have their title chase put to test this afternoon when they host former champions Sofapaka at Moi Stadium Kisumu as the SportPesa Premier League enters its fifth round today. Stima, who returned to the top flight last year after a season in the National Super League, have convincingly won three out of their opening four fixtures and sit second with ten points but their superb start will be severely tested by Sofapaka, who have had arguably a fair start to the new season. The Paul Ogai-coached power men trail leaders Mathare United on goal difference and their tactical prowess against elite sides will be ascertained when they face Sofapaka who are ninth with five points and will be using the match to correct their wastefulness in front of the goal having wasted several clear cut chances in their two all draw against Ulinzi Stars in their last match. While Stima will be pursuing to extend their fine start, leaders Mathare United will be hoping to carry their good form and stay longer at the top when they play a win-less and second from bottom KCB at Moi Stadium, Kasarani. At the same time, champions Gor Mahia will be eying recovery following their 1-0 defeat to Kariobangi Sharks when they play Chemelil Sugar at Machakos Stadium. Gor sit in a unfamiliar 13th position with three points while Chemelil are 12th with four points. In other matches lined for the day, John Kamau will begin his tenure officially at Posta Rangers when he leads them against a wounded AFC Leopards at Afraha Stadium. Kamau served as Sammy ‘Pamzo’ Omollo’s assistant since the new season began and was elevated to the rank of head coach after the management of the club failed to renew Pamzo’s contract which expired in the final day of 2018. Rangers are 14th with three points and sit above Ingwe on goal difference . Kamau hopes to launch his tenure on a winning note and pile more miseries on Leopards who have extended their win-less run to four matches. Mt Kenya will give their quest for their maiden win of the season another stab when they confront Kariobangi Sharks at Machakos Stadium. The pointless Mt Kenya are part of the three teams yet to win a match this season and sit at bottom of the log. They hope to halt their win-less run against a side oozing in confidence after their 1-0 over champions Gor Mahia in their last match. Sharks are third with eight points and will be banking on KCB and Sofapaka to upset league toppers Mathare United and second-placed Western Stima—a result which will see them scale to the crest upon a successful outing in Machakos. Ulinzi Stars will be gunning for their second win of the season when they play Nzoia Sugar at Sudi Stadium. The Soldiers have had a start to forget, savouring victory once, sharing spoils twice and losing once—a result which has left them tenth on the log with five points. They hope to jump start their title chase against the millers who are 11th with five points. A rejuvenated Tusker will host Vihiga United at Ruaraka seeking their third win of the season while Vihiga will be hoping to soar three places high. Tusker sit fifth with seven points while Vihiga are eighth with five points. Third from bottom Zoo Kericho host Bandari at Kericho Green Stadium. Seventh placed Sony Sugar will host Kakamega Homeboyz at Awendo hoping to take their tally to ten while Homeboyz, who are sixth with similar gatherings will be out to bounce back to their winning ways after playing Nzoia Sugar to a 1-1 draw in their last match.