The Director of Criminal Investigations has summoned Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya for questioning over alleged inciteful remarks he made against a family in March last year. Also summoned is Sheywe MCA Job Mwamto, who, together with Oparanya, is accused of having incited residents to evict Salim Mohamed’s family from the town ‘to ensure residents’ safety’. They allegedly made the remarks when they visited the family of slain, nine-year-old Sharlene Mwanzia on March 20. They have been directed to appear before Kakamega detectives on January 18 — at 9am and 10am, respectively. DCI officer Erick Kisakwa approved the summonses. Mohamed told the police that Oparanya and Mwamto wanted them evicted from Kakamega. Residents later torched his house and other property because of their comments, he said. Mohamed has left the town. His son, Abdul Halig, was suspected of complicity in the kidnapping and killing of Mwanzia, in mid-March. He is still at large. Police have been investigating. Mwanzia was a Standard 3 pupil at St Joseph’s Academy in Kakamega town. She was reported missing from home on Scheme estate on March 10. Her body was discovered a week later in a water tank next to her home. “If we find him, we shall finish him. I want this family to leave. Police, you’re here and we want them out because residents are always complaining about the family for children’s killing every year,” Oparanya was quoted as saying. “In 2014, when we were here, we were told the same suspect was behind the killing of another child. I was told he had been arrested and taken to court.” On Friday, county attorney Moses Sande said he was not aware of the summons to Oparanya. “I spend the day out of the office. I will check and revert,” he said. A copy of the summons, however, bore stamps of the governor’s office, indicating receipt. “I’m making inquiries into an alleged offence of incitement to violence. I have reason to believe you, honourable Wycliffe Oparanya, are connected or have information that can assist me in my investigations of a criminal case, which was reported by one Salim Mohamed,” the summons dated January 10 said. Mwamto denied wrongdoing. He said the police should be looking for the murder suspect, instead of “engaging in a witch-hunt”. “The houses had been burnt by the time we went there. They should ask the complainant to produce his son to face charges, not only for kidnapping and killing Mwanzia, but also for other offences,” the MCA said.