The Kakamega government has denied that Boda boda riders operating around the County teaching and referral hospital sneak into the hospital and eat food meant for patients. County health executive Rachael Okumu yesterday said that riders operating near the hospital entrance were there purely for businesses and do not interfere with the facility in any way. “The reports doing rounds that the riders raid food for patients are meant to belittle them because the systems at the hospital cannot allow them to access the kitchen,” she said. Reports have been circulating on social media that the riders were scavenging on patients’ food at the referral facility. Okumu said that the riders who gain access to the facility were those ferrying patients and do not even enter the main remises. Speaking in her office on Thursday, Okumu also denied reports by a section of leaders that the county government had increased charges for services offered at the hospital. She said that the government had only tightened the loopholes that led to revenue leakages to enhance revenue collection to offer quality and sustainable services to the people. “From the time I came in as minister, we started strengthening the existing systems to be able to collect what we set to. What I can assure you is that the charges I found in pace is what we are still charging,” she said. She said that sealing the loopholes angered many individuals who benefited from the revenue leakages and have engaged in spreading propaganda. Hospital superintendent Dr Victor Zimbulu said that the only charges that were introduced are those for new services like renal, Ongology and ICU. Zimbulu defended the restrictions on entry to the facility saying they were meant to ensure protection of the patients and property. He said that the management decided to engage a professional security form after it became apparent that women relatives sneaked alcohol, bhang, cigarettes to patients in the hospital. “Some even came in with daggers posing real threat to both patients and staff,” he said. He denied that the hospital was detaining patients who are unable to pay their medical bills. He said that the hospital is owed over Sh 5m by patients who were unable to pay their bills and committed through promissory notes to do so once discharged. He said that the monthly revenue collection had increased from Sh 7,7m to Sh 15m between January 2018 and June. He said that over 30casualks were sacked at the hospital for colluding with other junior staff to extort money from unsuspecting patients or their relatives. The med sup said that the hospital restricted caretakers for patients to one after learning that some people relocated to the facility where they even engaged in sex resulting in pregnancies within the facility. Kakamega senator Cleophas Malala and Mumias East MP Ben Washiali had complained that the coast of treatment at the facility was prohibitive to the majority poor. They said that the county government errored in annexing the Kakamega county general hospital to the referral facility as the charges at the facility were beyond the reach of the common mwananchi.