Alego Usonga MP Samuel Atandi risks arrest for allegedly slapping a female government employee. Siaya county commissioner Michael Tiala said he will teach Atandi a lesson for attacking the government employee in office. “We have already forwarded the file to the Director of Public Prosecutions for the MP to be arrested on Monday,” the commissioner said. On Friday, Atandi stormed the Siaya TSC office, along with young men, and slapped human resource officer Modester Anyuor for refusing to give him her boss’s phone number. The MP yesterday did not deny nor confirm the allegations on the phone. He warned journalists against calling him and asking such questions. “Don’t ever call me for such stories. In fact, delete my number with immediate effect and don’t ever attend my press briefings,” Atandi warned before he hung up. Anyuor’s husband, Eric Yambo who narrated the ordeal to the Star, said Atandi stormed the TSC offices accompanied by some youths. They were looking for the TSC director. “When they were told that the director was not around, the MP became violent,” he said. Yambo said his wife was still in shock and could not talk to journalists. He said his wife entered her office and as she did not recognise him immediately, she asked the MP to introduce himself. The MP, Anyuor’s husband said, told her off and demanded to see the director. “When he was told that the boss was not around, he demanded a phone number and when she refused to give it to him, the MP slapped her,” Yambo said. After the assault, the youths who accompanied the MP also roughed her up, asking her why she cannot give the MP her boss’s phone number. Yambo said his wife was harassed, pushed to the wall and insulted with unprintable words, before her colleagues intervened. Yambo said the MP went to the extent of telling his wife she is not his type of “slay queen” to think that he was going to pamper her. Reacting to the incident, Tiala said he would not permit such “madness” from anyone, whatever their status. The commissioner said it is wrong for an MP to attack a civil servant in a government office for no apparent reason. Tiala assured all civil servants in the county of their protection against politicians and political attacks in their line of duty. “If we don’t protect our staff from this kind of behaviour, then our services will be undermined,” he said. This is not the first time the MP has been accused of attacking residents. Last year there was a list of 10 people who went round alleging they were “marked for beating” by the MP for opposing his leadership. They included the Siaya Township MCA. Two were beaten up but the MP distanced himself from the list and the attack.