A global human rights lobby has launched independent investigations into the alleged killing of Leeds University student Carilton Maina, 22, by the police. International Justice Mission is set to meet Maina's family on January 30 to record their account of the circumstances behind the student's death. Maina is said to have been killed by a police officer last December at Laini Saba in Kibera slums under the guise that he was part of "a notorious thug that has been terrorizing the residents of the area." A source at the agency told the Star that it "has formally taken up the case, pursuing it as a matter of extrajudicial killing." Last week, Maina's mother expressed disappointment at the slow pace of the investigations. “It is one month since my son was shot. Even though Ipoa took up the matter, I have not seen any progress in the investigations,” Josephine Wangare said. Read more: Slain university student’s mother calls for speedy probe IJM is renowned for investigating the circumstances surrounding the killing of an inmate detained at Ruaraka Police station by Nahashon Mutua who was the OCS of the area in 2013. In court, Mutua tried to frame another inmate for the killing. Together with Ipoa, the lobby later mounted a criminal case against the top cop which saw him convicted five years later. Ipoa's head of communication Denis Oketch told the Star that investigations into Maina’s killing cannot be hurried. “No case takes a day or two to be investigated because we have to gather information, talk to several people including the public and collaborate the allegations. That might take around three months,” Oketch said. The officer who killed Maina is alleged to have followed him to an alley after shooting him in his left ankle. Witnesses said that he cornered Maina between two stalls and shot him in the stomach, chest and face as the victim pleaded for his life. Maina had come home for the Christmas holidays. Ipoa later said it will recommend criminal or disciplinary proceedings against any officers proven to have shot the university student. See more: Arsenal to honour slain Leeds University student Carilton Maina before EPL match Click here for the latest political News