The National and Transport Authority has suspended night travel licences for some matatus over traffic violations during the Christmas and New Year celebrations. NTSA also recorded 3,146 deaths on the road as of December 30, compared to 2,875 who died by the same date in 2017. Survey results by the authority, 1,201 pedestrians lost their lives in the same period. Those affected by the month-long suspension are some vehicles belonging to Mbukinya, Ongata Rongai, Kenya Poa, Unified Poa and Nazigi saccos. Others are from Prestige, Nawasuko, Latema, Kibea Bureti, Lucky Baba Dogo and Marimba saccos. NTSA director general Francis Meja said a number of operators had been found to be in violation of provisions of NTSA regulations, despite an earlier warning. “Statistics indicate night travel poses a high risk, and the majority of the accidents occur during this period,” he said. Only operators who had met stringent requirements to travel at night were allowed to operate. Seven drivers have had their licences suspended for between one and two years for drink driving. NTSA, whose staff were helping traffic police in enhancing road safety during the festive period, had identified operators who hiked fares on different roads. The authority has said it appreciates the action by the Judiciary to suspend licenses of various drivers involved in drink driving countrywide. Read: NTSA to review PSV drivers age limit The drunk drivers will have to undergo refresher training and re-testing before their licences are restored. The cases arose from the government’s enforcement of Michuki rules, which started on November 12, 2018. The authority , Meja said, will continue intensifying efforts to remove from the roads drivers who fail to observe traffic laws by revoking their licenses. “Traffic crashes tend to increase during the festive season, the majority occurring mostly at hazardous zones or black spots, most of them attributable to human behaviour,” Meja said. “Drivers have a great responsibility in preventing road traffic crashes by observing basic traffic rules,” he said. The police were also conducting a crackdown to impound unregistered vehicles bearing plates inscribed as X-GK, X-KA, and X-Diplomatic. The authority had clarified that vehicles bearing such number plates are not registered and are therefore operating illegally. Click here for the latest political news