Second-placed Shabana will tomorrow welcome third-placed Wazito at Gusii Stadium as the Football Kenya Football (FKF) National Super League resumes after the festive season break. Wazito coach Mohammed Mchulla said his charges have forgotten their loss against log leaders Ushuru and are now focusing on Shabana. “We are going to Gusii for better results because we lost our last game. We have had good preparations since we resumed from our brief holiday,” Mchulla said. He said he has no injury concerns ahead of their game against the returnees. Shabana assistant coach Andrew Kanuli said they are ready for Wazito, adding that the Nairobi-based team are one of the favourites in the league. “It is a very important game for us but I can tell you it will not be easy. But I believe we are equal to the task. We have the quality to match them and maintain our impressive start of the season,” said Kanuli. Shabana have the meanest defence, having conceded one goal from a penalty while Wazito have conceded two. Next weekend, Shabana play log leaders Ushuru before taking on Eldoret Youth. “These three matches will determine whether we are contestants or participants in this league,” added Kanuli. Ushuru lead the log with 13 points same as Shabana but the tax men have a better goal difference. Wazito are third on 12 points. Log leaders Ushuru travel to Thika to face off with hosts Thika United in the second of a double header. In the first match, Bidco United host win-less Migori Youth. Coast Stima host Nairobi City Stars at Mbaraki grounds as Eldoret Youth entertain Kibera Black Stars at Sudi stadium. On Sunday, Nairobi Stima and Fortune Sacco will face off at Karuturi grounds. Camp Toyoyo host a double header with first game pitting Administration Youth against Green Commandos and Talanta battling Kenya Police in second match. Draw masters Kisumu All Stars seek their second win of the season when they welcome Kangemi All Stars at Moi Stadium in Kisumu while St Joseph’s Youth battle bottom of the table Modern Coast Rangers at Afraha Stadium in Nakuru.