Ukambani governors have ganged up against Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka with the launch of their People’s Empowerment Movement. Alfred Mutua (Machakos), Charity Ngilu (Kitui) and Kivutha Kibwana (Makueni) said the new movement will push the development agenda of the people of Ukambani. The county chiefs said they will soon unveil the programmes of the movement. “We have to change our past of poverty of leadership. As part of our working together, we the governors hope to reverse the apathy that has crept into the region,” Kibwana said in a statement. The governors accused Kalonzo of being responsible for the backwardness in Ukambani. “One day I will release a recording showing him asking MCAs to make the working environment for Ukambani governors very hard,” Mutua said. He spoke on NTV yesterday after the three governors met last Sunday. The new organisation will take on Musyoka’s Wiper as the battle for Ukambani supremacy intensifies. “We announce the formation of the People’s Empowerment Movement whose main agenda is to fight poverty, generate wealth and provide cohesion in the Ukambani region and the entire nation,” Mutua said. They said that it is vital that there is clarity on the Kamba community’s linkages with national and international networks. “We will continue working together for our people. We are committed and nothing will separate us because we have a clear development agenda for our people,” Ngilu said. She said the people of Ukambani have suffered for a long time due to poor leadership. The leaders promised to mobilise Ukambani to take a stronger part in national politics. “We need to move our people from hopelessness to hope as we galvanise our shared resources,” Kibwana said. However, Makueni MP Daniel Maanzo dismissed the leaders’ allegations that Kalonzo has not improved the lives of residents of Ukambani. “We have massive projects to bring in water and electricity and other important things started by Kalonzo when he was the VP. Some of these projects were started but stalled while others were completed,” Maanzo said.