Although Bushra Abubakar was confident she would do well in the KCSE examination, whatever happened, she had already achieved more than most girls in Garissa. Bushra, the top girl in Northeastern, scored 423 marks at Sunshine Academy. Firmly clenching her bags with both hands and big dreams in her heart, she arrived at Pangani Girls, wearing her buibui and accompanied by her father Ahmed Abubakar. This is the school of her dreams, in the city she only saw on television and had yearned for. In an area where marginalisation, inequalities and culture have conspired to deny people — especially women — education, Bushra’s exemplary performance was a shock to many. “I was happy with the marks but it didn’t surprise me. I have never scored anything below 400 and I have always been at the top of my class,” she told the Star. Many of the girls who started Standard 1 at the same time as Bushra dropped out of school and were married long ago. Some have never set foot back in school and many have never even seen one. Bushra recalls how recently on television she watched a girl her age escape from her suitors. She was seeking a place to stay as she pursued her education. “This is not new to me, I have heard so many such cases, but I am glad my parents supported me through my education,” she said. When her ailing father, the breadwinner, could no longer pay her school fees, the school administration allowed Bushra to continue without paying for the final two years. “Admission day was fast approaching and I had not found any sponsors, banks had made promises but none had acted. For the first time, I was scared that I would sit on my 423 marks in the house,” Bushra narrated. The eldest in a family of seven children said her mother helped her with house chores, which allowed her time to study, a luxury that many girls never got. It took the intervention of Mandera Governor Ali Roba who volunteered to pay Bushra’s school fees in full, to rekindle her dreams. “I am keen on supporting inclusive education of all our girls and this is personal support to help a child from a vulnerable background access education,” Roba said. PRACTICES WEIGH DOWN WOMEN According to the Kenya Bureau of Statistics 2018, the worst counties in access to primary education are Garissa ( 19.7 percent), Wajir ( 19.5 percent) and Turkana ( 14.5 percent). Her father Abubakar agreed that many of the practices in the Northeastern region are detrimental to women. “Female genital mutilation, early marriages and many other practices that affect girl child education. We respect our cultures but we are very keen on retrogressive practices,” Abubakar said. The share of residents with secondary education or higher in Nairobi ( 50.8 percent) is 15.4 times more than that of Turkana county ( 3.3 percent) and 2.2 times more than that of an average Kenyan.