Supreme Court judge Jackton Ojwang yesterday disagreed with the majority and supported an appellate decision allowing Muslim girls to wear hijab to non-Muslim school. He concurred with Court of Appeal judges who in 2016 ruled that allowing Muslim students to wear hijab does not amount to discrimination against other students. “The Appellate Court, by contrast, was of the view that the concepts of justice, fairness or reasonableness would not only permit, but in fact do require, differential treatment. Such, in my perception, is an eminently rational stand, and is for upholding,” Ojwang said. The appellate court had established that there was no factual or legal basis for the holding that allowing Muslim girls to wear the hijab favoured them and discriminated against non-Muslims, as the trial judge had ruled. “It is my standpoint that the scheme of jurisprudence outlined by the Appellate Court, on the relevant question, is appositely pragmatic and rational, and well reflects the desirable judicial stand,” Ojwang said. He pointed out that the court ought to strike the right balance amidst people holding different faiths. “It is my standpoint, in departure from the bench majority, that all the applicable terms of the Constitution and of the enacted law, do entail the finding – precisely in keeping with that of the Appellate Court – that a right balance amidst people holding different faiths, in the multi-cultural environment prevailing at the pertinent school, will by no means be jeopardised on account of the variation to the school dress-code. I would, therefore, have dismissed the appeal.” This is not the first time Justice Ojwang has held a dissenting opinion in a prominent case. He did so last year when the Supreme Court nullified the election of Uhuru Kenyatta as President. Judges of the Supreme Court of Kenya, led by Chief Justice David Maraga on 20th September 2017 delivered the full ruling on the presidential election petition filed by then Nasa leader Raila Odinga. The Supreme Court of Kenya became the first court in Africa’s history to declare the results of a presidential election invalid, null and void and ordering for a fresh election.Justices Ojwang and Njoki Ndung’u dissented. The hijba case goes back to June 22, 2014 when Isiolo deputy governor Mohamed Guleid requested that all Muslim girls be allowed to wear the hijab and white trousers to school. A week later, unknown persons brought hijabs and white trousers for the Muslim girls, who subsequently reported to the Methodist-sponsored school donning them. This conduct reportedly led to tension and disharmony.