Kitui governor Charity Ngilu yesterday accused MCAs of undermining her government because she had refused to approve their lavish and luxurious retreats. Ngilu said the MCAs had financially paralysed her administration by rejecting a supplementary budget presented to them last December because she had declined to take them for lavish and luxurious retreats to Mombasa. “I will not take the MCAs for lavish meeting in Mombasa come what may,” Ngilu said. She said MCAs had denied her administration money to mechanise agriculture and provide water to the people of Kitui. She was speaking at the Mwingi AIC township church during the installation of the Mwingi area AIC Bishop Nicodemus Kituo. The ceremony was conducted by the AIC Kenya presiding Bishop Silas Yego. The MCAs did not attend except  Mwingi township ward representative Mary Kanini and three others. The Kitui assembly, which has 54 MCAs, besides throwing out the supplementary budget citing corruption loopholes, impeached Ngilu’s finance executive Mary Nguli. Read: Kitui MCAs blame Ngilu after trip to Mombasa for nothing Ngilu told the Sunday worshipers who included Kitui senator Enoch Wambua and his predecessor David Musila that the Kitui MCAs are ignorant of the five point pre-election agenda she had for Kitui people. “When I ask for more money to do agriculture and water projects the MCAs do not understand because their leadership is wanting as they do not have any agenda to fulfill,” Ngilu said. She noted that the assembly was led by her longtime political rival George Ndotto as speaker. “I do not mind the dissolution of the current Kitui county government so that we would all go back to the electorate to seek fresh mandate,” the governor said. Musila called for the cooperation between the Kitui county executive and the MCAs in order to foster development. He cautioned that the current squabbling would ultimately be counterproductive. “If our elected leaders fail to deliver then in 2022 we will ask the voters to punish them by not re-electing them,” Musila said. Wambua promised that he will be more aggressive in oversighting the usage of public funds to curtail theft. “I promise you that there will soon be issues between me and the county government if they do not spend funds prudently,” Wambua said. Click here for
the latest political news