The Amani National Congress party is planning to take disciplinary action against two Kakamega MPs over coziness with Deputy President William Ruto. Kakamega branch officials yesterday said Justus Murunga (Matungu) and Titus Khamala (Lurambi) have violated the party constitution, regulations and the Political Parties Act. They said Murunga has publicly disowned the presidential candidature of party leader Musalia Mudavadi, while Khamala is mobilising support for a rival aspirant. Murunga was recently quoted dismissing Mudavadi’s candidature as a nullity. “Mudavadi cannot make it. He should instead join Ruto as his deputy (running mate),” Murunga said in December at a football event attended by Ruto. ANC Kakamega branch chairman Julius Arunga said the sentiment was demeaning and amounted to campaigning for a rival. “We’re contemplating disciplinary action not only against the two but several other leaders who have violated regulations and disrespected our party leader,” Arunga said. Arunga said they will meet today to discuss the conduct of the MPs. On Saturday, Murunga was heckled at the burial of Lugari MP Ayub Savula’s daughter when he tried to defend Luhya leaders leading delegations to Ruto’s home in Sugoi. Kakamega ANC youth leader Emmanuel Buchichi said Murunga was following the DP in the hope that he can be saved from “fraud cases” against him in court. CONTEMPTUOUS BETRAYAL Branch CEO Isaac Otiende said Khamala mobilised religious groups to meet Ruto at the MP’s home on December 31. The function came just days after the MP went to Mudavadi’s Mululu home to plead with his party boss not to listen to ‘propaganda’ being peddled against him. “He has attempted to justify his Sugoi forays on grounds of seeking development,” Otiende said. He dismissed the Kakamega Grassroots Pastors Fellowship as amorphous, saying it was created to pursue handouts. The group met Ruto at Khamala’s home and later addressed a press conference in which they asked Mudavadi to make friends with Ruto. Contacted yesterday, Mudavadi’s private secretary Kibisu Kabatesi said it would be the height of political dissent and doom if Khamala were to be distracted o by easy money from Ruto. “Khamala is my personal friend whom I don’t expect to behave so naively. I know Mudavadi has cautioned him that his continued association with Ruto will irreparably damage his grassroots support,” Kabatesi said. Mudavadi has spent a fortune propping Khamala up to finally become an MP, Kabatesi said. “It would be contemptuous betrayal to work against his party leader,” he said.