Murang’a Woman Representative Sabina Chege has urged the government to close refugee camps in Northeastern to stem terrorism. Chege said the camps act as hideouts for terrorists and are used to radicalise youths as refugees are harbored in the camps.They are also hideouts for other criminals, she said. The MP on Thursday said refugee camps such as Daadab, which hosts more than 200,000 refugees, provides a fertile ground for terror activities. The camps have outlived their purposes and should be closed, she said. “Our country has offered help to the victims of war for a long time but it is now costing us lives and peace. Maybe it is now time for them to seek help from other countries,” Chege said. The government should now consider changing its approach to refugees in order to safeguard the lives of its citizens, she said. “The refugees have proven to be bad neighbors whom we should disassociate with. It’s time for them to seek asylum elsewhere,” she said. She added, “The camps have many activities that are not known to the government and terror groups can easily hide and plan their attacks while radicalising youths.” Chege spoke a little more than a week after 21 people lost their lives in a terror attack at DusitD2 hotel in Nairobi. The MP called for caution on arming security guards, pointing out that guns should only be issued to people who are trained on how to use them. “We have to have a strict control on guns and should not allow them to be possessed by too many people as it could have other repercussions. I do not think it is necessary to arm security guards,” she said. Should the government find it necessary to arm them, Chege said, then rigorous vetting is required. The government should also ensure they return the guns after work shifts, she added. The MP spoke after issuing education bursaries of Sh.2.3 million at Kenol town. Since 2011 al Shabaab has lost territory in Somalia. Nevertheless, it continues to maintain attack capabilities and is intent on inflicting significant damage in Kenya and Somalia. Tana River Governor Dhadho Godhana also asked the government to repatriate all Somali refugees, terming them “a security threat”. The legislator last week said Somalia was peaceful and it was time for refugees to return and build their country. “Somalia has a governance system like Kenya, citizens are free to vie for elective positions. The refugees should return because they can’t run for election here,” Dhadho said. The governor said he has nothing against most refugees.