Olympic marathon champion and 2016 London marathon Jemima Sumgong’s husband, Noah Talam, has revealed that the marathoners career is officially over after she was slapped with an eight-year ban by the Athletes’ Integrity Unit yesterday. Sumgong was already inside the second year of a four-year ban delivered by the Anti-Doping Agency of Kenya for using a banned substance, EPO. The second, longer ban was effected after she was found guilty of ‘tampering’ an Anti-Doping Rule Violation which included failure to cooperate with the investigators and providing fraudulent documents such as medical reports. However, Talam indicated that they are ready to move on with life, now that the 33 year-old runner will be ineligible until 2027. “If that is what they (AIU) have decided, then I wish they can now leave us to live our life,” said Talam, who still believes there is a conspiracy behind her wife’s downfall. “I still believe this is witch hunt. There is a hand behind all these. Things started going wrong when a battery of foreign journalists started flocking our place after she won the Olympics.” “And although I have not talked to my wife, we will not appeal (at the Court of Arbitrations for Sports as per the IAAF regulations) since it is a very expensive affair.” “We had to start from zero since things do happen and you cannot be stuck at one place. We have actually realised that athletics was taking a lot of our time and now we can concentrate on our businesses. We still leave the house at 5:40am, the kids are still in school, even the various orphans that we have volunteered to support are still comfortable,” added Talam. The latest ban compounds the Olympic champion’s situation since, in addition to the previous ban, she was also dismissed from the Kenya Defence Forces, despite the promotion she got after her heroics at the 2016 London and Olympic marathons. Sumgong tested for EPO in 2017 and then tried to explain it away by saying she had suffered a ruptured ectopic pregnancy on the February 22-23, 2017 which had led to an injection and a blood transfusion at the Kenyatta National Hospital. Thereafter Sumgong, who had previously suffered an ectopic pregnancy in 2009, also provided anti-doping officials with five fabricated hospital documents to support her case. However, the Kenyan hospital confirmed she had not visited them on the said dates and that the documents were fake since they lacked a unique hospital number. The hospital authorities insisted that a serious problem as a ruptured ectopic pregnancy would have required a four-day stay at an acute gynecology ward which did not happen with Sumgong. Athletics Integrity Unit Chief Brett Clothier said: “We welcome the decision of the Disciplinary Tribunal. We hope that it sends a message to dopers that the AIU has strong investigative capabilities and does not tolerate false evidence in doping cases.” He also thanked the Anti Doping Agency of Kenya(ADAK) for their support. “We also want to underline the vital support of Anti doping in Kenya in pursuing this case. They are a valuable partner in the fight against doping in Kenya,” added Clothier.