The High Court in Nairobi will today hear an application by six Kenyans seeking to suspend an out-of-court settlement that the Kenya Power signed with Nairobi lawyer Apollo Mboya. The lawyer who together with the Electricity Consumer Society of Kenya had in January last year filed a class action suit against the power distributor over fraudulent billions and abuse of monopoly agreed to the matter out of court. The six petitioners led by Jerotich Seii however applied to court on December 6, 2018 seeking to suspend the settlement, urging that the deal did not sort out main issues raised in the public sponsored case. “In a heart shattering moment, and flagrant breach of trust bestowed upon him by the people of Kenya, the first petitioner chose to settle this petition by entering into a consent order dated October 23, 2018,” reads one of the claims filed by the six in December. They asked the court to suspend the consent orders in this petition pending the hearing and determination of the substantive issues raised in the petition. Lawyer Apollo Mboya had not responded to our inquiries about the case and subsequent deal with Kenya Power by the time of going to press. Speaking to the Star yesterday, Seii said lawyer Apollo Mboya breached public trust when he agreed to the deal in private without consultation. ‘’This was a public interest case. It was wrong for the lawyer who was acting on behalf of the public to agree to the deal in private. The out of court deal failed to address key issues raised by the public against Kenya Power,’’ she said. According to her, the deal failed to address how the powerman will compensate consumers for false and misleading representation in electricity tariffs and bills. Consumers had accused Kenya Power of inflating and backdating November and December 2017 bills to recover Sh10.1 billion fuel cost charge as had been indicated in the firm’s annual statement for the year ended June 2017. It had so far recovered Sh2 billion, leaving out Sh8.1 billion that was to be passed on to consumers in monthly invoices. She added Kenya Power is still abusing its monopoly through over pricing as well as subjecting consumers to third party vendors who charge high transaction fees. Other petitioners include Wanjeri Nderu, Eva Mutua, James Gitau, Fredrick Asira and Victor Otieno. Kenya Power agreed to stick to tariffs approved by the Energy Regulatory Commission and set up billing query centres countrywide. It also gave customers 30 days to raise billing complaints, promising not to disconnect supply to customers who raise issues regarding their bills within the period. The listed power distributor also agreed to pay suit costs for Mboya and the Electricity Consumers Society of Kenya.