For years, Nyali has been the home of the elite in Kenya. Some of the richest people in the country including Mombasa governor Hassan Joho, his Kilifi counterpart Amason Kingi and Tourism CS Najib Balala call the neighbourhood home. President Uhuru Kenyatta, Deputy President William Ruto and former Prime Minister Raila Odinga also own palatial residences here. It is, however, slowly losing its appeal after a spate of attacks on some residents. INSECURITY ON THE RISE In December 2016, Hamdan Bayusuf, 22, was attacked by six people armed with pangas as he responded to a distress call by his security guard. He was rushed to a Mombasa hospital and admitted to the facility’s ICU with serious head injuries. He was later flown to South Africa. On December 12, last year, former Kilifi deputy governor Kenneth Kamto was shot dead by yet unidentified people said to have been trailing him. They entered his home and shot him twice in the chest and made away with Sh6,000 and a mobile phone. Nyali MP Mohammed Ali said insecurity was spreading from Kisauni, a well known crime den, to his area and there was the risk of losing investors. OPPORTUNITY FOR OTHERS The insecurity in the once posh area has opened doors for expansion in other areas such as Shelly Beach located in Likoni subcounty and Kizingo in Mvita. Juma Mohammed, a Likoni lands agent said land rates have risen substantially compared to two years ago. “A quarter of an acre along Shelly Beach used to be Sh400,000 but now, it is nothing less than Sh1 million,” Juma said. This has been highly contributed to by the efforts of the Mombasa tourism department to revive hotels such as Shelly Beach along the beach. The hotels were closed down during the 1994 Kaya Bombo clashes which were aimed at sending away non-coastal residents. Likoni MP Mishi Mboko lives in this area while former Vice President Moody Awori is said to be the owner of the expansive Furaha Gardens, luxurious apartments located two minutes from the beach. Kizingo has been rated as the most expensive estate in Mombasa. This is because of its serene environment as well as its close proximity to the CBD and crucial amenities such as hospitals, schools and supermarkets. Kizingo has recently seen the rise of high-end apartments with well manicured lawns. Investors buy homes as there are no rental apartments. GOLDMINE Mwendwa Thuranira of Myspace Properties rates Kizingo as the most pricy estate in the county. A three-bedroom house goes for upwards of Sh16 million which is comparatively high compared to Nyali, he said. “This is the only area that land is being measured per square metre and not acres. However, if you are lucky, you can get a quarter acre at Sh100 million whereas a similar piece in Nyali goes for approximately Sh35 million,” he said. An eighth of an acre in Kizingo sells at Sh60 million. Thuranira, who is an expert in real estate, said the proximity of the estate to the CBD is the major contributor to the high prices. “In Kizingo, your security is guaranteed because of all the government buildings such as the State House, police headquarters, the AP and GSU staff quarters allocated in this area,” he added. Click here for the latest political news