The right to freedom of religion
is enshrined in Article 32 of the Constitution: Everyone has the right to
freedom of conscience, religion, thought, belief and opinion. Similarly, this right is also
protected in numerous international and regional instruments such as the
African Charter of Human and Peoples Rights and the Universal Declaration of
Human Rights. The Constitution further states
that there must be no state religion in Kenya (Article 8). This means there must
no official state religion: Kenya is not and cannot be like the UK, which has
an “established church”, or those countries that say their official religion is
Buddhism (Cambodia) or Islam (Pakistan).  WHAT
DOES IT MEAN? I would argue that it necessarily
also implies state religious neutrality. Such neutrality can take various
forms. Some focus on tolerance or accommodation of religious views, even in the
public sphere, through the ‘concept of
good disagreement’ to use an expression favoured by the Archbishop of
Canterbury, Justin Welby. Other states profess to be
neutral in the form of equidistance – the stress being on the distance:  There is a ‘wall’ between the State and religion keeping everyone’s religious
practices confined to the private sphere. In the US, many cases hold that this
is what their Constitution means by prohibiting “establishment of religion”.
However, that wall is not always impermeable. In 1984, the Supreme Court held
that putting a Christ’s nativity scene in a seasonal display in a public park
was not unconstitutional. It was not a step towards an official religion. The
five to four split in the court shows the difficulty and sensitivity of the
issue. Here, the Constitution does not
ignore religion: Look at the Kadhi’s Courts provision, the Preamble (“God Bless
Kenya!”) and Article 32 itself. We cannot say there is a wall between the State
and anything religious. Kenya could be described as
demonstrating a level of religious pluralism.  In the Mohamed Fugicha Case, the Court of
Appeal allowed students to wear hijab as an addition to their school uniform. To
deny them this did amount to discrimination. The court did not accept the rigid
school uniform based arguments accepted in an earlier case involving Kenya High
School. It ruled that a reasonable adjustment to school uniform rules should be
agreed, allowing expression of religion, and fitting in with the school uniform
colour scheme. Nonetheless, there is a level of
irony in that the people of Kenya (or their officials) are not fully embracing
of all beliefs, as compared, perhaps, to the courts. In 2016, the Registrar of
Societies tried to suspend the registration of the Atheists Society of Kenya. The
reasons given were that it would affect the peace and good order in the country,
ignoring freedom from religion. The
High Court, however, held that the suspension was invalid. It did this on the
basis that the Registrar had not given proper notice and a chance for the
Atheists to put their own case). So there had been a breach of Article 47 on
fair administrative action. The court did not have to decide if Article 32 was
violated. To limit any rights, including
under Article 32, Article 24 must be applied and the question would be whether limiting
the right has any legitimate aim and, if so, whether achieving the aim needed
refusal of their registration. Realistically, public spaces in
Kenya are time and time again infected with religious affiliations and
expressions such as preaching in public spaces, beginning national ceremonies
with prayer and the
National Anthem begins
with a declaration of God as the Creator of all. Prayers are sometimes not limited to
one religion; they may include Muslim and even Hindu prayers, but this is not
universally the case. Neutrality may be aimed at, but is often not achieved. Section 78 of the 1969
Constitution protected each individual’s “freedom of thought and of religion,
freedom to change his religion or belief, and freedom, either alone or in
community with others, and both in public and in private, to manifest or
propagate his religion or belief in worship, teaching, practice and observance.” The Section also included clauses
on oath swearing, religious education and specifically provided for limitation
in the interest of defence, public safety, public order, public morality or
public health (the style of the old constitution, which seemed to place more
emphasis on limitations on rights than on the rights themselves). The 2010 Constitution increased diversity
in the public sphere, as in giving the Kadhis’ Courts jurisdiction throughout Kenya
rather than only within the former Protectorate (coastal strip) as in the previous
Constitution. This also recognised the reality that Muslims are found in any
county, and treats them all equally. It overruled a rather peculiar case
holding, in May 2010, that Kadhi’s courts were an unconstitutional part of the
old constitution.  DILEMMA FOR COURTS Nonetheless, even in legal
pluralism, states’ complete freedom of religious expression cannot be truly
realised. One Garreth Prince, a Rastafarian, admittedly partook of cannabis as
a form of religious expression. He failed to convince the South African
Constitutional Court, the African Commission of Human and Peoples Rights, or the
UN Human Rights Committee that prohibiting its use, an admitted violation of
his religious freedom, was unjustified. The Commission held that the
right to practice one’s culture does not grant “unfettered power to violate the
norms that keep the whole nation together”. The dilemma is shown by Justice
Sach’s dissent in the court. He said allowing use of cannabis as “a core
sacramental aspect of Rastafari belief and practice” could be done without
unduly harming the broader campaign against harmful drugs. States that are equidistant from
any and all religions have included France and Turkey. Key examples are cases where
applicants claimed that their right to freedom of expression of religion was
limited by not being allowed to wear a hijab in a public school or university.
The European Court of Human Rights has several times ruled that the right may
be limited to protect the rights and interests of others, or safety of the
individual. The European Court may seem to be
more towards the rigid separation end of the continuum- claiming that religious
manifestation ought to be left to the private sphere. However, in the European
(and African) international institutions, serving many nations, the idea of a
“margin of appreciation”  — allowing some
space for countries to decide limitations on rights in the light of their own
history, culture and traditions. Secularism is part of the history
of France and Turkey, the former being more secular as seen from the recent ban
on burkinis, or any swimwear that does not uphold the values of secularism in
certain municipalities. When an individual country, such
as Kenya, chooses to adopt a formulation of rights, its courts decide how it will
be interpreted.  No “margin of
appreciation” is appropriate, though respect for the views of parliament and
government is important.  WHEN
IS NEUTRALITY POSSIBLE? Paradoxically, states with an
established religion may also claim to be neutral. In England, with its
established religion, religious defamation laws were interpreted to protect only
Christianity, even in the 20th Century. But this was largely to
avoid extending what the courts considered an anomaly and those laws were
abolished in 2008. In reality, England is a very
secular country. On the other hand, violations of
Article 18 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in states such as Saudi
Arabia and Pakistan prove clearly that neutrality seems impossible in countries
that are not secular. In the words of the Archbishop of
Canterbury, it is impossible to accommodate everyone’s religious beliefs and
practices. Neutrality will, therefore, forever remain a theoretical concept. After
the promulgation of the 2010 Constitution, we are a step closer to true
neutrality but have not yet reached absolute neutrality or absolute religious
pluralism. The courts, however, have taken us closer towards this realisation.