Controversial Jubilee Party vice chairman David Murathe quit yesterday as the party descended into chaos. Murathe, viewed as President Kenyatta's mouthpiece, said his position was no longer tenable. He dismissed suggestions that his resignation was as a result of pressure from Kenyatta. "My position as the Jubilee vice chairman is no longer tenable. There is no way I am going to sit in NEC with a deputy party leader I have taken to court," Murathe said. "There was absolutely no pressure, but there was consultation within the party," he added. But even as he quit, he told reporters DP Ruto was unfit to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2022 after serving as the country's second in command for two consecutive terms. Read: Murathe quits Jubilee party, maintains Ruto not fit for president He maintained Ruto and Kenyatta should retire together because they were elected as a unit. "I am going to court to seek advisory opinion. We will soon start rolling a movement which will carry our message." Murathe alleged Ruto's presidency would make a large swathe of Kenyans into panic because they are scared of his past. "Kenyans are saying if he behaves this way when he is number two, what will he do when is number one? There has been a lot of corruption allegation and people from his backyard are crying foul over maize." The Jubilee top man said he might dump JP and team up with like-minded political players to form a major coalition which will form an inclusive government in 2022. "If a new coalition comes we are free." Read: Ignore busybodies, Murkomen tells DP Ruto on State House race Murathe was speaking on a day a section of Jubilee leaders launched a scathing attack against his remarks on Saturday that he would stop Ruto from running for President. Six Jubilee lawmakers led by senate majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen hit at the Jubilee boss terming him a political broker and busybody. But speaking from his Garden Estate home in Nairobi, Murathe insisted he will proceed to the apex court to seek advisory opinion on whether a DP having served for 10 years can still run in 2022. Murathe also said there was no binding memorandum of understanding between Uhuru and Ruto compelling Uhuru to supports his deputy after serving his two terms. Speaking after attending a church service at Riruta estate in Nairobi's Dagoretti South constituency, Murkomen alluded to an MOU between Uhuru and Ruto. "If it is true as they allege that that there was an MoU of President to support DP then I challenge them to make such document public," Murathe said. Read: Call Jubilee elections to remove Murathe, Tuju - Sudi tells Uhuru Click here for the latest political news