Starting today, there will be significant change in the taxation of small enterprises and the informal sector. In his budget speech, the Finance CS sought to replace the current turnover tax (TOT) with a presumptive tax on small enterprises. TOT was introduced in 2008 as a simplified taxation method targeting the informal sector. Business enterprises with an annual turnover of less than Sh5 million are required to account for TOT at a rate of three per cent of the gross turnover for each quarter of the year. Unlike in the developed countries where the formal sector contributes a bigger share of the GDP as well as job creation, the case is quite the opposite in the developing world. A number of studies conducted over the years indicate that the informal sector has been growing rapidly in many developing countries, including Kenya, hence commanding a substantial share in the GDP. Consequently, the sector has continued to create more jobs than the formal sector. Despite this exponential growth, revenue collection from the informal sector has been on a decline in many countries. Experts have attributed this to lack of formal and well defined structures within the sector. In Kenya, for instance, turnover tax was introduced in 2008 to bring the players in this sector within the tax bracket but the revenue collected has not been a reflection of this rapid growth. The introduction of the presumptive tax is therefore intended to bring more of informal sector into the tax bracket. It will be pegged on business permits and trading fees at a rate of 15 per cent of the business permit or trading fee. This means that a trader whose business permit fee is, for example, Sh10,000, will pay a presumptive tax of Sh1,500 only. Apart from bringing more industry players on board, the presumptive tax is a more effective and efficient way of collection of tax from this category of taxpayers since it will involve collection from a centralised point at the time of issuance of county trading licences or permits. Further, unlike TOT which was accounted for after every four months, presumptive tax is a once-a-year affair that saves the traders the hustle of doing tax returns every four months. This means that taxpayers will have more time to concentrate on their businesses. With close collaboration among the Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA), the National Treasury and county governments, implementation of the presumptive tax will not only be successful but will also propel the country’s development agenda to greater heights through generation of more revenue. As the country focuses on implementation of the Big Four agenda spearheaded by President Uhuru Kenyatta, the expected revenue proceeds from the presumptive tax will significantly contribute to financing government projects under the agenda. The operationalisation of this tax will enhance the cooperation between KRA and county governments, with the latter expected to learn from best revenue collection measures developed over a long period of reforms. Introduction of this tax is also a big win for the county governments as they will now be in a closer working relation with KRA, a seasoned revenue collector. The underlying advantage in this working relationship is a potential boost in revenue collection for county governments from lessons to be learnt. In order to ensure smooth implementation, the authority has already commenced consultation with the relevant stakeholders including the Council of Governors, respective county governments and relevant representative organisations. Acting Commissioner for Domestic Taxes, KRA 