Education CS Amina Mohamed has appointed the selection panel that will recommend and interview nominees to the Technical and Vocational Education Training Funding Board. The TVET Fund was established to source and disburse funds to technical and vocational education institutions. The government and donors are the main financiers. The board will also advise the government on the remuneration of academic staff in TVET institutions and establish the maximum differentiated unit cost for the programmes offered in the institutions. All recommendations will be made after consultations with the institutions. Read: Pay technical staff better to make TVETs attractive, Ruto tells employers Amina said the selection panel will be chaired by Hannington Gaya, the former chairman of the Media Owners Association. Other panellists include Joan Machayo, representing the Public Service Commission, Alice Mutai representing the Kenya Engineering Technology Registration Board, Mutheu Kasanga representing Kenya Private Sector Alliance, and Patrick Obath, representing Federation of Kenya Employers. “We expect the selection panel to expeditiously undertake its task as outlined in the TVET Act, 2013,” Amina said on Thursday. The panel will submit three names for the chairperson’s post and nine names for board members. Amina will select one name as chairman and six board members. The PSs in the ministries of Education and Finance responsible for TVET education will also sit on the nine-member board. The board will disburse funds on the basis of respective institution's output, efficiency and role in areas prioritised by the government. The government has prioritised TVET training purposely to churn out enough skilled labour to push the Big Four agenda, particularly manufacturing. Student population in TVET institutions currently stands at 162,000 up from 96,000 recorded in May last year. Treasury tripled financing for TVET institutions in the 2018-19 budget to Sh16 billion up from Sh6 billion allocated in the previous budget. Read: TVETs allocated Sh16bn to drive Big Four agenda Click here for the latest political news