Moi University has partnered with Webuye sub county referral hospital in Bungoma County to open Moi Webuye partnership for education academic research laboratory. The laboratory that was opened on Wednesday by Bungoma governor Wycliffe Wangamati was funded by Duke global health institute at a tune of ten million. Director of Duke global health institute Christopher Plowe said that the opening of the facility marks an exciting new phase in their partnership with Moi University and Webuye sub county hospital. He said the partnership will enable them work together more effectively in pursuit of their shared ambition to achieve better health outcomes for residents. ‘We expect the laboratory will create new opportunities for the talented and dedicated workers from each of our institutions to innovate and share ideas as we work together to advance training of health professionals, pursue critical research questions, and built capacity for improved care,’ he said. ‘I envision the laboratory as a hub of activity where people will come to learn share and seek solutions to problems,’ he said. Plowe noted that the laboratory will aide clinicians in mastering new tools and skills that help them diagnosis and treat diseases ‘It will also support and enhance the important research being undertaken at Webuye on interventions for HIV, Hypertension, diabetes, malaria, and childhood fevers. Professor Isack Sanga the vice chancellor of Moi University said that the laboratory will offer an external quality assurance program which will have a significant impact on diagnostic accuracy within the county hospital lab oratory and other labs. He said that in line with the president big four agenda development the university has realigned its activities towards health care by the launch of the laboratory ‘This laboratory will serve as a training and research resource centre for our students from the school of medicine and school of public health,’ he said. He said that after the launch of the laboratory the university anticipates to increase areas of collaboration with the county, carry out joint research to generate locally relevant best practices, expand the training opportunities for the university, telemedicine support in areas such as cancer care and explore new innovations in health care delivery. Bungoma governor Wycliffe Wangamati said that the county will continue to partner with Moi university for the betterment of the residents. He said that his regime will this financial year focus more on health issues. Present at the launch was the webuye hospital medical sup kisaka, Bungoma health CEC Antony Walela, Bungoma health chief officer Patrick wandilli, culture CEC Everline Kakai and a section of county MCAs.        