The GSU officer who died in the DusitD2 terror attack was on Saturday buried at his parents' home at Kimala village in Taveta complete with a 21-gun salute. Thousands of mourners, including senior government officials, thronged the remote village to bid farewell to 27-year old Japhet Nduguja Nuru who many eulogised as a devoted patriot. Nuru succumbed to injuries after he was hit by a terrorist's bullet during a rescue mission at the hotel complex situated on 14 Riverside Drive, Westlands, Nairobi. He was to celebrate his 28th birthday on May 22. On January 15, six terrorists stormed the complex and started shooting indiscriminately, killing 21 people, including Nuru. Read: 2 Dusit killers were from Kiambu, Nyeri According to family members, Nuru was due to return home in February for his annual leave before tragedy struck. The young officer had informed his parents of his plans to build a house within the family compound. “His father told us that Nuru had already bought some building material and wanted to put up a house,” Taveta MP Naomi Shaban told the mourners. Matiangi said President Uhuru Kenyatta directed that a house should be put up in honour of the fallen hero. A three-bedroomed house has been built at the home. It was built by the Kenya Prison Services. “After all this, I will sit down with you and family to see to it that all the projects that Japheth was working on are finalised,” Matiang’i told the deceased's father mzee Wilfred Nuru. The CS delivered the president's message of condolence in which he affirmed his commitment to help the family. Matiang’i reiterated government’s stance that it will do
everything within its power to pursue the financiers and planners of the
attack. He said ten suspects have so far been arrested. “I assure you today that we will pursue all those involved
in this heinous act. You can’t shed the blood of Kenyans and think you will
hide,” Matiang’i said. Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinett said they will
not be threatened into submission by any form criminal attack by terrorists. “If terrorists think they have threatened us into
submission, they have failed. We will remain resolute, firm and with that
single-minded determination to fight terrorism and any other form of crime that
is a threat to the lives of our people.” ANC Party Leader Musalia Mudavadi, who said his son was a
survivor of the attack, said Kenyans should embrace the spirit of Nyumba Kumi for
timely identification of suspicious strangers. “These police officers are our brothers and sisters, they
are not our enemies. We should therefore report to them everything suspicious.  The Bible says love your neighbour, but I say
know your neighbour even if you don’t love them,” Mudavadi said. Nuru, who holds a Diploma in Supplies and Management from the Kenya Coast Polytechnic (formerly Mombasa Technical Training Institute), was eulogised as a humble man. He is from a family of eight children. His father and mother Lydia Lengaki said they had lost a young man who was also planning on getting married. Other leaders who attended the burial include ICT CS Joe Mucheru, Taita Taveta Governor Granton Samboja, ANC Party leader Musalia Mudavadi, MPs Alfred Agoi (Sabatia), Andrew Mwadime (Mwatate) and Jones Mlolwa (Voi). Also in attendance was Taita Taveta Deputy Governor Majala Mlaghui, Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet, Taita Taveta Women representative Lydia Haika, Taita Taveta Jones Mwaruma and others. Read also: I saw suspicious people at DusitD2 days before attack - Waiguru More: ATPU probe reveals network, financiers behind Dusit attack Click here for the latest political news