It was a relatively peaceful 2018 for the business and work environment as Kenyans settled back after the dramatic 2017 electioneering year. In the preceding year, workers across most sectors downed their tools as they agitated for better working conditions, or protested Collective Bargaining Agreements that remained unmet by employers. Other than threats to go to the streets, not many strikes were recorded last year, bringing much needed relief for both employers and workers. Unrest in the public transport sector marked part of 2017, with drivers who operate online taxi services the heavy casualties. In July, a weeklong strike by drivers offering Uber, Taxify, Little and other online app services saw the signing of an agreement between the government, driver partners and app companies on terms of business engagement. Taxify received most reports for poor client experiences after customer complaints on various issues ranging from overcharging of fares, drivers stealing from customers, sexual assault allegations and poor services. Riders complained mainly on social media platforms prompting the company’s country manager Alex Mwaura to issue a response. “Our customer support team has since contacted the rider and the reported driver who has since been deactivated from the platform to leave room for investigation,” he said. The online cab business experienced sweeping changes that saw many drivers left jobless as low earnings prompted many to look for other means of livelihood. The business also fought insecurity with at least 20 drivers losing their lives either through accidents or robbery attempts. With no employer-employee relationship, the business has few engagements that give drivers a sense of belonging, leaving a loophole for mischief on a number of the apps. Matatu transport was interrupted for weeks in November when the government reinforced the Michuki transport rules. The Federation of Kenya Employers report released in November explored wide ranging issues in the job market. For instance, it indicated that managerial jobs were the least sought in the year, while accounting jobs were most demanded in all sectors. While employers are mostly offering jobs to fresh recruits, it can take upto a year to retrain the rookie employee to deliver required standards. This is mostly because tertiary learning has been theory-based while the workplace requires practical application efforts. Some of the workers may need further specialized training while lack of exposure to the job market is an impediment to many fresh recruits. Economic Outlook 2018 showed that the electioneering year created only 800,000 jobs in an economy that grew 4.8 per cent. World Economic Forum findings released earlier in the year showed the economy creates less than 200,000 formal jobs annually compared to over half a million job seekers who enter the market. As a result, unemployment in the country is a huge challenge with nearly 40 per cent of qualified Kenyans remaining jobless. The manufacturing sector enjoyed progress, with the big four agenda discussions on manufacturing recording more engagements in the industry. “The formation of the multi-agency taskforce has seen the fight against illicit trade become so successful that some of the sectors including food, beverages and electrical sub-sectors are registering an increased market share,” said CEO of KAM Phylis Wakiaga. She said among key developments in the manufacturing sector is the ratification of the Africa Continental Trade Area which will give an increased market share for Kenyan products in the continent. Another is the development of the National Export Development and Promotion Strategy which seeks to ensure that Kenyan products are competing on a global platform. Slow clearance of raw materials from Mombasa Port, a disconnect between agencies mandated to clear the goods,led to lengthened and duplicated procedures, and cumbersome administration processes.