Mathare United have an opportunity to reclaim top spot when they take on Kakamega Homeboyz tomorrow. Francis Kimanzi’s charges saw themselves relinquish the summit to Bandari but they will be confident of getting the results they need against a Homeboyz side that is wallowing down in 11th position with eight points from seven matches. The 2008 champions saw off Tusker last time out, a result that left defender Johnstone Omurwa confident that they can finally lay down a true challenge for the top flight title that has been elusive since their triumph a decade ago. “I believe this season will be different. Last year at a similar stage, we had conceded more than four goals. This season we have only conceded four of which two are penalties,” he said. Omurwa added: “We are doing better defensively and that’s a big motivation to the forwards that as long as they score, we will continue winning matches. If we continue like this, then we can dream of the title,” added the Kenya Under-23 international. Up-front is where the Slum Boys pack a deadly punch with Cliff Nyakenya and Clifford Alwanga partnership from last season continuing to blossom and with the boots of Kevin Kimani supplying them, chances are likely to be a dime a dozen against a side that has conceded seven goals and are win-less in their last five outings. After parting ways with their recently appointed coach Melis Medo, Sofapaka hope former player John Baraza provides the much needed Midas touch like he did from mid-way last year and help revive their hopes of fighting for the championship. Medo resigned last week after failing to live up to the promise of making Sofapaka real title challengers as they failed to win any of his last five matches in charge. “John Baraza will take charge of the team on interim basis, pending a decision on whether or not we will appoint a new coach. We will make that announcement when the time is right,” Sofapaka president Elly Kalekwa said while accepting the Americans resignation. Baraza’s first match in charge will be the home clash against a Sony side that has been blowing hot and cold, winning three successive matches following that up swiftly with back-to-back losses including the home defeat to Ulinzi Stars last time out. The soldiers themselves will be in action against Tusker tomorrow.