The Treasury has yet to release Sh5 billion required to buy two million bags of maize from farmers. Treasury CS Henry Rotich yesterday said they are still resolving issues involving the 2017 payment before releasing more cash to the Strategic Food Reserve. “The SFR has not exhausted all the money given by the Treasury and they should use it to buy maize from farmers. We’ll come in to pay the shortfall. We will release the Sh5 billion as soon as we work out the issues,” he said. Strategic Food Reserve chairman Noah Wekesa yesterday said they will open up the National Cereals and Produce Board depots when they receive the cash. “We intend to buy two million bags of maize from farmers for Sh2,300. This has not changed. If you play around and increase the maize price, farmers will suffer because the commodity in the local market is selling at a low of Sh1,400. We believe Sh2,300 will stabilise prices in the market,” he said. Last November, the Cabinet approved purchase of two million bags of maize from farmers at Sh2,300 for a 90kg bag. The decision was strongly opposed by farmers and leaders from the North Rift. They demanded Sh3,200. Yesterday, Kenya Farmers Association director Kipkorir Menjo urged the Agriculture ministry to swiftly open up depots to enable farmers to sell their produce in readiness for the long-rains planting season. “We’ve started the year with a crisis. Farmers have a lot of maize in their stores but lack money to pay school fees for their children. Many of them will now sell their produce at throwaway prices to middlemen, who’ve now thronged parts of North Rift to buy cheap maize,” he said. On Monday, millers who had leased the NCPB stores protested a one-month notice to clear out issued by the government. The aim is to create space for the maize to be purchased from farmers. The millers want more time to find alternative storage. They have varying expiry dates. But Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri directed the NCPB to repossess the stores once the notice expires — the majority of them at the end of this month. Meanwhile, the task force on the maize crisis is meeting with industry players, governors from the maize growing regions and state officials to find a way forward. It started on Monday in Naivasha and will end on Sunday. Their focus is maize prices, cost of production, storage, pests and diseases and curbing unscrupulous traders. The meeting will be looking at short-term, medium-term and long-term solutions to the crisis. Participants include state-run research and seed production agencies, and transporters.