Blood stains found in the bedroom of a teacher who died in Eldoret caused her family to demand that her body be exhumed for fresh investigations into what killed her. Edwin Oginda who is a son to the deceased, told the High Court that he doubts the results of the postmortem done on the body of his mother at Moi Referral Hospital before she was buried. “The blood stains found in her bedroom caused suspicion and that is why we need to have the body exhumed for a second autopsy to establish the actual cause of death,” Edwin said. But his father Elijah Oginda has differed with other family members insisting that the body of his wife Veronica Kemunto should not be exhumed because he was satisfied with the results of the first postmortem. According to a postmortem done by a Dr William Nalianya at the referral hospital, the deceased succumbed to severe cardiac arrest. Oginda says he was satisfied with the results and that his wife died in hospital and not at the house. Oginda and his son Edwin were testifying before Justice Hellen Omondi who is hearing an appeal by Oginda opposing the exhumation of the body. The order to exhume the body was issued by Eldoret Principal Magistrate Naomi Wairimu on January 10, following a case which was first filed by the office of the Director of Criminal Investigation (DCI) and Truphena Osinde who is sister to the deceased. The DCI through a report presented in court has supported demands to exhume the body so that a fresh autopsy is done in the presence of all parties. The family of the woman who was buried a month go will know the decision of the High Court on February 7. Through her lawyer Morris Kimuli, Osinde told the court that her family highly doubt prior postmortem report produced in court. Elijah Oginda the husband to the deceased is represented by his lawyer Dennis Magare. He refuted claims that his wife died at home as alleged by respondents, he told the court that the deceased died in an Eldoret hospital. Oginda has insisted that exhuming the body of his wife is unwarranted and unnecessary. The deceased who was a teacher at Kandie Primary school in Eldoret passed on December 11, 2018 and she was laid to rest on December 21, within Eldoret town.