United States International University rookie Charles Kuka is among six players called up to the Kenya Sevens side as coach Paul Murunga looks to fill voids left by experienced quartet currently engaged in a contractual impasse with the Kenya Rugby Union. Kenya Simbas duo of William Reeves (Quins) and Jacob Ojee (KCB) were given the nod alongside Peter Kilonzo (KCB), Mwamba’s Mike Agevi and Homeboyz’ Bush Mwale. The new call-ups begun training with the rest of the squad on Monday in preparation for the world series legs in Hamilton and Sydney later this month. Former skipper Andrew Amonde, Collins Injera, Sammy Oliech and Willy Ambaka have stayed away from training as they seek better remuneration from the union. The side faces a bleak future and rank 14th on the standings with a paltry four points from the opening two legs as the threat of relegation looms large. Murunga said the absence of the experienced quartet have left him in a tough situation, which has forced him to turn to the sextet. “As a technical bench, we were left with no other option but to call upon the players to train and see what they can give us in terms of skills and experience,” said Murunga. He said the six will be assessed between now and next week and a decision made on whether they will be handed contracts for the duration of the season. “We must assess all of them and see where they fit with the rest of the training squad,” added Murunga. However, he remained adamant that the senior pros can’t be included in the upcoming assignments if they continue to give training sessions a wide berth. “I pick players who have trained and it’s too late for them. Ideally, they should have been back by mid December to prepare for our next tournaments,” noted Murunga. He also remained optimistic that the team will not be relegated from the World Sevens Series despite their shambolic performance in the opening two legs, coupled with the current impasse over player renumeration. “I am confident we will survive. The boys are resilient and confident and have learnt from the two opening legs. We hope to improve as the season continues,” added Murunga, who is expected to name his 12-man traveling squad next week before their departure to New Zealand on January 19.