The government has announced that Nairobi will be car-free on Wednesdays and Saturdays starting February 1. Transport PS Paul Maringa on Monday said there will be dedicated parking in Uhuru Park and Railways as no car will be allowed within the CBD during these two days. Maringa said during the set days, hawkers will be allowed to sell their wares. The PS said this will generate Sh39.5 million daily revenue to the government from over 100,000 hawkers. Maringa said the move which is a pilot program, will employ many, generating Sh 3.8 billion annually. "The pilot stage is starting off with Moi Avenue, Harambee Avenue, Taifa Road, City hall and Mama Ngina Street," Maringa said. He said the exercise will be fully done in Kenyatta Avenue, University way, Moi Avenue and Haile Selassie, before going to Westlands. The PS said they have also explored staggering working hours for city residents. Over 5,000 stalls will be erected during the pilot program at CBD. Transport CS James Macharia at the same time announced the much awaited Bus Rapid Transport (BRT) system will begin next month. He said the first batch of 64 BRT buses is ready for shipping from South Africa. Read: Matatu owners ask Uhuru to halt BRT plan The buses will have detailed safety designs that the CS said won't be compromised. Macharia said the private sector will be behind the day to day operations of BRT. However, the government will provide policy direction. The CS said the move is part of a wider plan to de-congest the city in order to attract investors. "The BRT system will be run in collaboration with the private sector. The BRT buses will be owned and managed by a Special Purpose Vehicles in which private PSV operators will be shareholders," Macharia said. Read also: Isuzu unveils BRT buses, matatu operators welcome move Macharia also announced the procurement of 11 diesel modified units of trains that will be increased to 20. He said a multi-sectoral team had jetted out of the country to Spain to negotiate the diesel modified units. Counties under the Nairobi Metropolitan Area Transport Authority (Namata) such as Kiambu, Kajiado, Machakos and Murang'a will also be roped in in government's latest bid of de-congestion. See more: Rapid transit will cost Sh100bn, take fifteen years to complete Click here for the latest political news  