Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui has sent top county officials on compulsory leave over recruitment malpractices. Kinyanjui sent two top officials and three members of the County Public Service Board for 45 days of compulsory leave, pending investigation. In a letter dated January 15, the governor states that the board defied instructions from the county to stop recruitment due to the findings of a staff audit report. “The recruitment is likely to jeopardise recommendations of the staff audit report and expose the county government to litigation and a bloated workforce. The county shall not be bound by any appointments ensuing from the illegal recruitment,’ he stated. The governor sent home the board chairman, Secretary and three other members. The suspension is seen as a move to change the current state of affairs.Earlier on, Kinyanjui had pointed out that his office was aware of an erratic hiring of staff that had been carried out in the last few months by the current board. A biometric staff audit was done in May last year and its findings released in August. It revealed that the county government loses Sh26 million annually to ghost workers. The report conducted by PriceWaterhouseCoopers indicated that 23 employees were not accounted for and have been taking home Sh26 million annually as salaries and benefits. Kinyanjui directed that the employees be removed immediately from the payroll. He said the county undertook a biometric staff audit as it needs the right workforce to deliver. Nakuru has been grappling with a ballooning wage bill of about Sh5.2 billion. “We have 48 per cent of employees who are aged over 50 years, meaning they will retire in the next 10 years. We will work on succession to avoid any gaps that will affect service delivery,” he said. The governor also said the county is investing in systems to ensure compliance in payment of rates through use of technology as opposed to employing more enforcement officers. “There are departments with acting officers. However, the county will train employees and also engage in capacity building to ensure the staff deliver on their mandate.