The High Court is today set for another ruling that could have far-reaching implications on police brutality and extrajudicial killings. The court will decide the fate of a police officer charged with assaulting and injuring a hawker. AP officer Gregory Wabwire was accused of beating and causing bodily harm to Dominic Munywoki, 37. Makadara senior principal magistrate Victor Wakumile heard that on December 31, 2011, Munywoki was going about his eggs business. Wabwire approached him and introduced himself as a police officer attached to Huruma chief’s camp. The officer ordered him to move a handcart that was parked by the roadside. Munywoki refused, saying that the handcart was not his. This enraged the officer, who slapped and roughed him up. Those who tried to intervene  were chased away by other officers. Read also: Ex-Ruaraka OCS Nahashon Mutua convicted of inmate's murder Wabwire dragged Munywoki to the camp, where he beat him several times with a metal bar.  The complainant suffered head injuries and a fractured leg. He was taken to Huruma police station by other APs. Munywoki reported the assault at the station under OB number 60/31/12/2011. He also obtained a P3 form that indicated the harm he had suffered. Three witnesses also recorded statements. Munywoki was admitted to Kenyatta National Hospital for two months. Wabwire disappeared for three years and was discharged from service. He was eventually arrested on August 27, 2014, in Nambale, Busia. He was charged but pleaded not guilty. Initially he was denied bond but was later released on Sh500,000 bail. The International Justice Mission has been representing Munywoki. In recent years, members of the public and civil society groups have raised concern over increased police brutality and extrajudicial killings. Last year, 10 officers were convicted of either murder or manslaughter. Former Ruaraka police station boss Nahashon Mutua was found guilty of killing a suspect who had been arrested for fighting with his wife. More: How top cop killed trader in police cell Click here for
the latest political news