An emotional memorial service for the late Abel Mugenda took place yesterday at St. Andrew's Presbyterian church, Nairobi ahead of his burial today. Olive Mugenda eulogized his late husband for 36 years as an honest and humble husband who never courted controversy. “Our children and I used to call you a walking dictionary because of your intelligence and ability to cite facts on any topic of discussion even those outside your area of specialization, including medicine, law, international politics, history, philosophy and many other areas,” she said. The judicial service commissioner expressed his vision of inspiring students and ensuring quality research that became entrenched in both universities and colleges. “You also inspired many institutions to conduct monitoring and evaluation of their systems and processes to ensure that their targets were met,” she said. Abel is survived with his wife and four children; Albert gitau, Chris nyoike, Angela wambui and Lynda wambui. “I am grateful for the time God gave us with you. Your memory will always be in my heart,” his daughter Angela eulogized. Various leaders were present to console with the family and friends including Chief Justice David Maraga, Cabinet Secretary for the Public Service, Youth and Gender Affairs Margaret kobia and clergies from the presbyterian church. Maraga said that he was an accomplished writer and a humble man whose humility and generosity touched many people. “He was a well rounded person and tried in sporting activities like football and rugby. We join as a judiciary to mourn a great man,” he said. Kenyatta university Chancellor Benson wairegi described the late as a great teacher and author who was committed in education and research. “He was passionate in training and mentoring eminent and respected scholar in both local and international communities,” he said. The family announced the 66 year-old professor died of a short illness. This was according to a statement that was released on Sunday, 6th January by the Presidential Strategic Communication Unit (PSCU). However, there were reports indicating that he jumped to his death from the sixth floor of the four-star hotel in Nyeri town at 5am on Saturday January 5th. He was a renowned consultant in the area of research, statistics, monitoring and evaluation. He will be buried today at his rural home in Thogoto village, Kiambu county. Click here for the latest political news