Some 2,753 Form One students are yet to report to their respective schools in Taita Taveta, a week after the deadline. Taita Taveta County Director of Education Simon Wanjohi said as at last Friday, only 70.84 per cent of Form One students had reported. “We expected a total of 9,443 students but only 6,690 had reported by Friday," Wanjohi said. He said 3,249 are boys while 3,441 are girls. The government intends to achieve 100 per cent transition in form one admissions across the country. The Interior CS Fred Matiang'i said chiefs and their assistants will be held accountable for students who fail to report to school. "No child has an excuse to be out of school under the free day secondary education programme," Matiang'i said. Read: Lack of Unique Personal Identifiers hampers Form One admissions Wanjohi said education officials are collaborating with the Ministry of Interior to trace the missing students. “We are assuming the remaining students might not have reported and they are still around. We shall work closely with chiefs and head teachers. We shall take them to school or have an explanation as to why they are not in school,” he said. The county director revealed that majority of day scholars were reluctant to join school compared to their boarding counterparts. He, however, urged parents to take advantage of the free education programme and advise their children to go to school. Taveta subcounty has registered the lowest number of students out of the four subcounties with 56.9 per cent. Mwatate has 77.86 per cent, Voi 74.2 percent and Taita 71.15 per cent. Taita Taveta County Executive Secretary for Kenta Union of Post Primary Education Teachers (Kuppet) Shedrack Mutungi blamed the ministry’s National Education Management Information System (Nemis) for the slow intake. Mutungi said many parents were unable to access admission letters through the system. Mutungi appealed to the Education Ministry to consider an alternative method in order to achieve 100 per cent transition. “The system is good for effective management. However, there have been delays on students who have applied for a change of school. I think the ministry can formulate an easier way to change a school or access the admission letters,” Mutungi said. On Tuesday last week, Basic Education PS Belio Kipsang said at least 83 per cent of form ones nationally had reported to school by January 18. He said about 500 schools that were yet to upload student data on Nemis would miss out on capitation. According to Kipsang, the 100 per cent transition may have already been achieved only that some schools were yet to upload student details on the system. Speaking in his Voi office on Monday, Taita Taveta Senator Jones Mwaruma attributed the low intake to delay in bursary disbursement by the county government. Mwaruma said many students had not reported in form one for lack of school fees. “This year, the county government has delayed in issuing bursaries and it has clearly resulted to this low number of Form One students. Many students camp in my office every day for assistance,” Mwaruma said. He challenged the county government and other leaders in the county to prioritise education and allocate more funds for bursary and scholarships. Last week, Governor Granton Samboja issued Sh40 million bursary to bright and needy students. Read: All KCPE candidates will join form one, says Amina Also read: Government extends Form One reporting deadline to January 18 Click here for the latest political news