The second phase of Mau evictions will soon begin as the government aims to protect degraded water towers. Narok county commissioner George Natembeya yesterday said preparations are on course. The government aims to evict 40,000 people in the next phase. A report in 2009 showed 7,989 structures were built on 19,768 acres. Some had legal land titles, but 3,600 people did not have any documents. Some illegal settlers have left voluntarily ahead of the upcoming crackdown. “The ministry of Environment and Forestry is working on something concrete,” Natembeya told the Star on the phone. Inadequate resources hampered the process last year and only the first phase was completed. The government recovered 29,653 acres. The removals were politicised after leaders from the Kalenjin community accused the government of being insensitive to the plight of settlers. Some 7,082 illegal settlers were removed from Kosia, Nkoben, Arorwet, Kipchoge and Total, and more than 1,700 structures demolished. The Mau complex sustains many natural habitats in the lower catchments. Wanton destruction of trees in the water catchment over the years has resulted in a public outcry. Water levels in some of the rivers depending on the complex have dropped significantly. The complex forms part of the upper catchments of all but one main river on the west side of the Rift Valley, including Nzoia, Yala, Nyando, Sondu, Mara, Ewaso Ngiro (south), Naishi, Makalia, Nderit, Njoro, Molo and Kerio. It provides water to six major lakes — Victoria, Turkana, Baringo, Naivasha, Nakuru and Natron. Yesterday, Natembeya said the heavily degraded areas of the forest will regenerate on their own with time. The Mau complex contributes to significant economic growth and is the backborne of many agricultural sectors. The value of goods and services generated annually in the tea, tourism and energy sectors is in excess of Sh20 billion. Other critical water towers include Mt Kenya, the Aberdare and Mt Elgon forests and Cherangani Hills. Conservation efforts also target Maasai Mara National Reserve, the Lake Nakuru National Park and the Kakamega National Reserve. Others are Kerio Valley National Reserve, South Turkana National Reserve, Lake Baringo and Lake Natron. The lakes and areas served by Mau support plants and animals. Kakamega, Baringo and Natron are classified as important bird areas, with Kakamega and Baringo each having more than 450 species, and Natron being the main breeding area for flamingoes. Other important bird areas include Koguta Swamp (Kenya–Sondu River), Kusa Swamp (Kenya–Nyando River), Serengeti National Park (Tanzania–Mara River), Mara Bay and Masirori Swamp (Tanzania–Mara River).