Education CS Amina Mohamed has downplayed the call to give learners contraceptives to curb the increasing teen pregnancies. The discussion was triggered by the high number of pregnant girls sitting last year’s KCPE/KCSE exams that prompted the CS to call for an audit on the number of teenage pregnancies in schools. Amina noted that the calls were unreasonable as most learners are legally not old enough to make decisions to engage in sex. The age of consent in Kenya is 18. “The girls in question are minors. At a certain age, there is no consensual sex. They don’t have a thing to do with consent. Many of this girls have been waylaid. Others it was basically a case of rape. How do you offer contraceptives to a rape case. So, basically, we need to look for a solution for our societal problem because it is a societal problem,” she told the Star in an interview. Amina said the alarming number of teenage pregnancies requires a multi-agency support that will address the issue in the long-term. “We need a multi-agency support if we are to battle this. Some issues such as early marriages are cultural, FGM is cultural and sometimes our modern life also affects our children. For instance, in a case where both parents are working and they don’t have enough time to counsel their children, it is a societal problem that we all need to take responsibility on,” she said. Amina said this will be possible through development of a toolkit of solutions. The CS revealed that during her first stint as the Education minister, she outlawed early morning and late evening tuition for learners as it posed risk to their safety in the dark. “Between home and school, a child is exposed to violence. Some children are molested on their way to school, thus we enforced regulations on the hours of school operation to assure safety of our learners,” she said. Statistics from the United Nations Population Fund indicate that between June 2016 and July 2017, 378,397 adolescents in Kenya aged 10 to 19 got pregnant. Organisations working on children issues say the number could be higher. The organisations have called for a multi-disciplinary approach to end the vice that they say changes the dimension of childhood for victims. Narok county recorded the highest rate of teen pregnancies at 40 per cent, followed by Homa Bay at 33 per cent, Tana River 28 per cent, Nyamira 28 per cent, and Samburu 26 per cent, although the government is yet to release its official figures. In Kenya, about 11 per cent of teenagers are having sex before their 15th birthday. The rates in Uganda are about the same — with about 10 per cent of adolescents having had sex. Amina says the government is working on a policy and safe zones that will guarantee safety of learners. She revealed that some of the issues leading to teen pregnancies have undermined the government’s plan to achieve 100 per cent transition from primary to secondary schools. She cited early marriages and cases where children fend for their pastoralist families. Kenya Secondary Schools Heads Association chairman Indimuli Kahi yesterday said inadequate facilities and infrastructure also hurt transition. “Most schools have admitted up to 200 per cent of students and we are now wondering how they are going to cope with the situation. Dormitories and classrooms are excessively congested,” he told the Star on the phone. Kenya Parent Association chairman Nicholas Maiyo said drugs and poverty could have also hurt transition. Amina warned that parents who fail to take their children to school will be held responsible. “This is a presidential directive and we are working with the chiefs so they give us information on children who have not been taken to school,” she said. Some 83 per cent of the 1,032,334 students have reported to school, the ministry said yesterday. Last year’s transition rate was 83.93 per cent of 942,021 candidates.