A family tussle over the exhumation of the body of a former teacher in Eldoret has intensified after the High Court allowed her son to join the case. Son Edwin Oginda wants the body of his mother Veronica Kemunto exhumed for a second postmortem. The first postmortem concluded she died of a severe cardiac arrest. But his father Elijah Oginda does not want the body exhumed. Kemunto was a teacher at Kandie Primary School in Eldoret. She died on December 11, 2018, and was buried on December 21. The order to exhume the body was issued by Eldoret principal magistrate Naomi Wairimu on January 10, but Elijah appealed against the decision at the High Court. Wairimu had ruled that the body be exhumed after hearing an application filed by Martha Osinde, the mother of Kemunto. High Court judge Hellen Omondi issued temporary stay orders, pending an inter-partes hearing, which started yesterday. Edwin has questioned the cause of his mother’s death and supports the demand by some family members to have the body exhumed. Edwin in an application filed at the High Court says they want a second postmortem to ascertain what led to the death of their mother. “The circumstances leading to the death of our mother are not clear. We seek to have the body exhumed for an independent autopsy,” Edwin’s affidavit sworn on January 21 says. But his father Elijah, through lawyer Dennis Magare, had objected admission of his son in the case. He argued that he was not part of the initial case. However, Justice Olga Sewe said Edwin has the right to be heard in the matter. Sewe said Edwin could not be blocked from the case just because he was not part of the initial case. “He is a son of the deceased and has an equal right to be part of the case,” the judge said. Elijah rejected the move to exhume the body, arguing that the postmortem done by Dr William Nalianya, a pathologist at Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital, showed Kemunto died after a severe cardiac arrest. He has dismissed as untrue claims that his wife died at home as alleged by some family members. He told the court his wife died at an Eldoret hospital. At the lower court, Elijah told the magistrate court he was satisfied with the pathologist report. He also denied allegations of assaulting relatives of his wife and blocking his in-laws from attending the burial of Kemunto who was buried near Eldoret town.