The misfiring Gor Mahia forward received a boost yesterday after former Harambee Stars captain and Kenya’s all time top scorer Dennis Oliech officially signed a two- year long deal with the 17-time champions. The experienced forward pulled out of retirement last week and began training with the champions where his fitness levels impressed the technical bench who later gave the Executive Committee the green-light to secure his services. Consequently, Oliech will reap a sign on fee estimated to be Sh3.5 million which also makes him the highest paid player in the Kenya Premier League with a monthly salary of Sh350, 000. The ‘Dennis the Menace’ as he is popularly known is set to make a return to the local league for the second time after leaving Mathare United in 2003 to sign for Qatar-based Al Arabi—a move which marked a start to his professional career which stretched to 2016. The striker would later have an illustrious career in France, where he had stints with Nantes, Ajaccio and Auxerre, a club which he represented in the prestigious Uefa Champions League. In 2015, he joined Dubai SC in United Arab Emirates, where he plied his trade until 2016 when he announced his retirement from football. Oliech was yesterday unveiled by the club’s chairman Ambrose Rachier despite maintaining that he had not had a word with the technical bench regarding his fitness. Rachier had earlier denied having talks with the striker and hinted of giving an official statement today after consultations with his bench following yesterday’s game. However, a picture of him handing Oliech the official jersey surfaced online and later the Chief Executive Officer Omondi Aduda confirmed his signing. “I can confirm we have signed him for two seasons.” The decorated forward boasts 34 goals for Harambee Stars and was part of the squad which last qualified for the 2004 Africa Cup of Nations, courtesy of his solo strike against Cape Verde in the qualifying rounds an year earlier. His last appearance in the national team came in 2015 for the 2017 Afcon qualifiers, where Kenya lost 2-1 to Zambia at Nyayo Stadium.