An injured Crowned Eagle from Baringo is recovering but can no longer hunt or fly properly. The baby eagle fell out of its nest and broke its right wing and foot at Kitibei village in Baringo North in May 2016. Now it cannot grasp prey with its claws. The eagle is being rehabilitated by Simon Thomsett of Kenya Bird of Prey Trust inside Soysambu conservancy in Naivasha. His organization is committed to rescuing, caring, conserving, researching and educating on rare bird species. On Monday Thomsett told a delegation from Baringo that the eagle, nicknamed George, is nesting with a female Crowned Eagle, nicknamed Gusiana. He hopes that the two will breed and produce chicks in about two years when George is fully mature. “My suggestion is that the two be allowed to breed so they can produce their young ones whom we can release back in future to their ancestral habitats in Baringo and Narok,” Thomsett told the delegation. “It is not a good candidate for release at the moment”, Thomsett said. There are now between seven and 12 Crowned Eagles in Baringo, he said. Saimo-Kipsaraman Ward Representative John Aengwo led a fact finding mission to the bird sanctuary including Lake Baringo warden Jackson Komen and five elders from Kitibei village - James Chelekwel, Patrick Chesaro, Joshua Chepkong’a and Isaac Aengwo. “The local community wants to reclaim back our treasure eagle after successfully getting it treated,” Aengwo told Thomsett. Thomsett told the delegation that the eagle’s physical condition might improve in future. He said that his only concern was the comfort of rescued birds and that the sanctuary was not profit-making. The Crowned Eagle is the apex predator in forests in sub-Saharan Africa. Its preferred habitats are riparian woodlands and forests and they prey on monkeys, rock hyraxes and small antelopes. Thomsett said Crowned Eagles produce one or two chicks per year. He asked the community delegation to urgently prepare a local sanctuary. “The chicks can then be released when they are at least two years old, on condition that the local communities identify favourable habitats such as thick forests and promise to take good care of them,” he said. Aengwo called on the county government to contribute to the cost of setting up a sanctuary at Kitibei near Releng forested area where the Crowned Eagles could live. He said it could make a world-class tourist attraction together with Releng hot-spring. North Rift Tourism Coordinator William Kimosop said when two Crowned Eagles hatch together, one feeds faster and gets stronger than the other. “In the process of competing for food, the weaker one can be pushed out of the nest. Survival of the fittest rules every ecosystem. This could be the reason for the eagle’s injury", Kimosop said.  