President Uhuru Kenyatta’s stay in Mombasa has caused jitters within Jubilee following the elevation of Interior CS Fred Matiang’i to a super minister. Uhuru on Tuesday appointed Matiang’i to head a Cabinet committee and report directly to the President, a move seen to be aimed at clipping the powers of DP William Ruto. The Deputy President on Wednesday flew to Mombasa to seek clarification on the matter with allies saying he was not consulted. National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale denied there was trouble within the ruling party. He said Wednesday’s meeting at State House was to discuss Jubilee’s legislative agenda for the year. Political observers however say Ruto’s short trip to Mombasa was an indicator that all is not well within Jubilee. After meeting Uhuru, Ruto called a meeting of all his lieutenants in Nairobi yesterday. A Coast MP who was invited confirmed the meeting. “We are with him right now. I will call later,” the MP told the Star on phone yesterday. Uhuru did not meet any of the Coast MPs during his stay in Mombasa like he has done previously. The MPs said people should not read politics in the move. Mvita’s Abdulswamad Nassir said the President was keen on delivering on his promises. “It is his last term. He wants to work and he wants to be alone, maybe to concentrate,” Nassir said. He said Uhuru did not come to Mombasa for political reasons. “His stay here should not be co-related to us whatsoever,” he said. Jomvu MP Badi Twalib, a close Ruto ally, said they were unaware of the meeting between Ruto and Uhuru on Wednesday. “We were not invited. In fact, I’m in Nairobi as we speak,” Twalib said. Kisauni MP Ali Mbogo, another Ruto ally, told the Star he was also in Nairobi for a meeting. He did not say what the meeting was about. Political analyst Hassan Mwakomako said Kenyans should not read too much into Uhuru’s recent actions. He said Uhuru was within his purview as Head of State to reorganise his Cabinet. “The Constitution gives different powers to both the President and the Deputy President. By elevating Matiang’i, he has not denigrated the position of the Deputy President in any way. It is prerogative of the President,” Mwakimako said. He said the President’s executive order can be revoked unlike Ruto’s roles as the Deputy President, which are enshrined in the Constitution. “The executive order is a temporary stop-gap measure. These are ordinary things that happen,” the Pwani University don said. He said the State House meeting between Ruto and Uhuru does not necessarily mean there is a problem between the two. “We do not know what exactly transpired so anything else is speculation,” Mwakimako said.