July
5 passed without a sound. Not so July 5, 1969. It was a Saturday. The
week had been very exciting at Kagumo School. We had just been told that our
second term would be cut short by 10 days. Students loathed second term as they
do this century; only that we were too mature, disciplined and responsible not to
burn dormitories. It has always been the toughest for students. It is the
coldest. In class, teachers always wanted to cover more on the syllabus. It was
also the athletics term and, in Kagumo, that meant torture for the less
gamesome boys like yours truly. Each
boy was supposed to participate in all the events that comprise athletics
throughout the term. For each event you were awarded points, based on your
performance. You either got zero (below ‘pass-mark’ performance), one or two
marks. At the end of the term, these points were aggregated and added to what
each house (dormitory) scored on the inter-house games day. At
the end of the second term, the highlight nationally was the national secondary
schools’ championships. So, stars from top games schools such as Kagumo would
find themselves in the Central Province team and delivering even national
records to the school. Now,
the reason why we had to close the school early that year was because, for the
first time ever, Ruring’u Stadium in Nyeri town was the venue for the national
games and Kagumo had been selected to house some of the athletes from all over
Kenya. The
events of the morning of Saturday, July 5, killed the excitement of going home
early and the spirit of the imminent games. Someone had gunned down Thomas
Joseph Mboya on Government Road, Nairobi (now Moi Avenue). Tom Mboya was
arguably the most widely loved politician in Kenya then. Analysts all over the
world, including international press such as Times and Newsweek of America were
seeing (and talking loudly about it) the next President of Kenya in him. Certainly
not everybody loved him or such prospects. He had to exit the scene. The news
spread like wildfire and the country was at a standstill. No other subject was
discussed in the school that afternoon. Many are those that cried as they
received the news. Then
came the 7pm VoK TV newscast. Our favourite news anchor, Mohamed Juma Njuguna
(MJN) delivered the devastating news. On that fateful Saturday, by 7pm, the
assembly hall at Kagumo was as full as it was for the compulsory Sunday service
or morning assemblies. No boy could miss this; we were dying for details of the
shooting. Njuguna’s
usual fluency as he read the news was missing that evening. It became worse. He
just broke down and started crying in front of all Kenyans who had tuned in.
That sight and emotion opened a floodgate of tears and everybody in the hall
was in tears. I do not even remember what happened to the newscast thereafter. By
the end of the following week Kenya was on fire. The state had never been that
shaken and unstable since the Mau Mau war of independence. It took oathing of
the GEMA communities (the Mau Mau style) to again divide Kenyans enough to
restore some form of stability. I
only managed to pay homage to the fallen son of Africa 42 years later (2011),
when I first visited his mausoleum on Rusinga Island. African leadership can be
that wasteful; it can waste the lives of the highest potential leaders.  mwaikihu@fechim.com