If you are a recent university graduate currently looking for a job — or the parent of such a recent graduate — then one book I would discourage you from opening, even reading the first page, is The Global Auction: The Broken Promise of Education, Jobs and Incomes. Written by three academics, Phillip Brown, Hugh Lauder and David Ashton, it is targeted principally at the American reader and seeks to explain why the entry into the American middle class by young American graduates can no longer be taken for granted. And the key reason for this is — apparently — is that the competition for good jobs is no longer local or national, but global. More on that later. It has plenty of bad news for the Kenyan reader as well. For example, if you think that Kenya does not invest enough in education and training, it may come as a surprise to you to learn that even those nations that are dedicated to greater investment in education are likely to be disappointed. As the authors note: “Today, billions of dollars are spent on mobilizing American and European workers in a bid to outsmart rivals in the competition for the best jobs, technologies, and companies. A vast edifice of policies, programs, and initiatives has been introduced in virtually all affluent countries…[however] much of this money, effort, and enterprise will be wasted…Schooled in the belief that ‘learning equals earning,’ many Americans have unrealistic expectations...” Also of potential interest to Kenyans is that even as our government continues to drag its feet over the proposed ‘Konza Technopolis, out of which it is expected that an African ‘Silicon Savannah will arise: “In Southern China, an entire island has been developed into a Higher Education Mega Centre with its own metro line connecting it to the city of Guangzhou. It is home to 10 universities with 120,000 students and the potential to accommodate another 80,000 students, with 20,000 faculty and 50,000 support staff. “It took only 18 months to construct and includes state-of-the-art information technology (IT) and science labs, world-class libraries, and an Olympic-standard stadium and sports facilities. In addition, there are more than 50 research centers in fields ranging from engineering, medicine, IT, advanced manufacturing, and business management.” Well, having noted all this, now consider an anecdote told me by someone of my own generation, about what he considered to be the most telling example of how Kenya has changed, and — in his view — the root cause of all our troubles: Back in the early years of Independence all the way to the 1990s — and despite the well-documented economic stagnation of the 1990s — if a college-educated middle-class Kenyan was chatting with the office messenger or ‘tea girl’ or security guard, the conversation sooner or later would turn to the hopes these men and women had that their children would one day be managers too. Kenyans in lower income jobs had an iron conviction that their children had a ready path — through higher education — to a life similar to that which the ‘bosses lived so conspicuously. As this book puts it: “This faith in the endless potential to create middle-class jobs for those who invested in education resembles a secular religion. The hold of this faith over current thinking is difficult to exaggerate…[but] it would be more fitting in a fairy tale than in an account of reality.” Well, in Kenya some people have come to see through this fairy tale. According to my friend, nowadays it is far more likely that such Kenyans in humble circumstances would ask that middle-aged professional, “Is it true that there are university graduates employed in humble jobs just like mine? That they cannot get ‘proper’ jobs? If so, then what chance is there for my children, who I had hoped would not have to live a life of hardships like me?” But however depressing all this may be, it is no cause for despair. There is always a way out, even if there may be no immediate and obvious solutions to Kenya’s youth unemployment crisis.