The launch of the Lake Region Economic Bloc might take longer as 10 counties have not ratified the bill that would allow it. Only four counties — Kisii, Migori, Kakamega and Kisumu — have ratified the Lake Region Economic Bloc Bill. It enables each county to allocate Sh200 million for formation of a regional bank — the bloc’s flagship project. The bloc needs only six counties to pass the bill to make room for its unveiling. They require two more. Counties yet to adopt it are Busia, Nyamira, Bomet, Siaya, Homa Bay, Bungoma, Nandi, Vihiga, Kericho and Trans Nzoia. The bloc seeks to raise Sh2.8 billion to have a controlling stake in a commercial bank. Failure to approve the bill is, however, derailing the plan. Governors from the region held their fourth summit in Kisii on Thursday and Friday. The bill featured prominently in their discussions. Governors from the 10 counties were asked to convince their county assemblies to pass it. Only Trans Nzoia was not represented. “The counties were told to show their seriousness by having their county assemblies pass the bill. Some accepted that the process has not been easy because the viability of the bank has been questioned,” a source familiar with the proceedings told the Star. Siaya assembly speaker George Okode said they received the bill as a legislative proposal and that has hampered their work. “We are waiting for the executive or the LREB secretariat to resubmit it to the assembly after publication in the Kenya Gazette, after which a house committee will subject it to public participation,” he said. “Proposed amendments, if any, will be shared with the LREB secretariat before the final consideration by the House. Gazettement and public participation are mandatory processes in law-making, which the assembly cannot overlook while considering the LREB Bill.” Asked about the viability of the regional bank, he said the people of Siaya and the region will decide. Bungoma governor Wycliffe Wangamati said the bill has been presented to the assembly and is at an advanced stage of being passed. He was confident that his MCAs will pass it after resuming from recess. Adopt by end of February LREB chairman Wycliffe Oparanya said the counties should adopt the bill by end of February. “I’m happy that the counties which have not ratified the bill are in various stages of legislating it,” he said. Kisii governor James Ongwae defended the counties, saying, “No county within the region has rejected formation of the bloc. All are set to ratify the bill,” he said. Some of the counties that have not passed the bill are wrangle-ridden. An example is Homa Bay. The bill is at a committee level in Nandi, a source familiar with its sittings said. Lake Region Economic Bloc Assemblies Forum chairman Moffat Teya (Nyamira) said they expect all the counties to expedite their work. “In Nyamira, once we resume from recess in February, the bill will be tabled and ratified. Other assemblies are expected to do it,” he told the Star. “In some counties public participation took longer than expected, but we expect the bill to be passed. We are committed to the LREB.” Click here for the latest political news