Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka’s critics have dismissed a meeting he has organised for today, saying it won’t end their resolve to free Ukambani of ‘bad leadership’. Kalonzo has invited MPs, MCAs and key personalities from Ukambani to the meeting at his Yatta farm, Machakos. The goat-eating party comes in the backdrop of a growing rebellion against the former Vice-President’s three-decades hold of Ukambani turf. The resentment has been manifested in the union bringing together governors Kivutha Kibwana of Makueni, Alfred Mutua of Machakos and Charity Ngilu of Kitui. The trio, who are behind the South Eastern Kenya Economic Bloc (Sekeb), say they will rally the Kamba community behind a different political direction ahead of the 2022 General Election. Ngilu and Kibwana were invited to the meeting, but had not confirmed attendance by press time. The supporters of the three governors dismissed Kalonzo’s meeting as ‘insignificant’. Read: Kalonzo still jobless while his dominance of Ukambani under threat Citing the case of Kitui, the politicians accused the Wiper party leader of instigating rebellion in the three Ukambani counties by using MCAs to frustrate governors. Mwala MP Vincent Munyaka told the Star it is laughable that Kalonzo is still holding meetings in his backyard “when other forward-looking leaders are seeking support outside their communities”. “When a politician holds meetings in his backyard, it shows he or she is not ripe for the presidency, which is a national responsibility,” the legislator said yesterday. He said the coming together of the Machakos, Makueni and Kitui governors, shows there is a leadership problem in Ukambani. He further dismissed claims that those who defy the Wiper leader stand condemned by the electorate. “The element of ‘finishing leaders politically’ was proven wrong when Mutua and I won our seats last election,” Munyaka said. However, the Wiper party says it is sensational to claim that Kalonzo is facing a rebellion in the region. Its director general Jared Siso said today’s meeting is normal and will dwell on how the party will move forward this year. “The former Vice- President has held such meetings before,” Siso said. The official dismissed the Kibwana-Mutua-Ngilu alliance, saying such associations are commonplace across the political divide and not unique to Wiper. “After the handshake, outgoing governors have wanted to position themselves for the future after finishing their two terms in office,” Siso said, adding that Wiper is not worried by such moves. “Apart from Ngilu, the other two governors have to be worried about their future after finishing their two-year terms in 2022.” But the feeling in the Mutua, Kibwana and Ngilu camp is that much as they may be dismissed, their union has cast doubt on Kalonzo’s ability to use Ukambani vote as a bargaining chip for building alliances. Kibwana, Mutua and Kalonzo have all declared their bids to succeed Uhuru, a situation that makes them potential candidates or running mates of candidates in the election. More: Ukambani governors rooting for Kalonzo’s failure in ‘22, says MP Click here for
the latest political news