Embu MCAs are annoyed with Governor Martin Wambora for allegedly being behind a court case that has “frustrated their operations”. The 20 ward representatives are also unhappy with nominated MCA Margaret Kariuki, who has sued the county assembly for removing her from the Budget and Appropriations Committee in October last year. The MCAs claim the governor colluded with Kariuki to file the case. Wambora has denied the allegations. They protested on Tuesday after Justice Florence Muchemi summoned assembly speaker Josiah Thiriku for defying a court order restraining him from removing Kariuki and other members from the committee. Thiriku was required to explain why he should not be jailed for contempt of court. The ward representatives, residents and boda boda operators marched to the High Court in Embu, shouting slogans against the governor, Kariuki and the court. The MCAs included Thiriku, majority leader Michael Njeru, minority leader Masters Mwaniki, Morris Collo, Harrison Muturi, Newton Kariuki, Duncan Mbui, Harrison Mwaluko, Philip Nzangi, Peter Muriithi and Fredrick Mugendi. The ward reps said the case and several others filed before Muchemi were aimed at frustrating the oversight and legislative duties of the assembly. They demanded that the case be withdrawn. They claimed Wambora had promised to persuade Kariuki to withdraw it, but he did not. The MCAs and residents also marched to the governor’s office, where they demanded that Wambora persuades Kariuki to withdraw the case. “Residents cannot get essential services owing to this case. The court did wrong for accepting to be misused in derailing the assembly’s operations. Chief Justice David Maraga should intervene,” MCA Muturi said. The case will be mentioned on March 19. But Wambora said he had nothing to do with the case. The county chief said he had persuaded Kariuki to withdraw it and she had agreed to do so. He said due process was being followed before the case is officially withdrawn after both sides agree on the conditions to be met by each. The governor said MCAs are impatient and asked them to wait for the process to be finalised. Operations in the county have almost ground to a halt after the MCAs resolved that they will not deliberate on any budgetary matters from the executive until the case is withdrawn.