Still waters run deep, so
they say. This can be said of
Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya, who not only has his political clout bulging but his development record in his backyard has also been acknowledged. Unlike his towering
stature, Oparanya, a certified public accountant is a man of few words, and is
credited with various projects in roads, health and sports.  BACKGROUND Oparanya started schooling
as Mabole Primary School, sat his O level at Butere Boy's before joining Kisii
School for his A Levels. He has a Bachelor of
Commerce and MBA Finance, both from the University of Nairobi. He is now pursuing a PhD
in Economics from the University of Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. Before plunging into
politics Oparanya, an international finance management consultant, was the CEO
Aerotec Ltd, an airport ground handling company. He also served as Treasurer
for AFC Leopards Football Club. He became Butere MP in
2002 — succeeding Amukoa Anangwe — a seat he held until 2013. He also served as Planning
and National Development and Vision 2030 minister during President Mwai
Kibaki's second term, under the coalition government. He was from the ODM wing. It is during his tenure
that Kenya conducted the 2009 controversial census. In February 2012, Oparanya
tabled a revised post census figures in Parliament showing that figures in
eight sub counties — Lagdera, Mandera East, Mandera Central, Mandera West,
Wajir East, Turkana North, Turkana South and Turkana Central — were
inflated in the population count. The inflated figures read that the
regions had 2.35 million people but the then minister’s figures read 1.3
million people as the actual population size. His election as the Council of Governors chairman on January 14, and last year as the  Lake Region Economic Bloc boss is seen as a vote of confidence, which is likely to spur his political career. The conversation on Oparanya comes at a time when the Western region is seeking for unity ahead of 2022 polls. Oparanya last year said, “Luhyas must organise themselves to ensure the community is in government. I am ready to present a single candidate in the next polls.” In February last year, Oparanya hinted he will run for presidency in 2022 after completing his second term. “You have seen how we have worked to transform Kakamega. In 2022, I will be looking for a higher seat because my development record at the county can be seen by everyone,” he said in Khwisero, Butere.  WESTERN KENYA INFLUENCE In a survey December
2016 commissioned by Cotu Secretary general Francis
Atwoli and conducted by University of Nairobi, Oparanya emerged as a
second popular leader in Western, Amani leader Musalia Mudavadi. Mudavadi, who was
named the Luhya community spokesperson, had 38 per cent rating, while
Oparanya and Ford Kenya leader and Bungoma senator Moses Wetang'ula
garnered 30 per cent each. “Given that Oparanya heads
one of the largest counties in the country, his performance so far as a
governor and the new positions make him a key political factor not
only in the Western region but nationally,” nominated MP Godfrey Osotsi said. He said his election as
CoG chairman, which came as a surprise, puts him in a strategic position
in national politics. "He has exemplary
good governance skills that has made him rank highly among his peers, giving
him a national appeal politically," he said. The sentiments were echoed
by political analyst Martin Andati, who said the positions are a stepping
stone he can use to scale the political ladder. The positions are
preparing him for big things in politics, Andati said. “The CoG chair post
gives him a huge platform. He is the fulcrum between the counties and
the national government, and this comes with  a lot of
visibility and influence,” he said. “With
that visibility and influence it puts him in good standing. However,
in regards to Western politics, Mudavadi remains a front runner who enjoys a
national outlook.” He, however, cautioned
Oparanya not to concentrate much on new post at the disadvantage of his people. “We congratulate him and
wish him well. We are happy that the seat has come home. But let us not read
too much into this. Western politics is all a different ball game,” Vihiga
Senator George Khaniri said. Political analyst Amukoa
Anangwe, however, said it was flawed to analyse his rise based on the CoG
post, or the mere fact that he hosted the devolution conference  and
Mashujaa Day, which is done on rotational basis. “People should not read
too much into it because it brings unwarranted expectations. The position is
inconsequential to his stature. It has no extra allocation or resources, either
to the county nor the governor,” Anangwe said. “The same applies to the
regional bloc. It brings no leverage to him as there is no any extra
opportunities or resources to dispense,” he said. “He is on the right track.
He has been consistent in ODM and when other politicians were trooping to UDF
prior to 2013 elections and to Jubilee ahead of 2017 polls, he remained put.
This consistency shows he is trustworthy and steadfast,” he Otostsi said.  