Amani National Congress deputy party leader Ayub Savula has warned Luhya MPs allied to the Deputy President that they will be taught a political lesson come 2022. Savula dismissed Luhya leaders ‘loitering’ with William Ruto asself-seekers who do not represent the wishes of the community. But the Lugari MP was not specific on what lesson Ruto’s allies in the region will be taught. “The MPs hide under the guise of development but it is they who approve the budget and should have factored the projects they want in their areas in the budget,” Savula said in Mumias on Wednesday. The DP’s Western allies include Didmus Barasa (Kimilili), Mwambu Mabonga (Bumula) Emmanuel Wangwe (Navakholo), Benjamin Washiali (Mumias East) John Waluke (Sirisia), Jutus Murunga (Matungu), Titus Khamala (Lurambi), Bernard Shinali (Ikolomani) and Dan Wanyama (Webuye West). The lawmakers have defended their links with Ruto, saying they are pursuing for their people’s development. Savula said: “We have seen them escort the DP to relaunch projects already launched and announce fake ones which do not take off to hoodwink the electorate into backing his bid.” The MP said Western has its own leaders like Musalia Mudavadi, Moses Wetang’ula, Francis Atwoli, Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa and governor Wycliffe Oparanya who represent the region in national politics. “Unless Ruto comes through these leaders, he is wasting his valuable time and resources on brokers,” he added. At the weekend burial of Savula’s daughter, Joanne Chepchirchir, Atwoli insisted that Ruto will never be the President of Kenya and that he should be blocked from vying in the 2022 presidential polls. Succeeding Uhuru Atwoli said the DP is not the right leader since he hates other leaders. The unionist said they have a problem with Ruto and not the Kalenjin community. “Ruto will never lead Kenya. We shall have a President in 2022, but it will not be William Ruto,” the Cotu boss said. The DP has intensified his visits to Western Kenya in recent past, making an average of three appearances a month. He has been in the region to launch development projects, deliver buses to schools and conduct fundraisers for churches. MPs allied to him have been pressuring ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi to join the DP as a running mate in the next polls. Mudavadi has however ruled out any likelihood of working with the DP ahead of the 2022 race. The DP and Mudavadi are among the leaders angling to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta when he retires in 2022. Mudavadi was made Luhya spokesman by Atwoli at Bukhungu Stadium on December 31, 2016.