National assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale has accused a section of chiefs and security agencies for doing little to curb drug abuse among the youth in the area. Duale said the rate at which the substances that include codeine, taptap, bhang among other hard drugs are being abused is not only worrying but now a major concern to the area leadership. Speaking at Iftin primary school after touring several schools in his Township constituency, Duale said the buck stops with the chiefs ‘who are the eyes of the government at the grassroots’. “The rate at which our youth are abusing drugs is worrying. The most annoying part is very little is being done to stop the same by the relevant authorities,” Duale said. “The administrators and security officers know very well where this drugs are sold but have done absolutely nothing,” he added. He said that miraa sellers were the most notorious in selling the hard drugs. Dale recounted how several parents had gone to him to complain that their children had resorted to drug abuse and even told him where the drugs are sold. This prompted him to personally visit the said places where the drugs are sold and confirmed it. “I took a Probox and drove myself next to the spots and parked a few meters away. I confirmed that drugs were being sold. I could see drugs and money changing hands. I could not believe my eyes,” Duale said. He said that the situation cannot not be left to continue like that and called on the security apparatus including the local administrators, parents and religious leaders to work closely with the local leadership to make sure that the vice is brought to an end. Duale said that he will hold a meeting with all the stakeholders in the area to try and come up with a lasting solution. “If we continue giving a blind eye to the problem, then we risk losing an entire generation to drugs,” he noted. A group of Muslim leaders led by area Supkem secretary Abdullahi Salat recently raised concern over the level of drug abuse that they noted ‘was on the rise and alarming’. Late last year, Pharmacy and Poisons Board carried out a sting operation in pharmacists, several joints believed to be selling the drugs including areas where miraa is sold. Several people were arrested including those believed to be behind the illegal business of supplying the drugs.