Low staff morale due to rough handling of workers by Nairobi governor Mike Sonko is behind the 60 per cent fall in revenue collection, the Star has learned. City Hall collected a paltry Sh3.2 billion against the target of Sh8.3 billion from all its 134 internal revenue streams in the first half of the current financial year. This was revealed by the Budget and Finance Committee two weeks ago. “There is a problem. We need to sort out enforcement because that is why we are losing a lot of revenue?” Robert Mbatia, budget committee chair said. Mbatia said that the trend of declining revenue collection despite automation is worrying as it threatens to cripple services to the residents. Independent investigations by the Star have shown that there is a widespread apathy among enforcement officers at City Hall. Those who spoke said they are demoralised and no-longer enforce payment of fees and levies by businesses and property owners. They also do not carry out their basic duties of service delivery. They claim that they are fed up by the random sackings, suspensions and public bashing by their boss. “Why should we struggle to force people to pay taxes? Those who work hard are the first to go home. We have decided to come to the office at 8am and go home at 5pm provided that our jobs are safe,” said a senior county officer who sought anonymity. Another employee said that suspension and sacking of senior officers in the revenue department also hit hard the collections. Minority Chief whip Peter Imwatok termed the county employees as disillusioned lot. “You cannot expect someone to perform when you keep on threatening them, sacking and suspending without reasons,” he said. Deputy County Secretary Leboo Morintat said he was aware of the exact amount the county collected over the period, but disputed claims the workers are disillusioned. “This administration has been paying their salaries on time and we have even increased the pay by 15 per cent,” he said on the phone yesterday. Last year, Sonko suspended more than 300 workers – including executives and chief officers – over allegations of corruption, incompetence and disloyalty. Some of them were sacked in public events. According to the county’s revenue performance report released in September, the collections have been declining since Sonko took over from Evans Kidero in August 2017.