Impala Saracens have beefed up their squad by signing Strathmore Leos duo of Elkeans Musonye and George Orembo alongside Saul Kivumbi from Uganda Rhinos. Musonye, who has been capped by the Kenya Simbas in the last three years, will add depth to the squad and bolster the side. He also brings experience to the Ngong Road outfit having started his rugby career at Western Bulls in 2013. Orembo, who plays as centre will be trying to force his way into the starting 23, having a had a decent spell with the Leos in the last couple of seasons. Musonye and Orembo will join Impala on loan till the end of the season, while Kivumbi is a permanent transfer from his Ugandan outfit. Impala currently sit third on the log with 17 points after their 100 per cent record ended last month following a 41-10 demolition by league leaders Kabras at the Kakamega show ground. Head coach Frank Ndong termed the Kabras defeat a one off and expressed optimism that things will get better. “I’m happy the new signings we made in the mid season transfer and we hope to get better in the weeks ahead. We can’t wait for the league to resume this weekend to test our new combinations,” he said. Ndong said expects the league to be a hard fight with several teams in contention. “The league is competitive. We have seven eights teams who are looking good and everyone is fighting hard to make it to the playoffs,’ he said. The team, resumed training over the weekend ahead of the match against Nondies who lie fifth with 15 points. Ndong expects a close contest against their neighbours from Jamhuri Park on Saturday. “They have been one of the surprise teams of the season and we expect a tough contest against them,” added Ndong. Other fixtures for the weekend will see champions KCB face off with Mean Machine, league leaders Kabras take on Menengai Oilers, Quins have a date with Nakuru, win-less Strathmore Leos take on Mwamba while Homeboyz to battle it out with Blak Blad. Kenya Cup fixtures KCB v Mean Machine (Ruaraka) Homeboyz v Blak Bladv (Jamhuri Park) Harlequin v Top Fry (RFUEA ground) Kabras v Menengai Oilers (Kakamega) Saracens v Nondes (Impala) Strathmore Leos v Mwamba (Madaraka)