Seventy people have been arrested for allegedly presenting fake calling letters at the Moi Barracks Recruits Training College in Eldoret. The suspects were arrested yesterday after reporting to the college for admission. KDF spokesman Colnel Paul Njoroge said the suspects will be handed over to the police for investigations to establish how they got the fake calling letters. “Many of those arrested say they paid bribes of up to Sh300,000 to get the fake letters,” Njoroge said. They were locked up at the Eldoret police station from where they will be taken to court. Njoroge said last year 60 people were arrested over similar claims. He was speaking at the recruits training college during admission of recruits to the KDF. He said anyone who did not go through the the official recruitment held countrywide would not be allowed into the college. Njoroje said he couldn’t see why many people still fall prey to con men despite frequent warnings against paying bribes to join KDF. He said those involved in issuing the fake letters would be arrested and prosecuted. The KDF officers involved in the recruitment had been given strict instructions not to engage in graft. “We will however investigate the source of the fake letters and prevent recurrence of the same,” he said. Some of those arrested claimed they had been given the fake letters by people who said they were from KDF. Njoroge, however, said the entire recruitment had gone on smoothly and all those admitted to the college will commence training promptly. Last year those arrested at the barracks were prosecuted  but the cases were withdrawn. Njoroge said they would continue to sensitise the public on the need to avoid graft during recruitment. About 132 suspects were in May last year arrested with fake KDF admission letters at the same college. Ninety two people were arrested in similar circumstances in 2017, highlighting  how con men preyed  on jobless Kenyans. Brigadier Martin Ong’oi, who is Chief of Personnel at KDF, said the suspects had presented the fake letters on arrival at the college. The racket has been going on for a long time now. “The letters cannot be authoritatively confirmed to have been issued by the KDF and we have handed the owners of the letters to the civil police to carry out investigations,” Ong’oi told journalists. He said more suspects had escaped after arriving at the gate before they were detected. “When we started the recruitment on March 12, it was made clear that the recruitment is free and no corruption would be allowed,” he said. He said hundreds of people had lost millions of shillings to con men. Eldoret West police boss Samuel Mutunga said KDF had not provided necessary documents for which they can charge the suspects. He said most of the suspects were freed unconditionally, others on police bond while a few were released after depositing bail. Mutunga said it was not possible to charge the young men without evidence.