A priest and a musician yesterday supported Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria’s claim that President Uhuru Kenyatta has neglected his home county. Father James Maingi of St Peter’s Catholic church, Githunguri said that even though the President has his work cut out for the whole country, Kiambu county is entitled to its rightful share development. On his part, gospel artist Ngaruiya Junior said: “Our President is also a voter in Kiambu, and we are glad he is the President which gives us advantage that development should be realised.” Ngaruiya said many projects ranging from roads, water and electricity to employment are yet to be realised in the county. He wants the President, as a voter in the area, to address them just as he addresses them elsewhere. The two were speaking in Kiambu town. They said the county is underdeveloped with projects that had stalled. “If you look at the Ruiru-Githunguri-Uplands road, it is in pathetic condition yet it was commissioned. No work is going on yet the area produces milk, tea, and coffee,” Ngaruiya said. The musician said the people of Kiambu, especially those of Gatundu South, lack adequate clean water, adding that one can not say that the President has no say in such matters. Former governor William Kabogo, in an interview in a vernacular radio station on Monday, faulted the county legislators for not pushing more for Kiambu county. “It is true that Kiambu is not getting its rightful share but I have never heard anyone agitating for certain roads that have been left out or certain projects that are meant to benefit residents,” Kabogo said. He said that the census scheduled for August this year should be a guide on how resources are distributed. Population should be the emphasis, not the size of a county, he said. The Gatundu South MP had accused the President of ignoring the region and focusing on development in areas that voted for the opposition. “As we enter 2019, you (voters) must think … our responsibility is not just to vote and after voting, we (the government that we form) take development to other regions. That kind of nonsense must stop,” he said at Thika Stadium on New Year eve. Residents said they want to see more projects being started this year and the old ones completed. They called on the leaders to ensure that work done was of good quality. Some members of Parliament have defended Kuria. Gichuki Mugambi (Othaya), Ngunjiri Wambugu (Nyeri Town) and Benjamin Gathiru (Embakasi Central) said Kuria’s anger was not directed at the President but at local leaders.  