The government has been urged to resume allocation of land in the disputed Mwea-Settlement-scheme which was suspended following the gunning-down of a resident during chaos. Embu council of elders, Kiama Kia Nyangi Ndiiriri has called for the resumption of settlement exercise of over 2000 people who had been allocated land in the scheme which was suspended by the government 9 months ago after one resident died after he and seven others were shot by police after chaos erupted in the process of the program. Led by their chairman Richard Gichangi the elders said the exercise which was suspended by the interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiangi and his land colleague Farida Koroney on April 19 last year should be resumed, as investigations into the cause of chaos are over. He said after the shooting of the residents they have been involved in several meetings with other stakeholders and the government officers during which they were informed the investigations are over. “The residents who had been allocated land in the settlement scheme should be settled there within a month to start farming. It has taken too long for the resettlement to be done yet all the problems touching on it has been finalized,” said Gichangi Speaking during press conference on Friday the elders blamed the county government of failing to facilitate the speeding up the settlement exercise after the underlying issues which were causing conflict were resolved. They called on the county government to come in and lead in the resettlement exercise as fast as possible arguing that further delay will instill anxiety in the residents and the beneficiaries of the land. When contacted for comments for Embu Governor Martin Wambora said they will focus on the issue immediately after the passing of the supplement budget soon. Matiang'i and Koroney suspends the Mwea settlement exercise on April 19 last year after a day after clashes left 8 people with gunshot wounds after protesters prevented beneficiaries of the land being shown their land. A man shot during a clash between police and squatters at Mwea Settlement Scheme three weeks ago has died. Kennedy Mutua from Kamwea who was among the eight people shot during the chaos and was shot in the stomach on April 18 died at Kerugoya Level 5 Hospital three weeks later.