A Meru county assembly member has pledged to donate half of his monthly salary as fees for poor students, winning praise from parents and teachers. Abothoguchi West ward MCA Partrick Muthuri yesterday donated boxes to candidates from the area who scored 350 marks and above in last year’s KCPE. He was speaking at Githongo Polytechnic. Muthuri said he was concerned by falling education standards in the area, hence his decision. The kitty he said will be managed by a committee comprising the clergy, youth and other representatives. The former Standard Group reporter based in Meru, launched the Muthuri Education Motivation Award (Mema) which he said is geared towards improving access to education. “I have bought boxes to the best performers in KCPE to reduce the burden for parents when schools re-open next month. It is not because I have a lot of money but because I want to motivate them to work even harder,” Muthuri said. As a kick-start, for the education kitty Muthuri gave Sh70, 000 which he said will go to children from the destitute families. All secondary school students from the area who manage to get grade B plus to A will be awarded laptops and smartphones. “The idea behind the launch of this award scheme is to celebrate hard work. “Laptops have become indispensable tools for students going to universities. They will use the smartphones as an educational resource,” Muthuri said. Among those who received a free box to store their items in school was Boniface Murithi who scored 404 marks out of a possible 500, at Kioru primary school. Murithi whose best score was 95 (in Mathematics) wants to be a chemical engineer. “I am happy because of the box and the recognition. I am happy because someone has recognised my hard work and it has motivated me to do even better in the KCSE!” he said. Eunice Muthuri, the head teacher of the school, hailed the MCA’s initiative. “It is good that the MCA is dedicating personal resources to help needy students. If all the MCAs emulated him the education standards in Meru would drastically improve,” she said. Members of the county assemblies across the country have in the news everyday demanding more money for allowances and foreign trips. They have engaged fist-fights too.