Deputy President William Ruto on Wednesday said politicians eyeing the top seat in the 2022 General Election must fight for it. He said no amount of endorsement would elevate the prospects of candidates with no development record. "There are those hanging around, waiting for endorsements. How do you expect to be endorsed if you have no agenda or programme for the country?" asked Dr Ruto. Ruto spoke at his Sugoi home in Uasin Gishu during a meeting with delegations from Bungoma and Busia counties. He said that candidates should seek leadership through political parties with a national outlook. The DP said he is ready to face off with anybody who wants to lead the country in 2022. "I am ready to battle with anybody. Let my competitors put what they have done for this country on the table," Ruto said. He said in Jubilee, they will find serious political contenders, and it would not be a walk in the park to those who are not well prepared. Leaders present at the meeting included Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka, Busia governor Sospeter Ojaamong, Bungoma Woman Representative Catherine Wambilianga, MPs Didmus Barasa (Kimilili) and Dan Wanyama (Webuye West). Others are James Lusweti (Kabuchai), John Waluke (Sirisia), Bernard Shinali (Ikolomani), Mwambu Mabonga (Bumula), Geoffrey Omuse (Teso South), Oku Kaunya (Teso North) and Oscar Sudi (Kapseret). The DP invited anyone who wanted to vie against him, saying he was not scared of competition. He said he would not support the proposed change of the Constitution if it will burden taxpayers. "Anything that seeks to impede the fruits of devolution will also be opposed. We want reforms that will make the counties thrive," Ruto said. Ojamoong said despite the challenges of devolution, counties have made a huge impact on the distribution of resources. He pledged to work with the DP in ensuring that more development is realised in the country. "We are past party politics. We want to see good working relationships forged among leaders," the Governor said. While lauding the government for the setting technical training colleges in Busia North and Busia South, Kaunya and Omuse said this will boost the the capacity of youths, thereby making them employable. Omuse, who was elected on an ODM ticket, said they will support Ruto’s 2022 presidential bid. "We want to work with a leader who is going to change the face of Kenya. A leader who is after empowering Kenyans. That is why I urge all leaders to unite and work with the DP," Ford Kenya MP Lusweti said. Wambilianga said Kenyans should rise above petty, visionless party politics. “We are now inclined to leaders who will make Kenya better,” she said. Click here for the latest political news