Marsabit Boys High School was closed indefinitely on Monday after ethnic clashes in which rioting students caused massive property destruction. Saku subcounty deputy director for education Safina Aga told journalists the administration block, a school bus and classrooms were destroyed. One student told the Star the feud arose from prefects favouring students from their community. He claimed prefects discriminate against students from other ethnic groups, creating bad blood. “On Monday, teachers held a meeting to bring together the conflicting groups. The problem was settled but two students began fighting again,” the student said. Two groups joined the fight to support their own, leading to destruction of school property. “There were no injuries but the school has been closed indefinitely. The reopening dates will be determined after the board of management meets,” Aga said. In October last year, at least 16 schools were closed following ethnic clashes in Marsabit before the beginning of KCPE and KCSE exams. The clashes, which were not in schools, left 16 people dead in five months and involved the two major ethnic groups in the county. In one attack in December, three people died, among them a chief who was killed by a mob and his body burnt. County commissioner Gilbert Kitiyo said the clashes were fueled by traditional battles, differences in lifestyle and vengeance missions. The administrator said chiefs had been informed about planned attacks but failed to act to please politicians. Four chiefs were summoned and investigated before local MPs were arrested in November. Some elders saythe clashes result from supremacy battles between the two feuding groups. An elder who requested anonymity for security reasons said some communities are trying to expand their territory. “We know the people fuelling these fights are our own leaders. In most cases, our leaders are elected on a tribal basis. However, they are supposed to be at the forefront of uniting our people and not causing divisions,” he said.