Title: Limpopo Champions League Artiste: Sho Madjozi Genre: Hip-hop/Rap Release: December 14, 2018   Sho Madjozi appeared to be nearly drowned in the glory of her cool-eyed hit Huku. And for a while, it looked like another story of one hot song, a firestorm of interest and fame but zero authority. She earned herself a spot at the hip-hop scene, even getting herself shows and concerts around the world, including Kenya. During her performance in Nairobi, a couple of things were very clear: She's successfully designed her own sound and exhibits maximum energy during her performances. Her latest release Limpopo Champions League extends what we already know about Sho and who she really is. On this project, her name, sound, style, energy and voice are all brilliantly rolled into one and for any keen listener, you can easily tell that the artiste's inspiration is quite extensive. It feels like Sho Madjozi is the fresh voice of rap music that can easily pass for pop. The production picks sounds and styles from the South African pop song rack and the contemporary hip-hop effect fusing it with an East African vibe as well as that from West Africa. It's diverse - a quality that is stated as soon as the opening track Ro Rali featuring Makhadzi kicks off. It's true Sho Madjozi has changed the fashion, music and the adlib game and she's truly owned it. The album features guest appearances such as Kwesta and Makwa offering their brilliance on Wa Penga Na?. Marioo & Aubrey Qwana join Sho Madjozi on the seventh track Changanya while pH Raw X joins on the eleventh Going Down. Nigeria is not left out, with YCEE delivering a verse on the closing track Wakanda Forever. Other essential tracks on the 13-track LP include Don't Tell Me What to Do, Huku, Kona and If I Die. If you are looking for a hip-hop album by an African artiste to party to then Limpopo Champions League is an outright winner. It comes complete with the energy needed to get listeners moving. On the flip side, it lacks cohesion and there really might be nothing truly redeeming about the whole project. Unfortunately, as much as she picks inspiration from different regions, every track sounds like the last and feels like Sho Madjozi ideas are running slim.  Star rating: 3 out of 5