The race for Ugenya parliamentary seat is expected to be tough even as ODM is pressed to conduct party nominations. The main contenders are former MP Dave Ochieng of Movement for Democratic Growth and Chris Karan of ODM whose election was nullified by Supreme Court. Daniel Juma, the executive director of Global Peace Foundation Kenya, has also expressed interest. The Supreme Court, on December 21, ordered the electoral agency to conduct fresh parliamentary elections in Ugenya after nullifying Karan’s win in August 8, 2017. In the 2017 elections Ochieng garnered 23,418 votes to Karan’s 23,765 votes, a difference of 347 votes. Karan’s election was nullified by a High Court in Kisumu, after a petition by Ochieng. He moved to the Appeal Court and later the apex court. Karan at the weekend dismissed those calling for ODM nominations, saying that he is the best candidate the party can trust to recapture the seat. Late last month, Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi maintained that the party will issue direct ticket to Karan. He noted that though the by-election, whose date is yet to be fixed by the IEBC, is open for all interested contestants, the party would stand by Karan. He added that anybody pushing for party nominations should revisit the party constitution as it also allows direct nomination. Karan maintains that the petitioner contested his win and not his ODM candidacy. However, Ochieng said he is only waiting for IEBC to declare the campaign timetable to hit the road. “As per now I can’t say much as I’m not in ODM. I am just waiting to hit the road,” he said. Wandayi dismissed rumours that the party might opt for another candidate. Karan has also received support from party leader Raila Odinga who, while at Siaya Senator James Orengo’s Masiro home on Boxing Day, urged Ugenya voters to vote him back. But Juma is optimistic that Raila’s sentiments were on a lighter note as that was not the official party statement. The small vote margin in the previous election between the two main contenders puts the number of seats under ODM at risk given. It could weaken the party at the grassroots. The aspirant, whose popularity has not been tested has made ODM to rethink the party nominations. He said that the party will not allow candidates from outside ODM to take the Ugenya parliamentary seat. Juma regretted that the party is yet to reply to his official letter requesting for nominations in Ugenya ahead of the by-elections. He told the Star that he will not buy the roadside declaration that there will be no ODM nominations within the constituency ahead of the by-elections. Mole The aspirant believes that party leader Raila will ensure democracy in the party and allow nominations in Ugenya before the by-election. “Raila is a democratic leader and I don’t think he will allow anyone to gag members based on selfish interests,” Juma said adding that he is still waiting for official communication from the ODM elections board that he officially addressed. “I am a live member of ODM and am not intending to use any other party in the Ugenya by-election apart from ODM,” he added. Francis Owino, who also contested in the 2017 elections, stated that he will not be contesting in the by-election. Owino said t he will support the party candidate in the by-elections. “I will be in the race in the general elections in 2022 but not now,” he said. However, the contenders will have to be careful in the manner in which they carry out their campaigns to avoid their elections being challenged in court. While nullifying Karan’s election, the High Court ruled that the MP benefitted from a perverted campaign that affected the integrity of the election. Justice Tripsisa Cherere said that Karan was not duly elected on August 8, last year, noting that Ochieng had convinced the court he could not seek votes during the run-up to the election, because his opponents had sustained a smear campaign. “These results did not pass transparent and verifiable election test,” Cherere said. Ochieng was linked to Jubilee Party and branded a mole. He was also linked to the death of Chris Musando, the ICT manager at the IEBC. The Constitution states that a by-election shall be held within 90 days after the election is nullified. Meanwhile Ochieng had also in August last year claimed that his life was in danger. Ochieng said he has received threatening messages over the impending by-election. The ex-legislator recorded a statement at the Directorate of Criminal Investigations on Monday morning. On August 16, 2018, the Court of Appeal dismissed sitting MP Chris Karan’s petition following the annulment of his election by the High Court.