Former Sofapaka captain and goalkeeper Mathias Kigonya has revealed his plan of gracing this year’s Africa Cup of Nations with Uganda Cranes after completing a two-year deal with Zambian side Forest Rangers. Kigonya parted ways with Sofapaka in mid-October last year and penned an year long deal with Kakamega Homeboyz the following month but left them without featuring in any competitive match after landing an improved deal in Zambia. The diminutive goalkeeper opened up of his plan of walking back into the national team in the forthcoming Afcon finals slated for June 15 to July 13 in Egypt, where upon a consideration by the technical bench he will face a tall order in dispensing first choice and skipper Dennis Onyango. Onyango who won the 2016 African-based player of the year award hinted of retiring from international duty after this year’s finals and Kigonya hopes to succeed him should the Mamelodi Sundowns gloveman stay true to his word. Kigonya last donned the national team colours in 2016 and he believes his displays in the Zambia with Rangers, who are 12th in the league, will catch the eye of Cranes’ coach Sebastian Desabre, thanks to its global exposure through SuperSport. “My immediate plan is to settle and aid my new club win titles here in Zambia. However, my biggest ambition and the reason behind my move to Zambia is to work hard and return to the national team and hopefully make it to the Afcon finals. I am determined to walk back into the national team which I believe is achievable through hard work,” said Kigonya. He termed the Zambian league as a stepping stone to lucrative deals in the future with the South African Premier League Soccer (PLS) topping his wish list. He, however, said he is not in a hurry in chasing such deals. “The Zambian league is very competitive and has a lot of exposure which I hope will open ways for me to join the South African league. Meanwhile, I am looking to settle and get playing time before I chase other deals later. I can confirm this will not be my final destination.”