Title: Never Grow Up - EP Artiste: Shane Eagle Genre: Hip hop/ Rap Release: December 28, 2018  South Africans are no strangers to hidden gems roaming their cities. One of the outstanding persons the country has managed to bring to the limelight is rapper Shane Hughes, 22, better known by the stage name Shane Eagles. He gained recognition after participating in a hip hop TV contest, "Vuzu: The Hustle," where he finished third. In his salad days, probably at 13, he recorded his first single. It was a journey that eventually saw him open for top spitter J Cole, and even better, release his 2017 debut LP 'Yellow'. Shane thought it right to close out 2018 by dropping yet another project to add to his catalogue. This could have been quite strategic in getting his tape more plays during a festive holiday, when the number of new releases is obviously low. A first listen, and any rap head will want to dig further and learn more about the conscious rapper. The EP, titled, "Never Grow Up", is a keen scrutiny of self in a warped and distorted society, and Shane doesn't shy away from giving an impressive show. He kicks off the project with "Homework As$Ignment", which introduces us to Shane's overall musicality, showcasing his ability as a lyricist over a broadly developed production. In a heat, Shane can deliver endless bars and switch up his flow when he feels like it. His instrumentations exhibit brilliance, borrowing from genres. To some extent, he tries familiar hats; you can hear moments influenced by or similar to those exhibited by stars like J Cole and Mac Miller. He gets all philosophical, offering his fanbase essential tracks like "Ap3x," "Chocolate Milk," "Ronnie Hughes," "Fears&Demons" and "Purple Rain". 'Never Grow Up' is an impressive extension of Shane Eagle's career. However, the only element that truly lacks is an authentic sound. Music enthusiasts will easily pick out the obvious similarities, but for any radical rapper in a world where artistes are releasing heavy projects, it's better to play it safe, even if it's for relevance.  Star rating: 3 out of 5