Rains are expected in some parts of the country for the next three days, even as the weatherman predicts less prestitation the rest of the month. A five-day focus released yesterday shows there will be rains in the Lake Victoria Basin, Highlands West of the Rift Valley, Central and South Rift Valley with sunny intervals. The areas include Siaya, Kisumu, Homa Bay, Migori, Kisii, Nyamira, Trans Nzoia, Baringo, Uasin Gishu, Elgeyo-Marakwet, Nandi, Nakuru, Narok, Kericho, Bomet, Kakamega, Vihiga, Bungoma and Busia counties. The north-western counties of Turkana, West Pokot and Samburu will have sunny intervals in the morning and afternoon. Kenya meteorological department acting director Stella Aura said the sunny and dry weather conditions expected in the pastoral areas of northwestern and northeastern regions will lead to a reduction in foliage and pastures for livestock. “A decline in water resource availability is expected to occur especially in northwestern and northeastern as well as some parts of southeastern lowlands,” Aura said. She warned of a potential health risk in northwestern and northeastern to be occasioned by high day time temperatures of between 30 and 40 degrees Celsius. “Problems associated with dust or dust storms may occur in some areas as result of dry conditions,” she said. Central Highlands including Nairobi, Nyandarua and Laikipia counties will have sunny intervals in the morning. Nyeri, Kirinyaga, Murang’a, Kiambu, Meru, Embu and Tharaka Nithi will have showers for three days before the light rains are replaced by sunny intervals. Marsabit, Mandera, Wajir, Garissa and Isiolo will have rains over few places in the morning hours before sunny intervals take over for the remaining two days. The Coastal Strip counties of Mombasa, Tana River, Kilifi, Lamu and Kwale will have showers for four days and sunny interval for the last day. In the afternoon, the five counties will be having sunny intervals throughout. Southeastern counties of Kitui, Makueni, Machakos, Kajiado and Taita Taveta will have sunny intermittently and rains over few places for a couple of days in the morning. In the afternoon, they will experience showers over few places for four days and sunny interval on the last day. Aura said Western Highlands including areas of Kitale, Kericho, Bomet, Nandi, Eldoret, Kakamega, Bungoma, Butere, Mumias and Vihiga are likely to experience generally dry conditions for most of the month. Others are Kisumu, Nyando, Siaya, Kisii, Busia, Kuria, Nyamira, Borabu, Narok, Kajiado, Nakuru, Naivasha and Nyahururu. It said light to moderate rains are however likely especially in the Lake Victoria basin and areas around Narok. The Highlands east of the Rift Valley including Nyeri, Embu, Kiambu, Meru and Murang’a and areas of Nairobi like Dagoretti, Kabete, Wilson, Jomo Kenyatta International Airport and Eastleigh are expected to experience sunny conditions throughout the month. “There is however a possibility of one or two days of light to moderate rainfall that may emanate from Western Kenya,” the focus says. Lodwar, Lokichoggio, Lokitaung, Moyale, Marsabit, Wajir, Mandera, Garissa, Garbatulla, Machakos, Makindu, Voi, Taita Taveta and Kwale, Mombasa, Mtwapa, Malindi, Msabaha, Kilifi and Lamu are likely to remain sunny and dry.