The following are governor Mike Sonko’s cabinet nominees whom he named last Friday a few days after Education executive Janet Ouko resigned. Education Lucia Mulwa: She is a Bachelor of Education degree holder from Kenyatta University and also has a master’s degree in Education from University of Nairobi. Mulwa is a former deputy director with the Teachers Service Commission. She has also been an assistant deputy secretary, staffing officer, principal in a secondary school, deputy principal of a secondary school and a TSC secondary school teacher between 1990 and 2011. She is currently the chief Education officer and was working with Ouko. Devolution Pauline Kahiga: She holds a Bachelor of Science degree from the United States International University. Kahiga was the general manager at Professional Digital Systems Limited before she joined the Nairobi county government. She has 16 years experience in senior positions in the banking industry. She was senior relationship manager at CFC-Stanbic Bank, manager of Move at NIC Bank, Africa Relationship Manager with Commercial Bank of Africa and customer service manager at Prudential Bank. She holds two positions at City Hall - chief officer in the Urban Renewal, Housing and Project Management department and acting county secretary. Finance Winfred Wangui: The chief officer, Economic and Planning, holds a Bachelor of Arts degree from the University of Nairobi. She is reading for a Master’s degree in Business Administration at Nazarene University. Winfred has worked with Cooperative Bank ( 2004-2017 ) where she rose from graduate clerk to product relationship manager. She joined City Hall last year. During her vetting, it was pointed out that Winfred has been involved in planning, implementation, and execution of budgets and is adequately grounded in county planning procedures and practices. The department has been severally affected by the numerous cabinet reshuffles, having had three CECs since 2017. Wangui has served with the first CEC for Finance Vesca Kangogo, Charles Kerich, who was in acting capacity, and recently with Allan Igambi. Igambi has been appointed to the Trade docket. Environment Sunjeev Kaur Birdi ‘Sonia’: Her undergraduate studies were at an Indian college before pursuing a Master’s degree in Business Administration at Sheffield University, United Kingdom. She directed her interest to media worked as a journalist at Radio Africa’s East Fm from 1998 to 2005. The Sinai Oil fire at Mukuru kwa Njenga in 2011 was a key invite which prompted her to join politics. In 2013, she became the first Kenyan-Asian woman to serve in the National Assembly as a nominated MP under the United Republican Party. Birdi was an active member in the parliamentary committee on Environment and Natural Resources. Health Stella Bosire Otieno: Stella holds a Bachelor’s Degree in Medicine and Surgery from the University of Nairobi and a Master’s in Global Health Policy from the University of London. She also holds a diploma in Reproductive Health from the Geneva Foundation for Medical Education and Research in 2016 and an MBA in Healthcare Management from Strathmore Business School. From 2013, Stella served as the vice chairperson of HIV Tribunal of Kenya and left in 2017 to work in the public sector at Avenue Hospital, Embakasi. During this period ( 2014-2016 ) she supervised a team of around 15 healthcare workers. In October 2016, she was appointed the CEO of the Kenya Medical Association where she served until last year. At the moment, Stella is a Medical Superintendent in Kiambu county.