Exactly one year ago, Kenya’s accomplished diplomat, high-flying and popular Foreign Minister Amina Mohamed was named CS for Education. She landed gracefully and hit the ground running. She slept in her official car as KCPE and KCSE exam papers were ferried to exam centres, ensuring the process was not compromised. She tramped to schools in remote areas to see first-hand the state of education, including ramshackle schools without walls and latrines. She doesn’t duck grilling by Parliament. Amina’s docket is fraught with thorny issues and competing interests — some might call it a poisoned chalice — demanding all her smarts and diplomatic skills. A lawyer with extensive UN and other international experience, she dedicated herself to helping President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto at the International Criminal Court. Largely thanks to Amina, they received procedural concessions. Their crimes-against-humanity cases collapsed before trial. Amina helped rebrand Kenya so it could host world leaders and conferences. However, the zeal and vehemence with which, as Foreign minister, she spearheaded the anti-ICC campaign has likely tarnished her standing with the UN and its agencies, to which she dedicated years. She had been a UN assistant secretary general until 2013. There was talk she might become UN Secretary General. Kenya nominated her to head the African Union Commission. She lost. “It was a pleasant surprise,” Amina said at the time of the Education appointment. The 57-year-old diplomat succeeded the abrasive Fred Matiang’i, a bulldog who instituted exam reforms to prevent cheating and improved textbook distribution to thwart cartels. “I followed heavyweights and will build on a strong foundation,” she told the Star in an exclusive interview. She already had international experience lobbying and building education partnerships. “I’m good at adapting,” she says of her own education that has included Kiev and Oxford and professional postings in Geneva and elsewhere. She has been influential in the World Trade Organization, International Organization for Migration, UN Human Rights Commission, UN HIV-Aids, the Commonwealth Platform for Girls Education, and the UN Environment Programme, among others. She was Kenya’s ambassador to the UN and other international organisations in Geneva from 2000-06. What’s your dream job? Where would you like to be in five years? “This is it, this is my dream job … It’s inspiring to give quality education to children,” Amina says. Fielding and finessing questions, the CS says, “It’s very challenging and exciting, education has an impact on every family,” reminding us that she too is a mother (seven children, five of them adopted). “Children recognise me at the mall, seeing the look in children’s eyes is special,” she says ... “I’ve never considered politics. I’ve been a civil servant for 33 years.” The Kakamega-born Amina — famously tall, regal and fashionable — lately made news because of an apparent about-face, suspending implementation of the touted new curriculum at the 11th hour for lack of readiness, training and resources. There was an uproar. Then Amina said it was on, piloting would continue. Her other headaches include the promised 100 per cent transition to high schools, shortage of classrooms, resources and teachers another problems. But it’s in train and with partnerships and redoubled efforts, Amina says it will be realised. “Today transition is 82 per cent, that’s an’ A’, we aim for 100 per cent, that’s an A-plus,” he said. On Thursday last week, she told Parliament it’s only 70 per cent but would increase. Then there’s the controversial primary school tablet/laptop promise. Critics call it a failure, an appalling case of misplaced priorities. Amina says digital literacy is succeeding, an enabler of the Big Four. “All new programmes and initiatives have challenges,” she says. She has to double down, reach out to more stakeholders and donors, and be more inclusive. She has to start work at 5.30am or 6am, leave late and do it again. And there are too many pregnant schoolgirls — Kenya suddenly woke up as many pregnant girls and new mothers sat last year’s exams. There’s student unrest and arson, problems with textbook distribution and embarrassing accuracy issues, obdurate teachers who threaten to strike, teachers who balk at delocalisation, a teacher shortage, especially in the terror-prone Northeast, insecurity in bandit and cattle-rustling areas. There are not enough classrooms, too many mud- or no-wall classrooms, not enough toilets and latrines. Teacher training colleges and technical training institutes are desperately needed. Greedy principals inflate fees and enrollment for state funds and resist digital registration that would curb it. “I can sleep peacefully knowing this government is committed to education and ensuring no child will be left behind,” Amina says. And what makes her toss and turn? Pregnant schoolgirls, deficient ASAL schools, need for more TVETs, lack of decent classrooms and hygiene, among others.