The new Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission boss Twalib Mbarak has vowed to fight the vice using all means possible. Mbarak was sworn in yesterday in Nairobi. He said he intends to make Kenya an inhospitable place for corrupt individuals. “Corrupt persons thrive on volatility. They exploit it for personal gain. I am committed to make the country free from corruption,” he said. He called for support from stakeholders including law enforcement agencies and the media. “I will need the support of all stakeholders, particularly the office of the Director of Public Prosecutions, the Directorate of Criminal Investigations, the media sector and citizens in general,” Mbarak said. He said that the EACC has capacity to fight corruption. “There is an increase in resources allocated in the fight against corruption. The human capacity has been strengthened and the silo mentality of law enforcement agencies is significantly reduced by the multi-agency approach,” he said. His administration will be marked by asset recovery, comprehensive audit and investigations, he said. He cautioned that corruption has become too complex. “Corruption is becoming multi-jurisdictional and complex, hence the need for strengthening and deepening relationships that will facilitate investigations,” he said. Read: We will come for you: EACC boss Twalib Mbarak tells corrupt as he takes office EACC chairperson Eliud Wabukala said his team will support Mbarak in his effort to make Kenya a corruption-free society. “I would like to assure Mbarak that my team of commissioners and myself will support you during your tenure. We remain steadfast to provide sound policy and strategic direction to the commission. My door remains open to you as we consult and engage each other,” Wabukala said. Attroney General Paul Kihara told Mbarak the fight against corruption is not a walk in the park. He urged him to collaborate with relevant. “So we will not expect you to have little wars, sibling rivalries between yourself and the DPP or DCI. What we expect is for you to work faithfully as you have sworn to do without fear, favour or discrimination and to work with the other agencies”, the AG said. He added that Kenyans will be watching as their expectations have not been fulfilled. Kihara said the Judiciary’s independence shouldl not be used for impunity. However Chief Justice David Maraga said the Judiciary should not be used as a scapegoat. “That one we will not allow. If you bring a hopeless case, we will say in our judgment why we are dismissing it and the public will know where to place the blame. And if you bring a strong case and we are the ones doing monkey business, the public will see”,he said. He said the Judiciary must be independent becasue the people have delegated their power to the three arms of the government and independent commissioners. Read: Who is Twalib Mbarak? New EACC boss unpacked He said no public authority should exercise all power. It has to be shared for there to be checks and balances to ensure accountability. Maraga urged the EACC to make sure the billions of shillings that are looted are recovered and put to good use to improve the lives of Kenyans. The fight against corruption willl only be won if is done within the Constitution and the law, the CJ said. That means the agencies involved in investigations must do a thorough job and bring cases to court when they are confident of getting a conviction. “Please bring cases to court when you are ready so that when we ask you to start the hearing the following day, you will be ready to proceed. A number of times we have adjourned cases because witnesses are not available”, Maraga said. He said the Judiciary is ready to deal with corruption cases. Click here for
the latest political news 