Four people were injured on Sunday night when hooded men attacked a Chinese road construction site in Shimbirey, 50 kilometres from Garissa town. Police commander David Kerina said public tips and swift response by police saved lives. Residents who spoke to the press on condition of anonymity said eight hooded militants, all armed with AK-47 rifles, kidnapped a man from a nearby village and ordered him to take them to the Chinese construction site camp. No one has claimed responsibilty. As they approached, they started shooting indiscriminately, prompting the workers, who are housed outside the fenced camp, to flee. Kerina said security officers guarding the camp returned fire and in 15 minutes repulsed the militants who fled to a nearby thicket. During the shootout, the wife of one of the guards manning the gate was shot in the shoulder She is admitted at Garissa County Referral Hospital. The other three, including the injured woman’s husband, were injured as they ran for safety. Zhanginei Engineering Group site director Sonia Lin said swift response from the security officers helped contain the situation quickly. “I was so terrified and had to lie down as bullets tore through the air. I quickly called my mum to tell her that we were under attack from bad people who wanted to kill us,” Lin said. Kerina said police are pursuing the militants who are said to have escaped on foot towards Dadaab area. “Tracking shows that quite number of them sustained bullet injuries and we are right on their heels. Soon we shall catch up with them,” the police boss said. He added,“There is top notch coordination from officers in and around the scene and with the help of wananchi, we shall ensure that these criminals are arrested and brought to book.” The company’s staff said they are vulnerable to attacks because they are not properly guarded. Meanwhile, three suspected al-Shabaab militants who were arrested in Hagadera refugee camp in Dadaab over the weekend have been transferred to Nairobi for further interrogation.They were armed with three pistols and several rounds of ammunition. Northeastern regional commissioner Mohamed Birik disclosed that one of them was a refugee. He said the weapons were to be used for an attack in Dadaaab.