  Among the various comments about a “referendum” — which
seems to have become another way to say “amending the Constitution” — there are
suggestions about sharing of offices among various communities. Some suggestions have included an inordinate number of jobs
for the (mostly) boys: President, two Deputy Presidents, a Prime Minister and
two Deputy Prime Ministers. The responsibilities of these posts are unclear.  DO MORE JOBS MEAN MORE INCLUSIVE GOVERNMENT? Having a lot of big jobs enables bargaining to take place if
it seems necessary to involve in government groups other those that “won” the
election. But it is not inevitable that this is how they will be used. The
media revealed that if NASA had won in 2017, the goodies of the office would
have been shared among Raila Odinga, Moses Wetang’ula, Musalia Mudavadi,
Kalonzo Musyoka and (at one point) Isaac Rutto. The Kikuyu and most of the
Kalenjin would have felt as excluded as the Luo, the Luyha and the Kamba seemed
to feel in 2017.  PARLIAMENTARY SYSTEMS In a parliamentary system, power is mostly with the Cabinet,
among whom the head of the government, the Prime Minister, is in theory a first
among equals. The collective Cabinet can be more representative of the nation, so
much more inclusive than the system we have now with one “big boss” in the form
of the single, directly elected, executive President.  Also, a broad ranging party might be more
inclined to support a leader from a minority group (though in Kenya it seems
more likely that leadership would go to whoever brought in the most voters,
thus again focussing on larger ethnic groups). But there are still winners and losers, and few losers will
be found in positions of power. And if a government includes people from other
political parties than the Prime Minister, it will usually be because the PM’s
party had not won enough seats in Parliament to govern alone. But to govern
alone is usually the ambition of parties contesting parliamentary system
elections. Some countries, it is true, make a virtue of forming government of a
number of parties, and having something of a national consensus. There is for
example often a big difference in the political cultures of a country like
Sweden, and the countries with Westminster systems, where one party is likely
to emerge with an overall majority. But even in Sweden, people have ideological differences, and
there may not be much enthusiasm for having all points of view in the
government. In last year’s Swedish general election, an anti-immigration party
won about 20 per cent of the seats. The previous main government party with its
allies held about 40 per cent and the main opposition party and allies 40 per
cent. Both big parties refused to partner with the anti-immigration party, so it
took months to form a government. In other words, in a parliamentary system, even a
proportional representation system, parties want to form government with a
majority, of course, but with as few people as possible from parties that have
very different ideologies and programmes, so that they do not have to give up
too much of their own programmes as the price for getting into office. And to get support they may also have to give up powerful
government positions to rivals, as Angela Merkel in Germany had to appoint a
member of the party that supported her to get into office as Chancellor (Prime
Minister) as Finance minister. The German coalition, like the Swedish, has a
narrow majority It may work differently if an election is won by a massive
coalition of forces among whom offices are planned to be shared (Moses Kuria’s
plan?). A bit like a one-party state.  Various
African countries used to be one-party states, a form of power sharing (if that
one party is inclusive). Citizens of those countries, if not their leaders, who
often became dictators, came to rebel against this arrangement.  FORMALLY POWER SHARING GOVERNMENTS Power sharing governments are those where not just the election
winners and their friends are in government. Sometimes this happens on an ad
hoc basis, perhaps precipitated by a crisis. This was true of the nusu mkate
government in Kenya: the government with Kibaki as President and Raila as Prime
Minister as the result of the National Accord, and constitutional amendment, of
2008. Sometimes the law requires it. In Fiji, under its 1997
Constitution, any party that got 10 per cent or more of the seats in Parliament
was entitled to a proportionate share of the seats in the Cabinet. The
resistance that this sort of idea faces is shown by what followed. Each main
party won one of the next two elections. Each also had enough seats to be
entitled to sit in Cabinet. Yet the leader of each winning party used
technicalities to prevent that happening. When eventually it did happen (some
time after the second of those elections) it seemed to be working not too
badly. But the government, and the constitution, were overthrown by a coup. Zanzibar recently adopted a power-sharing model, because of
a history of electoral violence. This involves the First Vice President being
from the party that gets the second largest number of seat, and the Second VP
can be from the President’s party. The President may appoint ministers in
proportion to the seats won by parties. In 2014, some academics said this had produced a government
in which politicians worked together to solve problems. But clearly, the system
has not cured all ills. The election commission declared the 2015 election, in
which the opposition was declared the winner invalid and directed a re-run. The
opposition boycotted this, and thus the other group, allied with the mainland
ruling party, won. A famous, and very different, example is Lebanon where the President
is always a Maronite Christian, the prime minister a Sunni Muslim and the Speaker
of Parliament a Shia Muslim. Ministerial posts are also shared between Christians
and Muslims. The process of agreeing who should hold how many posts in the
government has proved so difficult after the May 2018 election that there is still
no new government.  PROPORTIONAL REPRESENTATION Proportional representation is designed to produce a
parliament that reflects more accurately than the one we have now how the
people voted. If a party gets 40 per cent of the votes it gets 40 per cent of
the seats. It is usually more inclusive, especially because smaller parties
with scattered support are more likely to get seats than in our system. But, as
Sweden shows, it is not likely to ensure every group in society (whether ethnic
or ideological) will be represented in government.  DIAGNOSIS SHOULD PRECEDE PRESCRIPTION The difficulties Zanzibar has faced make one wonder whether
the real problem was differences between parties or lack of trust in the
electoral system. They also show people are desperately keen to win even in
power-sharing situations. Lebanon shows us that rigid power sharing systems may still
not solve problems. Lebanon also faces issues arising from changed balance
between religious groups, and less willingness of many to be pigeonholed into
religious categories. But there is fear of changing the system in case violence
is re-ignited. Power sharing can be designed, if it meets the problems that
Kenya faces. First, the issues are not about policies. Can you imagine a
Kenyan politician saying, “I don’t want to be in your government because I
don’t agree with your ideology”? Is it really even about communities? Do communities produce
leaders or leaders cajole, bribe or intimidate (the majority of) their communities
into supporting “our” person? Or is it all about leaders whose message is essentially “We
are so desperate to be in office that we will do almost anything to get there.
So you will only get peace if we all — at least of the big five — can be guaranteed
some nice, lucrative, prominent position.” People must not be deceived into believing that some ideas
will solve problems when they are neither designed, nor likely, to do so. 