Three years ago al Shabaab militants attacked a Kenya Defence Forces quarters in Somalia killing an unknown number of soldiers. Al Shabaab have claimed responsibility for the attack. "We are behind the attack in Nairobi. The operation is going on. We shall give details later," Abdiasis Abu Musab, al Shabaab's military operations spokesman, told Reuters.  Rescue operation underway in 14 Riverside Drive, Westlands on Tuesday, January 15, 2019. /MONICA MWANGI The militants rammed a suicide car bomb into the gates of the base in Ceel Cado, about 550 km west of Mogadishu, near the Kenyan border, before their fighters burst inside. The attack was reportedly launched against a company-size force of soldiers but it was not clear if this was the size of the Kenyan contingent in the area. A military company can range between 80 to 250 soldiers. Read: How two KDF soldiers survived El Adde al Shabaab attack Also read: Kenya continues to cover up death toll in 'bloody' El Adde attack- CNN report claims  People watch as operation continues/PATRICK VIDIJA Since the attack, the al Shabaab have vowed to get back at the Kenyan forces with many attempts that have been thwarted in the past. President Uhuru Kenyatta announced that Kenya will not pull out of Somalia, despite many soldiers being killed. He said KDF will pursue al Shabaab terrorists “to their last hideouts”. Read: KDF will stay in Somalia, says Uhuru Kenyatta Tuesday marked the third anniversary of the El Adde attack and al Shabaab terrorists made their way to 14 Riverside Drive in Westlands.  Rescue mission in Westlands /PATRICK VIDIJA There was confusion as DCI George Kinoti was seen trying to evacuate people and ushered in ambulances in the area. Vehicles were set ablaze as orange flames and dark smoke engulfed the area. Recce squad could bee seen moving around the building as others tried to enter and rescue the hostages. Sirens were heard along Waiyaki Way as panic rented the air. More on this: {VIDEO} Blast, heavy gunfire at 14 Riverside Drive, Westlands Several people at the building pleaded for help on social media with others contemplating the worst. "I am in 14 Riverside Drive hiding in a bathroom and we are under attack, we need help," @ronald_ngeno said. Another witness said "Still lots of intermittent shooting, and burning cars still exploding. I saw four armed men enter and start shooting."  SAFETY TIPS DURING AN ATTACK  Click here for the latest political news  