The Kenya National Examinations Council has cancelled the KCSE results of five secondary schools in Migori county. Last year’s results for Nyabisawa Girls in Suna East subcounty, Isaya Munde Secondary in Uriri, Kibuon, Lwanda Magwar and Ageng’a Mixed (in Nyatike subcounty) had been withheld to allow for investigations into suspected exam malpractice. The decision was announced in Nairobi yesterday by Knec chairperson George Magoha. On Monday and Tuesday, Migori director of Education Beatrice Otieno, principals, parents’ representatives and board members of the five schools met in Nairobi over the results. Knec chairman Magoha said results for 3,427 candidates were cancelled. He said the affected students and schools are from 16 counties of Machakos, Meru, Isiolo Turkana, Kericho, Narok, Bungoma and Kisumu. Others are Kisii West Pokot, Elgeyo Marakwet, Homa Bay, Migori, Garissa and Mandera. There was overwhelming evidence that the candidates in 44 centres were guilty of having been involved in examination irregularities, he said. Three other Migori schools - Sigiria, Komotobo and Nyankore - whose results were held pending investigations received them last week. Sigiria had 119 candidates with the best getting B+and 49 qualifying for direct entry into universities with C+ grade. The school had a mean score of 6.33 compared to 2017 when they had a mean of 4.39, with only sent eight students qualifying for university. Komotobo got a mean score of 7.9 up from 5.5 mean score in 2017. More than 45 candidates out of the 183 registered scored C+ and above to gain direct entry to public universities. “Nyankore had over 170 candidates who got their results, except for 77 who had irregularities in the English paper as they consistently gave the same wrong answer,” an officer in Migori said. Since English is a core subject, the 77 candidates at Nyankore had their results cancelled. Investigations indicate that all the 169 candidates of Ageng’a were involved in irregulaties. The school’s board of management chairperson Kennedy Akongo said they plan “to have all the 169 students affected enroll and sit the exams this year. “Besides the report by Knec, we have no other material against which to verify the contents but beginning now, we shall strive to get to the bottom of it as we reach out to the individual students affected,” he said.