Tanzania’s Simba’s experience in the prestigious CAF Champions League will not cow AFC Leopards as they launch their campaign for the SportPesa Cup starting tomorrow at the National Stadium, Dar-es-salaam. AFC Leopards coach Marko Vasiljevic said Simba’s participation in the Champions League will count for nothing when they confront each other in the quarter finals of the SportPesa Cup. Leopards will begin their quest to win their inaugural SportPesa Cup title against the star-studded Tanzanian giants but Vasiljevic believes the experience within their opponents playing unit earned from their continental sojourn will do little to stop them from sailing to the semi finals. The youthful coach led the playing unit in their first training session yesterday at the JK Park grounds and exuded confidence of clawing the limping lion who received football lessons from Congolese side, AS Vita Club at the State Des Martyrs, Kinshasa in their second group stages match where they fell 5-0 to put in jeopardy their hopes of emerging the best in Pool D. The reigning Tanzanian champions boast of having one of the strongest unit with notable stars like former Gor Mahia forward Meddie Kagere who has since formed a deadly axis alongside John Bocco and Emmanuel Okwi, banging goals at will, but Vasiljevic believes his charges are equally to the challenge. “I am not worried of Simba’s experience in playing high profile teams and matches in the continental tournament. It is not a threat to me or my players since we are aware of it and prepared to counter it. I am confident we will cruise past them despite their exposure and quality within their unit.” Although the 25-year-old Leopards coach admits to come up against one of the best teams in the region, he hopes to capitalize on their fatigue and replicate a 5-4 win reaped against them in 2017 during the first edition victory which handed them the green-light to play Gor in the finals. “They had a very tough match in Kinshasa and we hope to take advantage of their fatigue from the match and flights to reign supreme over them. Simba are a big club in the region but anything is possible in football.” Leopards will count on Simba loanee Marcel Kaheza for goals in the duel expected to attract a massive turnout owing to Simba’s following in the host city. Simba fans have made it a culture to fill the National Stadium to the brim in their home matches. Kaheza found a new lease of football life at the den albeit on loan after failing to break the Kagere, Bocco and Okwi axis and the diminutive forward. Meanwhile Kariobangi Sharks held their first training at the Boko grounds while debutants Bandari had their drills at the Police grounds. Sharks face Yanga while Bandari will take on Singida United.