The EAT- Lancet Commission report on Food, Planet, Health that was released on January 17 is cause for concern. A group of 37 leading scientists warns that our food systems now threaten our health and our planet. Modern dietary choices will exacerbate the global burden of non-communicable diseases. According to the report, unhealthy diets present a greater risk to morbidity and mortality compared to the combined morbidity and mortality from unsafe sex and substance abuse. More than 820 million people subsist on low-quality diets, which contribute to diet-related obesity, diabetes, coronary heart disease and stroke. Our food production systems pose a colossal risk to environmental quality. Animal and crop production accounts for 40 per cent of land use. Land use change owing to agriculture is the largest driver of land degradation and biodiversity loss. Moreover, food production consumes about 70 per cent of freshwater resources and emits 30 per cent of greenhouse gases. The slow death of large freshwater lakes such as Lake Victoria is largely due to eutrophication, or excessive nutrient loading, due to misuse or overuse of nitrogen and phosphorous in our farms. Hence, feeding a burgeoning human population on healthy diets, while maintaining a resilient ecological base is a most grave challenge. We must act to transform our food systems to reduce the effects on human health and restore ecological integrity. Such change will demand dramatic shifts in what we eat and how we produce it. The authors of the EAT-Lancet Commission report outline a starting point for such a shift. They describe a universal healthy reference for estimating positive health and environmental outcomes. According to the report the healthy reference diet comprises poultry, seafood, whole grains, fruits and vegetables. Evidently, this healthy reference diet does not include sugar, refined grain and red meat. The report notes that consumption of red meat is linearly related to mortality and risk of other health outcomes. Conversely, consumption of poultry and fish are associated with better health outcomes. One or two weekly servings of fatty fish, like Nile perch, might reduce chances of dying from heart disease by more than one third. The Omega-3 fats in fish protect the heart against the development of erratic and potentially deadly cardiac rhythm disturbances. Using the planetary boundaries framework, which was published in a seminal paper in Nature in 2009, the EAT-Lancet Commission focusses on the major environmental systems and processes that are impacted by existing models of food production. These are: Global climate, biodiversity, land use and land use change, freshwater (ground and surface), and nitrogen and phosphorous flows. The big question is how do we stay within food production boundaries — limit greenhouse gas emissions, biodiversity loss, nitrogen and phosphorous pollution, freshwater depletion and land degradation from agricultural production — while delivering healthy diets, which are abundant in vegetables, fruits, fibre, fish and poultry? While the report ventures into uncharted policy and lifestyle territory, it is the beginning of a defining conversation.  Alex O Awiti is Vice Provost and director of the East Africa Institute at Aga Khan University 