A senior manager of top Italian football club AC Milan is in Malindi for a 10 day holiday, and finding it "comfortable" so far. Mauro Tavola, the partnership director of the Serie A club, is staying at the posh Casuarina area. Word Is caught up with him enjoying his holiday at Barefoot beach camp, one of the unique tourism destinations in Magarini 23km from Malindi town. Tavola was at the resort for a two-day, one-night stay as part of his itinerary, and seemed satisfied with the environment of the camp. Journalists found him having lunch with three friends at the beach restaurant, which offers a view of the golden beach of Magarini. He looked relaxed, barefoot and casually dressed, wearing only a short without a shirt, and he did not seem to be in a hurry, though we learnt it was his final day. Apart from accepting a Word Is interview, Tavola also freely accepted to be photographed and offered his business card. “It’s natural, comfortable and silent,” he said, adding that Barefoot is famous because of the nature and services offered. He said Barefoot gave him time to relax away from his busy schedule and pressure while managing AC Milan back in Italy. “This is memorable, we sleep with the natural sound of the ocean. It’s fantastic to live without the pressure of work," Tavola said. He promised to return to Barefoot and if possible with team members of AC Milan, to come and enjoy the tranquility and pristine beach. Barefoot is owned by a Kenyan of British origin, Edward Aniere, and his wife Selma Mawani. It has five luxurious tents. It is a quiet place that offers guests time to relax away from home and quietly get time to swim and eat all sorts of meal in the natural environment. Apart from Tavola, other celebrities who have visited the Malindi resort town include billionaire Flavio Briatore, Harambee Stars player Macdonald Mariga his brother Victor Wanyama, Formula One driver Fernando Alonso, former Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi and British supermodel Naomi Campbell.