Embu macadamia traders are a bitter lot after rogue manufacturers   buy raw and immature nuts cheaply despite the ban on harvest and sale. The Nut Traders’ Association of Kenya (Nutak), through deputy National chairman John Kathangu yesterday accused some processors of  secretly approaching farmers in Embu and buying the nuts at a throwaway price of Sh50 per kg instead of Sh300. Kathangu, who was speaking to the  press at Tangier Hotel, said two processors had deployed  their workers in lorries in Embu to  buy  raw and immature macadamia. Kathangu said the illegal business  has been going on since December last year despite a ban of the harvest and sale of the nuts by the Agriculture and Food Authority  (AFA). The ban was issued byAFA’s Interim head of the directorate Richard Ndegwa in a letter dated December 10, last year. The AFA regulates the sale of nuts and oil sector  to ensure the production and sale of high quality  produce. The ban  is  effective until February 15, this year. “In view of the resolutions of the stakeholders’ consultative forum of February 2015 and invoking the provisions of AFA acts 2013 and crops Act 2013, the directorate notifies all dealers (mainly the marketing agents and processors) that the 2019 macadamia harvesting season will start on 15th February 2018 and close on November 2019,” reads the letter from the regulator. “All processors and marketing agents are requested to abide by this notice in order to minimize incidences of harvesting immature macadamia nuts,” adds the letter  which the Star obtained. The letter is copied to the Principal Secretary department of crops development, Director General of Agriculture and Food Authority, Agriculture CECs in Nyeri, Murang’a, Kirinyaga, Meru, Embu, Kiambu, Nut Processors Association of Kenya, Nat Association of Kenya, and Macadamia Growers Association of Kenya. Kathangu said the directorate ordered that the harvesting and the sale of the macadamia will only be done between February to November every year as they mature during this period. He said despite this ban the three big processors have been buying the produce in Embu and none of the buyers had been arrested. “We are wondering why the processors are buying the nuts despite the ban while they were served with the ban like all the other dealers. We demand that the police act quickly and apprehend the culprits to enhance quality harvest and sale of macadamia,” said Kathangu. They protested that market prices have significantly declined because some well-connected politicians use underhand tactics to export unprocessed macadamia. Kathangu said he suspected there could be collusion between the police and the processors who are doing the illegal buying of the nuts. He said failure by the police to arrest the illegal buyers the traders and farmers in Embu will stage demonstrations against AFA, the police and the illegal buyers to force enforcement of the law. Farmers said the situation demonstrates that the government is discriminating against farmers and condemning them to poverty while favouring criminals. Kathangu also asked AFA to either lift the ban or allow the harvest of the nuts throughout the year instead of allowing some dealers to buy the same while on the other side others were blocked from doing the same.