Popular Kenyan Boy Band Sauti Sol yesterday led other Kenyan artistes in paying tribute to the late super music producer Bruce Odhiambo at Nairobi Baptist church Nairobi. Unlike other caskets which are normally covered with flowers, Bruce's casket was designed with a Piano cover an indication that music was live for him. Artists sang songs, guitar tunes for the music icon. Sauti Sol told a tale of how Bruce Odhiambo offered his studio for them to record their award-winning album. Bien Aime told the congregation, “We have lost a father. We meet Bruce 10 years ago.” Other artistes present were Dan Aceda, Amos and Josh, Kidum, Pitson and comedians Churchill and Nyambane who said that artistes will organise a concert in honour of Bruce. His ailing mother Grace Abonyo was driven for her son's memorial service from the hospital. Led by the first lady Margaret Kenyatta, Nairobi senator Johnson Sakaja, political leaders also joined the family Bruce Odhiambo at his memorial service Senator Sakaja promised Bruce family child support and described him a dedicated person to the youths. "Because of the service Bruce offered to this country, his children will never lack anything and as a government, we will stand with them all the days of our lives." Read: Former Youth Fund Chairman Bruce Odhiambo dies at Nairobi Hospital In order to honour his service, the senator said he will introduce a debate in parliament to ensure that Kenyan music gets 60% airplay in our media. "The greatest tribute we can do is to seriously consider his talent and put our money where our mouth is. This will happen if our local artistes are supported and their music played must be local. Although the media houses are privately owned the frequency is public property. Bruce is said to be Uhuru’s close friend. In his condolence message, President Kenyatta said that Bruce, a former music producer, used his talent to develop businesses and institutions, some of which played a big role in mentoring the youth. “Bruce Odhiambo was a go-getter. He was a talented musician who joined hands with others to entertain Kenyans with the legendary Mombasa based Safari Sounds Band and Spartans,” said Uhuru. First lady Margaret Kenyatta described Bruce as a dedicated and skilful person in this country. "With his slogan 'its never that serious', Bruce always wanted to mentor young people and has worked so hard in the Beyond Zero brand building because he was always eager to learn new things," Margaret said. "In as much as we want to mourn him today, let us also celebrate his contribution in the creative art," she said Bruce will be laid to rest on Saturday in Koru, Kisumu county. Read: Singers pay tribute to Bruce Odhiambo Click here for the latest political news