An own goal by White Cap’s Miranda Romjin 15 seconds to the bell handed Governors Camp the Chairman’s Cup winner’s trophy at the Nairobi Polo Club yesterday. Comprising of handicap (0.5) Moses Wainga, Anthony Wahome (0), Kevin Kaniu (0) and Magda Jurkoweick (-1.5), Governors Camp, who started the game with fraction’s (F) deficit rebounded from a 2F-0 score-line at the breather to win the finals 3F-4. Wahome grabbed a double that saw him voted the tournament’s Most Valuable Player. This is his second MVP trophy this January after he was awarded the same gong during the Davis Cup as a losing finalist. “The match was very tight and was determined by a fraction. We hadn’t gelled well in the first two chukkas but we got back on our grooves in the last half of the match. Our opponents started very strongly reducing us to playing catch up and I must say the own goal was the icebreaker,” averred Wahome. Governors Camp had two substitutions on the final day as Wahome came in for commentator Jamie Hayward and Kaniu replaced injured Michael Camm. White Cap (Johnson Asenga (1.5), Phyllipa Gulden (0), Simon Muchene (-1.5) and Romjin (-1.5) will rue their missed chances in the third and blowing up their lead. Gulden was the first to pile pressure on Governors Camp, notching double in the first and second chukkas giving her side a 2F-0 advantage. On resumption, Wainaga narrowed the gap to 2F-1 but moments later Asenga cancelled his goal giving White Cap a confortable 3F-1 lead. After fierce exchanges executed from the far end (from the club house) of the 275m long and 145 wide pitch, Wahome brought Governors Camp back to the game with a soft field goal for 3F-2. The ball travelled slowly and it took the youthful and spirited Kaniu’s shielding off Asenga from the ball and eventually flipping over his pony to the ground. Governors Camp had seven minutes (fourth chukka) to turn around the game but their opponents were too tough to crack. Wainaga raced from midfield, beating the spirited defence of Muchene to score for 3F-3. After playing to a goalless five and a half minutes in the last chukka, Governors Camp pushed play to White Cap’s goal area. As the latter tried to clear the ball, a back hand from Romjin who was being tighly marked by Wahome sailed through the posts. This handed Governors Camp a 3Fp-4 win. On their way to the finals, Governors Camp eliminated Samurai 2-1F, while White Cap hammered Murban 6-2.