The
presidency is the topmost and ultimate prize of Kenya’s general elections and
competition for it stems from the notion that it is not only a good thing of
and in itself but a consequential political tool to possess. In
the 2013 and 2017 general elections, Uhuru Kenyatta convinced his political
base in the Mount Kenya region that because Raila Odinga could not be entrusted
with the presidency, electing him was crucial to protect and advance their
interests.  Put bluntly, the presidency
was a necessary tool to protect the existing share of pork for them and bring
more ugali and mboga home. Three
years into Jubilee’s presidency doubts begun to creep among Uhuru’s supporters
about his capacity and willingness to improve their welfare. The majority,
however, were willing to blame the Constitution and devolution for making it
hard for Uhuru to deliver the economic goodies they expected. Indeed
by the end of hisfirst term the situation was so gloomy in Central Kenya that
genuine concerns about voter turnout in the 2017 general election arose.  In my humble view, therefore, political
accountability entitles Uhuru’s supporters to question whether the Jubilee
presidency has delivered enough of the promised ugali na mboga and seek answers for any shortcoming. Gatundu
South MP Moses Kuria took refuge in a drunken stupor and party mood during the
New Year celebrations at Thika to question the practical value of Uhuru’s
presidency to Central Kenya, no one expected his utterances would generate the
political storm they caused, especially after the President responded in kind
and termed washenzi (fools) those
questioning his development record. Truth
be told, as much as I empathise with the conflicting obligations of Uhuru to
serve the whole country fairly and address the political expectations of his backyard,
I also understand the gravity of the issues being raised by MPs Kuria, Kimani
Ngunjiri (Bahati) and other leaders courageous enough to express concerns that
have long been expressed in whispers. To
most Kenyans , that leaders from Mt Kenya can complain over economic neglect
sounds like a cruel joke.  In the
circumstances, in defending the constitutional right of all Kenyans to
development and summoning the courage to dismiss two of his ablest and
passionate political mobilisers as washenzi,
Uhuru has confirmed the old refrain among his non-Gema supporters that unlike
his Kikuyu people, Uhuru is a good person. In
fact, in the wake of his handshake with Raila Odinga, if Uhuru were to cease
being Kenya’s President today (God forbid!) chances that many Kenyans would
remember him as a great president are as high as the probability that few of his
supporters in Central would remember him with the nostalgia the older
generation remember his father Mzee Jomo Kenyatta.  We should, therefore, thank Kuria and
Ngunjiri for opening our eyes to this reality. Whatever
the merits of the “washenzi” utterances it is obvious that their cardinal sin
is breaking the unwritten taboo of Kenyan politics that when a brother from the
neighbouring cave is calling shots in our jungle, it is bad manners to join his
rivals in questioning his development record. At the very least, you should
pretend all is well even as the pangs of hunger devour your homesteads. Now
that the taboo is broken, I can now contribute to this debate. First, whereas
the dynamic duo of UhuRuto might be Kenya’s undisputed political geniuses so far,
they are yet to demonstrate much capacity and imagination in running Kenya’s
economic affairs beyond the lazy strategy of throwing expensive loans at zero
or low productivity public projects. Second,
those Kikuyus who expected Uhuru would be the dominant political actor during
the Jubilee presidency the way President Mwai Kibaki outmanoeuvred Raila in the
Grand Coalition government have been shocked by the revelations that on balance
William Ruto has been the smarter partner. 
Third, the elected politicians from Mount Kenya who expected they would
acquire the special status that comes with presidential access have bitterly
learnt of a different reality as they scavenge for space in the crowded lobbies
of DP Ruto to seek small favours. Having
thus dispensed with the subjective matters at play, let’s interrogate the
concerns of team washenzi. If
government projects were synonymous with development, it would be difficult to
deny that Jubilee has done more than enough for Mount Kenya.  There are many completed and ongoing projects
to prove Jubilee has delivered what passes for development in modern Kenya —
dams, tarmacked roads, level 5 hospitals, sewerage works, power projects,
technical institutions, universities and village polytechnics.  Driving across Kenya, there are thousands of
projects to prove Jubilee cares about national development and it is nice to
see many townships and market centres are well lit. This
big picture of maendeleo across
Kenya’s countryside is well captured in official government statistics and
development agencies.  There is, however,
another economic reality in the overwhelming majority of Kenyan homesteads.  In a typical homestead, you would be lucky to
find one self-reliant person out of every 10 adults.  Many families struggle to secure three meals
a day let alone healthy food.  Thousands
of well-educated youths are wasting away in market centres and those who try
their luck in urban crime are quickly despatched back home in coffins. Even
the middle class is feeling the pinch. 
Nowadays it is hard to come across an African Kenyan without ties to the
brokerage networks of Jubilee who is thriving economically.  In short, the rosy picture of development in
official statistics is yet to impact on the lives of most Kenyans. The
way I see it, Central Kenya is no longer at ease because the people do not feel
the debt-procured maendeleo of
Jubilee, and politicians are seemingly clueless about this.  Projects are necessary to facilitate economic
production and wealth generation but Jubilee has tragically equated those initiatives
with development leading to neglect of interventions likely to improve the
living standards.  Even worse because of
rising Chinese debt procured to finance expensive projects of negligible value
an impoverished nation is being taxed more to pay such debts in order to ward
off the spectre of sovereign bankruptcy. What
does Uhuru have to do with all this?  A
lot in my humble view.  Whilst he cannot
be entirely blamed for the low calibre cabinets that have managed Kenya since
2013, for a leader with his ambitions, he ought to have insisted on appointment
of more capable Kenyans to run the critical ministries of Planning,
Industrialisation, Agriculture and Finance, without which Kenya cannot achieve
meaningful economic progress. In
a capitalist economy, the true role of government is not to buy unga, medicine, tablets and housing but
to enable them earn sufficient income to do such things for themselves.  Stated differently, the President’s
responsibility is to make capitalism work for the people as opposed to turning
the state into an economic enterprise politely called the developmental state. Compared
to Raila in 2013, Kenyans hoped that under Uhuru capitalism would work for
Kenyans and the economic progress began by Kibaki would continue.  That has not happened as the Jubilee
presidency has embraced state-led capitalism which, has evidently created
several billionaires among its ranks and brokers whilst genuine local business
people have been bankrupted by non-payment of bills for goods and services
procured by the national and county governments. It
is a pity that Kenya has invested billions of shillings in infrastructure
without creating new local millionaires and the economy has only managed to
produce minimum wage jobs in hospitality, private security, clerks, farmhands
and construction workers in agriculture and building sectors that many Kikuyu
youth detest. At
the same time the traditional economic sectors preferred by the Kikuyu such as trading,
transport, importation of merchandise, real estate and farming have taken a
hard knock from the policies of Jubilee. 
In such circumstances, some Kikuyus are justified to view themselves as
victims of Jubilee and Kenyans should try and understand the grumbling in
Central Kenya, despite the compelling evidence of the phoney maendeleo delivered by Jubilee.  *The writer is a
constitutional lawyer (kibemungai@yahoo.com).