The race for the Ugenya parliamentary seat on April 5 will be between former MPs Chris Karan and David Ochieng. The contest shaped up on Monday after ODM gave a direct nomination ticket to Karan to defend his seat. His election had been nullified on August 8, 2017, by a High Court in Kisumu. The Supreme Court on December 21 ordered the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission to conduct fresh parliamentary elections following a petition by Ochieng. The Court of Appeal dismissed Karan’s petition to block the anulment. The race is expected to be tough owing to the small vote margin in the previous election between the two main contenders. In 2017, Ochieng of the Movement for Democratic Growth garnered 23,418 votes to Karan’s 23,765 votes, a difference of just 347 votes. Ochieng was linked to Jubilee Party and branded a mole. He was also linked to the death of Chris Musando, the ICT manager at the IEBC. Daniel Juma, executive director of Global Peace Foundation Kenya, said his candidacy remains uncertain as ODM awarded the ticket to Karan. Juma had written to the party requesting nomination. He told the Star he will meet party leader Raila Odinga and decide on how to proceed. “I saw the letter from the party to the IEBC that clearly stated Karan was given a direct nomination ticket. I have until February 4 and 5 [to decide on dropping out or being an independent] but for now, just know I’m still in the race, “ Juma said. Karan’s confidence that he is the best candidate was bolstered by the direct ticket. He has backing from the party officials and members. Raila, while at Siaya Senator James Orengo’s Masiro home on Boxing Day, urged voters to vote Karan back into office. Both main contenders will cris-cross the constituency as they seek votes and sell their development projects. Francis Owino, who also ran for the seat in the 2017, said he will not contest in the by-election but will support the party candidate. “I will be in the race in the general elections but not now,” he said.