Fast-rising Kariobangi Sharks decorated their profile once again as a 1-0 win over compatriots Bandari at the National Stadium Dar es Salaam won them their first SportPesa Cup crown in their second attempt. Sharks made their debut in the three year old tournament last year bowing 3-2 to Simba in the quater finals at Afraha Stadium Nakuru but yesterday,the Shield Cup holders added yet another trophy to their cabinet after edging the ambitious Dockers by a sole goal. The lone goal scored by speedy winger Harrison Mwendwa in the 60th minute made the difference in the final which pitted two Kenyan sides and earned the winner a rare chance to host English side Everton later in the year in an international club friendly match. Mwendwa was named the man of the match for the second time in the tournament as he won the same gong in the opening match which they won 3-2 over Tanzanian giants Yanga. Sharks made a single change to the squad which ousted Mbao in the semis with coach William Muluya bringing in national under 23 midfielder Shaphan Oyugi for suspended semi final penalties hero, Sven Yidah. Bandari coach Bernard Mwalala retained the team that eliminated Simba in the semis. Unlike in the third-place playoff which curtain-raised for the final, where Simba dominated the game against Mbao, the two Kenyan sides were cautious in the opening half and the play was largely clustered in midfield as no side showed signs of blinking first. The hunger to lay hands on the crown and book a friendly with Everton was missing in the half as both sides sought to lock spaces rather than go for goals leading to an arguably balanced half. The keepers from either sides were largely untested in the half and when called to duty they proved equal to the challenge, guarding their area with zeal with their sights perhaps trained on the Golden globe fete. After a sluggish half,both teams depicted goal hunger with Sharks drawing the first blood in the final half through George Abege whose 46th minute long range shot nearly broke the deadlock but Farouk Shikhalo’s reflexes bailed the Dockers. Bandari quickly replied the danger through Abdalla Hamis but his sole effort was blocked by Michael Bodo with a last man timely interception. Playmaker David King’atua was the first player to be rested as Mwalala sought to beef his striking force replacing him with Darius Msagha in the 51st minute. Six minutes later,the restless Mwalala withdrew Abdalla Hassan for Brian Otieno in an attempt to break Sharks watertight defence. Barely two minutes after the changes by Bandari,Sharks scored the opening goal through Harrison Mwendwa who pounced on a long pass from Duke Abuya and sprinted past Nicholas Mejja to slot the ball past Shikhalo. The diminutive winger would pave way for skipper Erick Juma on the left flank. The lone goal by the former Mathare United man would prove the difference between the two sides at full time before assuring them a cash prize of ksh 3milliom and a friendly match with Everton late in the year. In the individual awards Abuya won the Golden boot as his brace against Yanga was enough to make him the second recipient of the award after Meddie Kagere won the previous editions. Bandari’s midfielder William Wadri was voted as the tournament’s Most Valuable Player.