Politicians eyeing the Embakasi South MP seat are holding strategy meetings for a by-election even before the seat is declared vacant. National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi is expected to issue writs declaring the seat vacant by Friday. His action follows the Supreme Court nullifying the election of Julius Mawathe. With a brusing battle expected,  hopefuls are scheming how to capture the seat from the Wiper point man. Comunities in the constituency are plotting to field one of their own in the poll that must be held in 90 days. The predominant Luo, Akamba, Kisii and the Luyha want one of their own to toss their hats in the ring. Former MP Irshad Sumra Mohammed, who successfully challenged his electoral victory at the Court of Appeal, has been travelling the constituency and holding meetings to consolidate his votes. The ex-MP who ran on an ODM ticket hopes to exploit the party’s dominance in the area to recapture the seat he lost to Wiper’s Mawathe. “The victory was mine, but it was stolen from me. The courts affirmed this position. I am going back to the people to confirm their endorsement,” Sumra told The Star yesterday after meetings. FACING NEW CANDIDATES However, Sumra’s popularity faces a major test from a new entrant, Rashid Minyong’a, who is seeking the Jubilee Party ticket to turn the tables on the Opposition in Embakasi South. A veteran politician who has ran unsuccessfully for the South Mugirango seat in Kisii county has decided to shift his political base to Nairobi following requests from the residents. He has been meeting interest groups to prepare thew ground for his entry. Minyong’a, a Kisii, one of the dominant communities in the constituency, wants to use his slum improvement projects to penetrate the rich-vote electoral area. “I have listened to my people and I have heard their cries. I have humbly accepted their request to represent them in Parliament,” Minyong’a said. However, Mawathe who has maintained a low profile after he was thrown out of Parliament by the court, has been holding night meetings with his supporters to scheme how to retain the seat. The Supreme Court nullified the election of Mawathe in December last year. A ruling delivered by the court said that the results declared after the August 8, 2017 elections were unsupported by any evidence. It held that the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission was unable to show the contents of the original form 35A which cast doubt on the accuracy of Mawathe’s declaration as winner. PLAN TO WIN BACK SEAT Over the weekend he held a series of closed-door meetings around the constituency to reassure supporters that he will recapture the seat. He is expected to fly the Wiper flag in the poll. However, the  handshake deal between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition leader Raila Odinga is likely to complicate the equation for him and Sumra.