Six Jubilee MP have come to the defence of embattled Deputy President William Ruto after Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i was made coordinator of all State development projects. The MPs from Central Kenya say Ruto is part of the Executive, contrary to perception that his powers had been trimmed. The MPs are Martha Wangari (Gilgil), Wanjiku Kibe (Gatundu North), Patrick Mariru (Laikipia West), Kuria Kimani (Molo), Charity Kathambi (Njoro) and George Kariuki (Ndia). They spoke during the graduation of more than 150 youths in business studies in Gilgil town on Saturday. Wangari said they were united in Jubilee, and behind Ruto. She said though the President and Opposition leader Raila Odinga were working together, it never meant that Ruto was sidelined. Wangari said Ruto was part of the Presidency and his powers had not been reduced. “We know the handshake is a good thing and it has been embraced by all leaders. Our Deputy President has not been sidelined as some leaders want us to believe,” she said. Read: Uhuru trims Ruto’s power in new order Wangari said they had heeded to the President’s call to stop early politics and concentrate on building the nation. Laikipia West MP Mariru said the first handshake in the country was done by the President and his Deputy. He said President Uhuru’s partnership with DP Ruto could not be overshadowed by the handshake with former PM Raila. “Ruto is our deputy party leader and there is no way Matiangi’s new role exceed his [Ruto’s] powers to lead the country,” he said. Mariru claimed there was a plot by some leaders, whom he did not name, to break Jubilee apart. He said such plans will fail. Ndia MP Kariuki said all Kenyans should endorse the handshake, but it should not be used by some leaders to ascend to power. Kathambi and Kibe said Kenya was now peaceful and called on Kenyans to respect one another and live as brothers. MP Kimani lambasted the Judiciary for making “useless” rulings. “How can courts spend time ruling on hijabs yet what we want to hear is how corrupt individuals have been convicted for looting public funds,” he said. Read: Uhuru has made constitutional change without referendum - Moses Kuria Click here for the latest political news