The anti-crime fraternity got a third brother 10 days ago. The arrival of Twalib Abdallah Mbarak at Integrity Centre should embolden the brotherhood. The fraternity has the courage to confront the lords of impunity; these are economic terrorists. Offices and accounts of the terrorists are known, but they have so far been spared the crackdown. Conscientious investigators can expose, arrest, charge and prosecute the suspects. Some of the suspects are elected leaders. Some are their appointees and brokers. They work with complicit lawyers and banks. Economic terrorists assume corruption is a legitimate way of accumulating wealth. They steal from the vulnerable. They threaten the principled. If the system cannot prosecute the suspects, then why can’t KRA tax proceeds of plunder? The Controller of Budget can also make an allocation for corruption. Sham investigations, Friday arrests and make-believe prosecutions are not deterrents. The suspects remain careless and anarchic. They flaunt proceeds of corruption. They threaten whistle-blowers. Early this month, suspects from a county in Western reportedly recorded statements on the plunder of public funds. The first reports of corruption from this county were made in 2014. The Auditor General annually confirms these suspicions. “‘Baba ‘Nani’ and others went to Nairobi to record statements. They carried boot loads of cash.” The cash was withdrawn from known bank accounts. The statement came from a suspect’s wife, speaking to a family friend. She did not think her friend would share the suspects’ feeling of entitlement. The suspects have committed economic genocide. But they are using proceeds of corruption to protect themselves. You cannot arrest, charge, prosecute, and convict someone who has stolen Sh2 billion unless the suspect is mean. About 10 per cent of the loot can manage suspicions. The public expects expedited convictions. But Chief Justice David Maraga, for now, is blamed for delaying justice. The claim does not, on its own, however, explain the crisis of justice. It does not excuse rising economic terrorism. A facilitated Judiciary can fight economic terrorism. But, what if investigative agencies are beholden to economic genociders? What if system infiltrators hide and dilute evidence for a fee? The security agencies responded fast to terrorism at 14 Riverside Drive last week. Why can’t investigators handle, known and knowable, economic genociders with equal zeal? Sniffers dogs are unleashed on shoppers at malls. Can police sniff bootloads of cash at Integrity Centre, for example? Freezing accounts does not help; pillow banking is trendy among terrorists. The trinity — DCI George Kinoti, DPP Noordin Haji, and the latest arrival, Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission CEO Mbarak — should devolve fear of accountability. The time for complicity in crime is over. But can massive looting of public funds continue for so long, without the knowledge county security intelligence, criminal investigators and public prosecutors? For each of the brothers, there is a message: Mbarak, Integrity Centre has senior officers who protect corruption networks. Call them out within your first 100 days at the EACC. You made the promise. Haji, your office should stop automated responses to serious issues: “Thank you for contacting the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions’ Complaints and Compliments Division. I have the instructions of the Director of Public Prosecutions to acknowledge receipt of your email addressed to this Office. The contents there-in have been noted.” Your predecessor, Keriako Tobiko, left this irritating template in your office. Kinoti, wake up your county officers. They should take the cue from your good work. Regional coordinators and county commissioners have failed the President. The President, no matter how angry, cannot fight corruption alone in the 47 counties. It’s not only his legacy that’s in jeopardy. You, the citizen, should account for why you elect thieves. The piglanders steal your maize at night, then sell it to you at a quarter of the market price. kendowuonkendo@gmail.com