Gospel star Mr Seed is no longer signed under Bahati's EMB record label. The Celebrate hitmaker announced this in a lengthy Instagram post. "After two successful years being signed under EMB records, I have finally decided to go independent and be my own artiste," he wrote. "This is for the sole purpose of paving way for other young and coming artistes that Bahati has been taking in that need more the platform and support that EMB have offered to me and can offer. I also in return would like to nurture other upcoming artistes for it has been a dream for too long now to do something about the talented young artistes that need that just one push to realize their dream." Adding: "Bahati and I still remain brothers and will always wish him the very best in everything he does. If there will be other stories that will rise up, I will address them to everyone coz am already getting words on the streets that are not pleasing to my ear. We start 2019 on a high note." In an interview with Word Is, Mr Seed said, "I left EMB for growth. I've decided to go solo. Not planning to sign with any record label anytime soon." A close source to Bahati and Mr Seed told Word Is the Mama hitmaker has been underpaying his artistes, and during the New Year's event that went down at Thika Stadium, "he used security forces to eject Mr Seed's girlfriend and her father from the event". We called Bahati for a comment but he hung up. We contacted Mr Seed and he laughed, saying, "I can't comment on that. I don't want to talk about anything concerning Bahati." Adding, "There's no blood between us. I have no issue with him, unless he does. He is my brother. I just wish him the best in everything. Right now I just want to focus on myself and music." Asked whether it was a publicity stunt, he said: "I'm a very honest and straightforward person. I can't pull publicity stunts when it comes to work. There are things I can't joke with." Nimo, Mr Seed's girlfriend, told us, "I support my man's decision to leave EMB and support him. He's capable and I believe in him." Responding to allegations that she and her dad were ejected from Bahati's event, she said, "Let me not comment about it because that's something that is private." Adding, "We should just dwell on the positive side and not negativity. I have no issue with Bahati and his wife Diana."