For success to occur in 2019, you must be strategic. You may need to be mindful of how you use your resource or change the way you do things. The proper management of key resources will determine how your year plays out. Your productivity depends on it. In a conversation with Jezzabelle Rivera Ortega, a leadership coach from Puerto Rico, she shared with me a concept she had developed to help people keep their focus and achieve their goals. Her program is called: The TEA Approach to Productivity. It’s an effective program that helps people to maximize key resources; she has used this tool to help her clients for many years. Ortega believes that to maximize your resources and increase productivity, you must manage three things: Time, Energy and Attention (TEA). She is convinced that this three elements form the rudder of the success boat. Let me explain. Time: This is a finite resource and it’s often wasted. But sensitivity to time is one productivity factor. What do you do with your time? Who do you spend time with? What are your plans and goals for your time? Do you value your time? The degree to which you value your time is the degree to which you’re productive. Your activities within the frame work of time take you closer to or further from your dreams. Value for time gives you the energy and creativity to create effective work systems. Consequently, your productivity increases with time. Energy: In my view, energy is everything. Your level of productivity depends on your level of emotional, psychological and physical energy. So, it helps to consciously take steps to build and keep your energy up. Those who ignore the role of energy in productivity find it difficult to sustain a good work flow. Interestingly, they expect the best results on low energy. It doesn’t work that way. High levels of productivity require high energy. Low levels of productivity results from low energy. The lack of drive gets little or nothing done. Someone needs to have the drive to push until results show. Productivity will increase when drive or energy increases. Attention: Ortega describes this as mindset – the thoughts that command your actions; the thoughts that hold your attention and determine what you do. Here, power thoughts sustained in your mind would increase productivity. Yes, thoughts fly through your mind all day long, but those thoughts that hold your attention over time, determines your level of productivity. Email: smpamugo@gmail.com   