The 2018 Kenya Premier League runners up Bandari will debut the SportPesa Cup against Tanzania’s Singida United in the opening match when the third edition gets underway from January 22-27 at the National Stadium, Dar-es-salaam. The dockers will make their maiden appearance in tournament courtesy of their last season’s displays and are expected to open the week-long contest against Singida on January 22. While reacting to the draw released yesterday, Bandari’s Chief Executive Officer, Edward Oduor, expressed pleasure for being drafted into the tournament. “We are happy to be part of the tournament and ready for any team.” Another Kenyan outfit Kariobangi Sharks have a tough opener against Dar-es-Salaam-based and former Tanzanian champions Yanga SC. Sharks made their debut last year and earned a ticket to the third edition by virtue of being the SportPesa Shield Cup holders. Meanwhile, reigning champions Gor Mahia will launch their title defence against Mwanza-based Mbao FC on January 23 at 2.00pm before paving way for last edition’s beaten finalist Simba SC to face bitter rivals AFC Leopards at 4.15pm. The semi-finals are expected to be played on January 25 while the third place playoff match will be staged on the final day at 2pm Tanzania Football Federation’s competitions manager Salum Madadi said all preparations for the tournament are complete and urged all football fans across the region to turn up in large numbers for the matches which he projects will be exciting and competitive. “This year’s competition is not one to be missed by all the local football fans. We are confident our teams will perform well and ensure the tournament remains here at home,” said Tanzania Football Federation’s competition manager, Salum Madadi. The winner of the tournament will host English Premier League club Everton FC in their home country for a friendly match. This will be the second time that Everton will visit East Africa after their first tour of Tanzania in 2017, where they played a friendly with the inaugural tournament winners Gor Mahia. “Based on these fixtures, we are in for an exciting football week in Dar. I urge fans, sports lovers and families to turn up in large numbers to support growth of regional football,” said SportPesa’s chief marketing officer Kelvin Twissa. The tournament has been billed by local football pundits as a major stepping stone to international careers after several players including former Gor Mahia striker Meddie Kagere and Ugandan defender Godfrey Walusimbi attracted lucrative offers following their exemplary display at the second edition of SportPesa Cup, formerly known as SportPesa Super Cup held in June last year in Nakuru. Kagere now plays for Simba SC while Walusimbi is based in South Africa where he plays for Kaizer Chiefs.