AFC Leopards returned to winning ways in battling fashion as they beat Chemelil Sugar 2-1 yesterday to move back into the top half of the table. Leopards had gone two matches without a win, leaving their fans with fraying nerves but a 30th minute goal from Jeffery Owiti and a deflected effort 15 minutes into the second half by Eugene Mukangula gave them a 2-1 win. Chemelil grabbed a consolation from the spot with Philip Muchuma converting after a handball by Robinson Kamura. Leopards are now up to seventh in the standings with 10 points while Chemelil fell to 15th with seven points. Bandari hit the summit after they piped visitors Posta Rangers 1-0 thanks to a 56th minute strike by Hassan Abdalla. The win improved the dockers point tally to 18 from eight matches, one above second placed Mathare United who have a game in hand. Meanwhile, Zoo Kericho coach Sammy Okoth rued a lapse in concentration in the dying minutes of their match against Kariobangi Sharks as his side conceded a late goal to settle for a one-all draw at Kericho Green Stadium. Zoo took a 33rd minute lead through Bernard Odhiambo and were headed to their second win of the season but Sharks restored parity in the 87th minute through Sven Yidah, a goal which Okoth feels his side would not have let in had they stayed keen in defending. “We played well and managed to contain Sharks who were are little bit stronger. A lapse in concentration in the last minutes of the match cost us the three points. We also squandered clear cut chances and missed Chetambe in the midfield which affected the supply of ammunition to our forwards.” As Okoth lamented on the late goal he conceded, Sharks coach William Muluya expressed satisfaction with the point he collected which maintained their unbeaten run in the season. “It was a tough match I have never collected maximum points and I have to come up with a strategy in bringing the jinx to an end. Zoo were organized especially in defending after scoring but I thank my substitutes who did a good job in second half and salvaged a point.”