Any African country without recognised independence
has a wound on the body of Africa and whole world. In this particular instance, Somaliland is a country
seeking recognition of her independence, not just from Somalia but Kenya,
Africa and the world, whose integral part she is. Tragically, independence of Somaliland continues to be
unrecognised, despite her possession of many conditions that qualify a country
for independence – internal and external peace, stability and economic growth,
which many independent countries don’t have. While Africa and her counties suffer wounds from war,
poverty, corruption and negative ethnicity, no country would cure them without
independence. Indeed, independence is the key to heaven on earth for any
country that is claimed by another. Somaliland enjoys peace and development but is denied
continental and international recognition, freedom of international business
that ultimately subjects her to economic and diplomatic sanctions, which result
in underdevelopment, abject poverty and endless problems. Precisely because denial of independence to any
African country is a setback to the whole of Africa, one can’t fathom why the African
Union is yet to recognise Somaliland as independent. I dare believe that had
Somaliland been a European state, she would long have been helped to become
independent. Why then has Africa not recognised independence of
Somaliland? Is it because it has not applied to the AU? Has current AU chairman President Paul Kagame visited
Somaliland to judge whether her de facto independence should be augmented with
de jure independence? Why is he looking the other way when an African country
is suffering slow death from denial of lack of diplomatic identity and right of
survival? Can the world recognise Somaliland if African
countries do not lead the way? Has the West not recognized Somaliland because African
countries have not? African states should first recognise Somaliland for
European countries to follow suit. And no one should listen to the talk of
interfering with Somalia’s internal affairs. When former Soviet Union disintegrated, all its states
became independent such as Armenia, Latvia, Moldavia, Lithuania, Georgia, Azerbaijan,
and Tajikistan. Others had absolutely no problem assuming their new
independence including the international community. Equally when countries from
the former Yugoslavia such as Serbia, Croatia, Montenegro, Kosovo and others
split from former, none had problems being recognised as independent by
international community or African countries. Why then do we have issues with
Somaliland? Are some countries more equal than others? The international community is refusing to acknowledge Somaliland in order
to force her into a forced second marriage with Somalia without solving
problems that killed their first marriage. Worse, how can it be forcing a
peaceful land into a ball fire to be destroyed as Somalia is self-destructing? Forcing Somaliland, a country in total peace, into
Somalia without first ending the war in that land, is like forcing refugees
escaping from the war in Persia back into the burning country without first
ending the war. Does it make sense? Neither international community nor African countries
should play with the fate of Somaliland, the way Western and African countries
played with the fate of Libya. Had Africa taken a strong stand against
destruction of Libya by the US and the UK, that country would still be
one today. The way Western and African countries
played with the fate of Libya is the way they are playing with the fate of
Somaliland by denying her recognition. Suppose she radicalised and became
allies with al Shabaab? When countries demand recognition of their
independence, it is together with the integrity of their boundaries, not with
territorial claims upon their neighbours. Fortunately, Somaliland has no
ambition to annex Somalia or any other country. While independence of Somalia is recognised, despite
her territorial claims upon Somaliland, Kenya, Ethiopia and Djibouti — as
symbolised by the five stars on her flag — Somaliland makes no territorial
claims on any country. Why then deny her independence? Most of the 10,000 Kenyans working and residing in
Somaliland would be happy if Kenya could recognise Somaliland and open an
embassy in Hargeisa to take care of their interests.