In a hard-hitting, no-holds-barred account of the events leading to the bombing of the Nairobi US embassy in August 1998, then US Ambassador Prudence Bushnell blames the attack on Washington’s poor decisions. The blast killed 213 people and left over 5,000 others injured. Bushnell wonders why, despite the information available to US security agencies, Washington failed to keep the embassy safe. The book, titled, Terrorism, Betrayal & Resilience:  My Story of the 1988 US Embassy Bombings, is published by Potomac Books, an imprint of the University of Nebraska Press. It was released in 2018. Bushnell observes in the book that Osama Bin Laden had personally chosen the US embassy in Nairobi as a target because it was accessible, it housed the US embassy to Sudan, and it was headed by a female ambassador, whose death would provide more media attention. Yet, her repeated appeals to the State Department in Washington for security assessments and the relocation of the embassy went unheeded. “Like all other US ambassadors,” Bushnell writes, “I had received a machine-signed letter from the President of the United States underscoring my responsibility for the security of all Americans in Kenya (except those under military command). I took it seriously enough to go outside of the chain of command to address Albright directly.” When the letter to Albright was leaked to the press, Bushnell was under fire from her seniors. “I was trying so hard to do things right, to lead as best I could under terrible circumstances, and now I was being taken to task, in that ever-so-subtle way that can drive you crazy, for a leak that had occurred in Washington. I had wept for others’ pain. This time it was all about me,” she recalls. In 1997, a man walked into the US Nairobi embassy to report that the building would be bombed, but the security agencies in Washington called the informer “a flake”. Bushnell was further advised to stop sending cables regarding security concerns.  She refused. “It stung my ego to be depicted as someone who wrote ‘emotional’ letters ‘begging for help,’ perceived as a ‘nuisance’ and ‘obsessed’.  I was also annoyed that nowhere did anyone note that I had been right. We were vulnerable and in danger. Far easier to paint the victim as kook.” The Clinton Administration’s lukewarm response angered Kenyans and President Daniel Arap Moi’s government. The government had requested for $150 million to deal with the disaster, but the Clinton administration reduced this figure to about $30 million, from which Congress approved $37 million, far less than the Kenyan government had requested. To the chagrin of the victims and other Kenyans, the money took over five months to arrive in Nairobi. President Clinton’s unfeeling response to the tragedy added salt to injury. Bushnell recalls that when Clinton called her on the phone, his instruction was to the ambassador to ensure that the perimeter wall of the embassy was secured. When Bushnell insisted that more bodies were being retrieved from the building, Clinton repeated the same message: “Oh…well…okay. But as soon as possible, secure the perimeter!” Bushnell observes that after the bombings, US-Kenya relationship was never the same. She notes that her conversations with President Moi before the bombing had been “frank and candid.” They saw one another frequently and argued a lot. However, after the bombing, their interactions were “stilted and often unpleasant.”    The Clinton administration’s icy distance hurt Moi’s pride, and the paltry congressional responses to funding requests hurt his image.  “Thank goodness for Sally Kosgei, the Permanent Secretary at the Foreign Affairs Ministry, who kept our bilateral issues on track and our relationship ever cordial,” Bushnell observes. The book is a must-read for those interested in the inside story of the 1998 Nairobi US embassy bombing.