Tusker coach Robert Matano has challenged his players to be more consistent if they are to remain among the contenders for the Kenyan Premier League title. In his post match remarks after seeing the brewers come from behind to edge Chemelil Sugar 2-1 at Ruaraka grounds yesterday, Matano maintained that the league is still open “I am happy with the performance of the team especially after coming from behind to pick all three points. The challenge now is to show more consistency, which will help us keep in touch with the others,” said Matano. The coach also rued the injuries that have plagued his side with defender Justine Omary the latest casualty. “We have been unlucky with injuries and that has affected our performances due to lack of cohesion as we change players every now and then. However, I am happy that (Boniface) Muchiri and (Mike) Madoya scored after coming back from a layoff.” The brewers are now third with 17 points, three behind leaders Mathare United. Chemelil, who remain 14th, started the game on the front foot and would have taken the lead in the second minute but Musa Oundo’s header was cleared off the line by Jackson Macharia with the Tusker shot stopper, Emery Emuvigure well beaten. Tusker were disjointed going forward with Madoya and Amin Muzera left to feed on scraps. The Chemelil pressing system forced Emery into a mistake in the 16th minute when his attempted clearance fell to Philip Muchuma, whose first time effort trickled just wide of the unprotected goal. Midway through the half, the visitors got the lead their dominance deserved. Justin Monday swung in a dangerous corner that Biko Tindi flicked in past a bemused Emery. A frustrated Matano quickly shuffled his pack, taking out the anonymous John Kamau for Bill Oporia. Immediately, the brewers looked a better side going forward and after a period of incessant pressure in the Chemelil area, they found the equaliser in the 42nd minute as Madoya combined with Muchiri to fire the ball past Kevin Otieno. The hosts were determined to set the pace in the second half and could have gone ahead just three minutes after the restart but Muzera fired wide with only goalkeeper Otieno to beat. Both teams made attacking changes with half an hour to play with Sydney Ochieng replacing Muzera while Chemelil sent on Charles Okiya for goal scorer Biko. With ten minutes to go the brewers turned the game on its head thanks to a superlative team move. Peter Nzuki, who had taken the place of Hashim Sempala picked Muchiri down the left. The winger exchanged passes with Macharia before bending the ball unerringly past Otieno to give the brewers the lead which they held onto until the end. Meanwhile, Sofapaka piled more misery on Posta Rangers by beating them 1-0 in Machakos, thanks to a 65th minute goal by Stephen Waruru. In other matches, bottom of the table Mount Kenya United, who had taken a first half lead through John Macharia, were denied their first win of the campaign as Justine Onwonga leveled for Ulinzi Stars at the death as their clash ended 1-1 while Western Stima and KCB played out a goal-less draw. 