Kenya Airways flew 28,000 passengers on the Nairobi-New York route in the period ending December 31. According to Central Bank governor Patrick Njoroge, the airline is targeting 99,000 passengers before the end of 2019. The KQ planes carried 234 passengers, with 30 at the premium world class and 204 in the economy section. During the launch of the route, KQ CEO announced that Economy class fliers would pay Sh89,000 both ways and business class customers would pay Sh257,634 for a return ticket subject to government approval. This means, in the review period, the airline collected Sh25.89 million as airfare for a return trip, assuming the flight was full. According to the governor, the flights have increased growth in the tourism sector and more investors are showing interest in setting shop locally. Last month, the airline announced its intentions to cut to five, weekly flights on the Nairobi-New York route starting January. This was attributed to low demand during the winter season. Before the announcement, KQ had rescheduled flights for the period covering November 2018 to March this year. The airline further canceled 10 scheduled flights on the new route for the period beginning November 5 to December 5. Last week, KQ announced plans to launch new routes to Rome and Geneva starting June this year. This as the airline seeks to expand its market reach and revenue in the wake of stiff competition from peers. The national carrier is targeting travelers visiting European countries for both leisure and business trips. Thirst for growth has seen the airline source talent from Etihad Airways hub by appointing Clare Ward as the Chief Information Officer. Ward is the former Etihad Airways’ CIO executive. He will lead the information technology team and strategy to boost the airline’s communication efforts through digital platforms. The CIO also served in management positions at British Airways, Dubai Airports, and analytical firm, AlphaZetta prior to joining KQ. The CIO position has been headed by Peter Mungai in an acting position after Kevin Kinyanjui resigned in 2017. Ward’s appointment comes at a time when KQ is undergoing strategic changes and initiatives to address internal efficiencies and improve its financial books.