The Anti-Corruption Court yesterday fined a church elder Sh4 million after he was found guilty of fraudulent practice in procurement involving Sh47 million at NYS. The then supply chain assistant at NYS Selesio Karanja, will alternatively serve four years in jail. He had been charged alongside former PS Peter Mangiti and 22 others. However, all his co-accused were acquitted due to lack of evidence. Yesterday trial magistrate Kennedy Bidali who acquitted the others found Karanja guilty of fraudulent procurement practice. In a judgement read on his behalf by Senior Principal Magistrate Lawrence Mugambi, Bidali said the prosecution had proven that he indeed committed an offence. It was alleged that on January 29, 2015, at NYS headquarters being person employed by the Public Service as a supply chain assistant he engaged in fraudulent act by inserting the name of DAMA Services in the tender opening registers. Dama Services was included in the tender for procurement of the training materials in the automotive engineering faculty when they had been approved for the said tender. He was the secretary of the tender opening committee and the witnesses who included members of the committee told the court that the said company was not pre-qualified for the said tender. However, in his defence, Karanja told the court that he followed the procurement laws in that whole process. Karanja also said that he had no prior knowledge of the bidders and he only opened what was in the tender box. In his ruling, Bidali said that the prosecution had proven the case against Karanja further adding that the witnesses had shown court how he committed the offence. Read: Church elder in NYS I scam fined Sh4m for fraudulent procurement “Taking into account and having found that Dama Services was not pre-qualified for this tender, I have come to the conclusion that the accused person in inserting the name of Dama in the tender opening register was acting fraudulently and therefore his defence that he acted in good faith is not tenable” Bidali ruled. In mitigation, Karanja pleaded with the court to consider that he was a church elder and the fact that he is elderly and about to retire. However, Assistant DPP Joseph Riungu on his part asked the court to give the maximum sentence to Karanja. In his ruling on sentencing, Mugambi said that there was no evidence that was presented in court on the issue of Karanja’s age. Further he noted that being a church elder his actions contravened the title he has been bestowed upon by the church. “By the honour bestowed on him by the church, he would be expected to be a person of integrity and not be involved in criminal acts of fraud perpetuated by acts of dishonesty in discharging if public duties” Mugambi said. The magistrate further said that he also betrayed the public trust by manipulating procurement of goods in a public entity. The magistrate further barred Karanja from holding any public office as part of punishment. The DPP has appealed the acquittal of Mangiti and the other accused persons and the ruling is expected in March this year. Click here for the latest political news