A top KCPE pupil from Turkana county is appealing for help from well-wishers after he failed to raise fees to enable him to join Lodwar High School. Shadrack Ekitela,15, who hails from Canaan village, in Turkana central, sat for his KCPE at Korinyang primary and scored 372 marks. He said the poverty situation back at home cannot allow his parents to raise the Sh53,000 needed for him to proceed to secondary school. "Its sad for me, my other friends have already joined their school of choices and I'm here alone not knowing what will happen. I was told to only score 350 marks, then joining high school would not be an issue. Today I am stranded. I sacrificed a lot," Ekitela said. He said his dream is to be a doctor and offer services to his Turkana community. Ekitela said his dreams will not be realised if he is unable to get well-wishers to sponsor him for his studies. "My Mother Doricus Ng'olong cannot raise a single cent for me at the moment. She sells charcoal in the village so that we can have a meal. My father was diagnosed with Tuberculosis and cannot do much because of his chest problems. We mostly depend on well-wishers and food relief from NGOs," Ekitela painfully narrates. He said its barely a week since his mother was involved in an accident where her right leg was injured and is unable to move around as before. Ng'olong told the Star on Sunday that they have tried all means possible to ensure their son joins his dream school on time but they have not been successful. She adds that it has been difficult to raise her eight children since she is the sole breadwinner of the family. "I'm struggling to raise seven boys and a girl. We have sacrificed to educate my firstborn who is in Egerton University hence the reason why I cannot manage to pay fees for Ekitela," Ng'olong said. She said Ekitela was supposed to report on January 7 at Lodwar high school. "I called the principal and asked him to give me more time so that I could be able to raise fees from well-wishers. By bad luck, I was involved in a motorbike accident as I was looking for funds from friends," Ng'olong said. She says she is worried that his son might be locked out of the school as she hasn't secured his school fees. "Today I have made another call to the principal who said that Ekitela has only two days to report to school or else he would lose his spot," Ng'olong said. Click here for the latest political news 