ANC legislators on Friday accused DP William Ruto of fomenting trouble among leaders and political parties to divert attention from the graft war. The Musalia Mudavadi-led party said the rising political temperatures are a political ploy by Ruto and his allies. Some of Ruto’s allies had claimed the war on corruption was meant to puncture his presidential bid ahead of 2022. The fresh attack on the DP came two days after leaders from Mt Kenya region, led by former presidential candidates Martha Karua and Peter Kenneth, launched a scathing attack on Ruto. They accused him of using proxies to clandestinely frustrate President Uhuru Kenyatta. Ruto, through his communication secretary David Mugonyi, has previously rubbished those linking him to the rebellion against Uhuru. On Wednesday, Mugonyi accused some politicians of seeking to revive their political careers by antagonising the DP. “It is in public domain those who made contrary remarks are elected leaders who are known. It will be good if you ask them if they are proxies,” Mugonyi said. “But there are a few who want to twist this matter for cheap political gain to remain relevant. The Deputy President respects and is loyal to his boss, the President. Any other view from political brokers should be treated with contempt.” Read also: ODM leaders accuse Ruto of undermining Uhuru-Raila unity pact Disobedience The ANC leaders blamed Ruto for the political disobedience and falling-outs witnessed in the Jubilee Party, ODM, ANC and Ford Kenya. “Rising revolt and open support for DP Ruto by ODM legislators Suleiman Dori and Aisha Jumwa is part of the scheme. In Western Kenya, the tanga tanga movement is pocketing MCAs to destabilise ANC and Ford Kenya,” Lugari MP Ayub Savula said. The MPs urged Uhuru to remain firm and ignore the 2022 succession politics. Others at the presser included Tindi Mwale (Butere), former Kimilili legislator Justus Murunga and Beatrice Adagala (Vihiga woman representative). They pledged support for Uhuru and his Big Four agenda. “We are not going to bed with Jubilee, but when we see something positive, we give our support to the government. We support President Uhuru Kenyatta’s development plan,” Savula said. He welcomed the President’s stand to initiate development projects across the country and his unrelenting war on corruption. Click here for
the latest political news