The attack on a Nairobi city complex on Tuesday followed the usual terrorist model of operation, security experts have said. An association of former military officers told the Star the 14 River Drive attackers stuck to the traditional methods of launching offensives. “The attack occurred on the El-Adde anniversary date, and a day after one Westgate attack suspect was acquitted for lack of evidence. Past attacks too have been pegged on some sort of commemoration,” Cpt (Rtd) Augustine Lokwang of the Association for Corporate and Industrial Security Management Professionals of Kenya said. ACISMP is a think-tank made up of former military and top rank security officers. Some details from the events show that the attackers had carried out reconnaissance visits, pre-event activities and mobilisation, and actual offensive, Lokwang said. “Many terrorist threats have been thwarted by our security agencies in the period of the lull, but such milestones did not necessarily have to be made public,” he said. He credited the strides made to change in leadership of key security agencies such as the National Intelligence Service and the National Police Service, as well as fined-tuned multi-agency coordination, which played a key role in the swift conclusion of the rescue operation. Mustafa Ali, a consultant on terrorism and other security matters, said the attackers’ motive was to rekindle memories of the El-Adde attack and announce that they are still up and running. “The tactic is still the same. They look at soft, high-end targets that will make headlines and send a message. Terrorism targets the mind, not of the primary victims of their attack but to influence policymakers’ minds,” he said, praising the security forces for swiftly neutralising the militants. Benjamin Muema, a retired colonel, said forcible entry, blasts, laying siege and random quick succession shooting to get maximum casualties are the characteristics of al Shabaab operations. “The putting on defence of some of the Westgate suspects by the court on Monday and the three-year El-Adde commemoration may be linked to what happened, as they normally stage such acts to celebrate or protest some events,” he said.