The Kenya Premier League has vowed to investigate and prosecute culprits of last weekend’s ugly scenes reported in matches played in Nairobi and Machakos. The hooliganism reported at Moi Stadium Kasarani, where Mathare United hosted Gor Mahia and Machakos Stadium, where AFC Leopards confronted Nzoia Sugar has drawn the attention of the league body, which has promised to launch investigations once the match officials table their reports. At Kasarani, stewards reportedly roughed up a Mathare United player in the tunnel at halftime and an isolated fan donning in regalia similar to that of Mathare’s technical bench while the first half was still underway. Worse still, unruly fans who were protesting the level of officiating while making their way to the pitch after the final whistle pelted objects but were repelled by the security apparatus. The highly charged match which had former Harambee Stars captain Dennis Oliech as the centre of attraction as he made his return to the local league after 16 years, ended in a one all draw although a section of the fans were left fuming with a number of questionable calls by the centre referee Felix Ekai. At Machakos Stadium, stewards affiliated to Leopards were accused of storming onto the pitch and descending on centre referee George Mwai after the final whistle. Leopards were headed for a 1-0 win until Nzoia levelled matters in the dying minutes of the game a goal which Ingwe challenged for a foul on their goalkeeper Erick Bakame but Mwai stood his ground leading to a physical confrontation after he blew the final whistle. Following the incidents, the league body has vowed to take stringent disciplinary actions among which prosecuting those found guilty of bending statues and causing physical harm to officials and players. According to KPL chief executive officer, Jack Oguda the body is set to receive the match reports today before embarking on reviewing them and later summoning all teams involved in a bid to gather more evidence for a possible prosecution. “We have already discussed the matter with Football Kenya Federation and we are committed this time round to take those found guilty to court. We will probably receive the match reports today and review them in the course of the week. We will later summon all the teams involved and will dispense justice accordingly. It’s unfortunate such incidents are finding their way to the game and must be weeded out completely.” Oguda further confirmed to have settled last season’s gun drama witnessed at Kericho Green Stadium when Bandari played Zoo Kericho at the facility. A uniformed security guard was pictured reaching for his waist pistol while confronting Bandari captain Felly Mulumba but Oguda confirmed both teams had resolved the matter.