Suspended KCB second assistant coach Elvis Ayany insists he is innocent of the sabotage claims levelled against him. Ayany alongside the seasoned Ezekiel Akwana, who both served as Frank Ouna’s assistants were dropped by the struggling SportPesa Premier League side for allegedly creating rifts in the technical bench but the youthful coach maintains that justice wasn’t duly served. Ayany took over the head coach roles albeit on interim basis in September last year after his boss John Kamau was shown the door for nearly bottling the race to promotion. The former striker then successfully steered the bankers to a return to the top flight after winning all the remaining six matches. Despite achieving the set target, the management of the club relieved him of the head coach roles and dropped him to the rank of second assistant to deputise former Wazito coach Ouna who was surprisingly picked for the top position. This is despite having a disastrous season with the former who were relegated to the second tier. The club shopped both senior and experienced players blending them with young and promising ones in a bid to make a strong return to the top flight but from five matches, the club reaped a single point, prompting the management to launch investigations into the false start. It was established that Ayany and Akwana were fore-fronting divisions in the technical bench and the club’s skipper Dennis Orenge was on the other hand inciting the older players in the club against the new recruits. The trio were later handed their suspension letters and asked to stay away from the club. However Ayany has defended himself of the sabotage claims and believes the club was on the brink of hitting the ground running. “I have been in this club for more than two decades as a player and a coach and the last thing I can do is to sabotage them. Everybody in the club had a role to play and if the result doesn’t meet the expectations, it can not be solely blamed on the assistant coach. I have tirelessly worked in my new role and I believe we were on the brink of getting positive results.”