Politicians, musicians and fans are sending condolence messages on social media following the news that the Afro-jazz musician Oliver Mtukudzi died earlier today. Among the politicians tweeting, is former education and sports minister David Coltart who says the musician made him proud to be Zimbabwean: @Davidcoltart said, "Rest in peace Oliver Mtukudzi. If anyone ever made me proud to be #Zimbabwean it was you. Thank you for making us happy for so long, especially during the darkest days." A Zimbabwean journalist points out that this follows the death of his Mtukudzi's son Sam. He was a successful musician in his own right but died in a car accident in March 2010. @Cemambo said, "Re-united with your beloved son. You can get to play together once again. We cannot & shall never forget the blessings that you showered us with. Your legendary music lives on,#RIPTuku #OliverMtukudzi." Fans also pointed out that today, 23 January, also marked one year since his close friend and South African jazz legend Hugh Masekela died.  Music icon Oliver Mtukudzi and his close friend Hugh Masekela who died a year ago. /COURTESY @Wishietarie said, "The fact that Oliver Mtukudzi passed on on the first death anniversary of his friend Hugh Masekela.....#riptuku #Tuku." Among the musicians paying tribute was South African rapper Blaklez who shared a picture of the two: Others shared their personal memories of the musician, including our own colleagues, Will Ross and Larry Madowo: @LarryMadowo said, "The purpose of song is to give life and hope, to heal the broken hearts,' Oliver Mtukudzi told me in our last chat in 2016. He & Hugh Masekela were always fun, insightful guests for everyone on my old show. Thank you for the music. I'm truly heartbroken today #RIPTuku @Willientune said, "So sad to hear news of Oliver Mtukudzi’s death. Giant of a musician. Wonderful memories of seeing him live in Harare in the 1990’s. He generously gave me loads of time to make a doc on him in 1998 when making the magical Tuku Music album. This pic with his mum at home. RIP Tuku." @Blaklez said, "Thank you for the music ntate Oliver Mtukudzi. When you get to Heaven, please play my mother Raki. It was her favourite song by you. Rest in perfect harmony. #RIPOliverMtukudzi." Click here for the latest political news