Pictures of Grace Wambui serving porridge to rescuers and survivors of the Dusit Hotel attack trended on social media on Tuesday but she has downplayed its significance. Wambui said many people called and thanked her for her helping hand in the midst of adversity. Wambui was in her house watching TV when news of the attack broke out. “I could not sit and just watch so I went to our church in Kileleshwa and with a few church leaders, asked ourselves what we could do,” Wambui told the Star yesterday. The faithful of the Holy Trinity Catholic church resolved to help. “We decided to offer the rescue team some hot beverages because they had been there for long and it was getting cold,” Wambui said. Wambui who is the proprietor of Classic Guest Home said they first sought permission from Kileleshwa police station. “We provided tea at 7pm and again at 10pm before returning with breakfast at about 5am today (yesterday),” she said. The church provided more meals at 9am and 11am and lunch at 1pm. “It is being our brothers’ keepers,” Wambui said as she served food to a police officer who was involved in the rescue mission. She initially used her own money to buy the food before other church members chipped in. “Our chairman requested church members in the neighbourhood to help so they brought potatoes, rice and vegetables. The priest also brought food in a tin,” she said. Read: Attack rekindles worst memories of Westgate Wambui said she will provide food until the operation is over and all rescuers gone. “I will be here until the team tells me they are okay,” said the 54-year-old. She asked Kenyans to shun tribalism and love one another. She also called on Kenyans to be helpful to those under duress. “If God gives you life and you have something that can be shared with someone else, why hold it?” she said. Wambui whose Kisumu hotel was burnt down during the 2007-08 post-election violence and another brought down has since lost her husband and mother in quick succession. But all these setbacks have not held her back, she said. Click here for the latest political news