League champions Gor Mahia has signed former Harambee Stars captain Dennis Oliech for a two-year deal. The player is set to return to the domestic Sportspesa Kenya Premier League 15 years since featuring for Mathare United as a teenager. The 33-year-old former Auxere and Nantes striker, has been on trials with the record 17-time champions Gor. New head coach Hassan Oktay has given the club the greenlight to sign him after impressing him. Oliech will earn Sh350,000 a month, with his signing fee reported to be worth more than Sh3 million, which will be paid in two instalments, according to his representatives. The all-time Harambee Stars goal-scorer with 34 goals penned a two-year deal after holding talks with the club. Chairman Ambrose Rachier presented Oliech with the club's jersey on Wednesday at Gor's offices. "It is a dream come true to feature for the biggest club in the country with the largest following in Kenya. It was my late mum Mary Oliech’s dream for me to feature for K’Ogallo. I'm happy that I achieved it, even though she is not there to witness," Oliech said. The player, who hails from a footballing family, will become the third sibling to play for Gor Mahia FC after his late brother Steve Okumu and Kevin Oliech donned the famous green and white colours. Coach Oktay said Oliech, who played in the French League 1, will help the young strikers to improve. “Despite him being out of active football for more than two years, he is in good shape. He needs to improve on his fitness, though," Oktay said last week during the trials. Oliech, who last featured for Dubai Cultural Sports Club in the Arabic League, said training and trials went on well and he is looking forward to the big challenge ahead. “I'm under no pressure to perform because I believe in my capabilities and experience," Oliech said. He was nicknamed Dennis the Menace because of his brilliants runs on the pitch and hard shots. Oliech is expected to fight for a starting berth with Rwandese captain Jacques Tuyienge, Ivorain Ephraim Gukan, Samuel Onyango, as he seeks to fill in the big boots of Meddie Kagere. The Rwandese player left Gor for Tanzanian giants Simba. Nairobi governor Mike Sonko nominated Oliech to the county’s sports management committee on July 17, last year, alongside former Harambee Stars' captain Musa Otieno. Oliech is the only AFCON class of 2004 player, alongside Tusker goalkeeper Duncan Ochieng, who will be active the KPL. The other is Sofapaka assistant coach, John Baraza, who hung his boots on January 13, 2016. Oliech is likely to make his debut for Gor against Mathare United next weekend. Gor, who play Chemili Sugar this afternoon, have won one match and lost twice this season. The league champions are in the unfamiliar position 13 in the league standings with three points. Click here for the latest political news 