Former Kibwezi MP Kalembe Ndile wants Jubilee Party to be dissolved, saying the merging of affiliate parties has brought no good but only misery. Speaking on Tuesday in Kombani, Kwale county, Kalembe insisted that the alliance should be discontinued since some individuals at the party only served their own interests at the expense of Kenyans. Ndile's party Tip Tip is one of the 11 parties that merged to form Jubilee. He said though ODM leader Raila Odinga's "invasion" of Jubilee had helped in promoting peace across the country, the former PM had at the same time also altered the party's main political agenda. "We should do away with the merge as it has lost its purpose," he said. The former MP said the merger of Jubilee-affiliated political parties had ignited leadership wrangles in the ruling party following the ongoing heated debate on 2022 succession politics. “I was not consulted on the Jubilee party MoU that Deputy President William Ruto will vie for the Presidency in 2022. We were only concerned with winning the 2017 presidential elections,” he said. Read: Open trauma centre for election losers, Kalembe Ndile tells government He lauded President Uhuru Kenyatta for condemning leaders against constant politicking, saying it is still early to talk about 2022 politics since the move is derailing Jubilee's development agenda. Kalembe's sentiments came on the day Ruto broke his silence over the raging debate on the alleged neglect of Central Kenya by the Jubilee administration on development. Though the DP concurred with leaders, who have openly expressed dissatisfaction with the ruling coalition’s development record in the region, he asked them to use appropriate means in addressing the issue. “After projects promised for decades became a reality under Jubilee, many Kenyans, especially Jubilee members understandably are asking us for more,” the DP said in a tweet on Tuesday. Read also: Uhuru only interested in Kalonzo and not Kambas, says Ndile Click here for the latest political news  