Kenyans are not donating enough blood to help during tragedies, the National Blood Transfusion Services said yesterday. The agency is struggling to fill blood banks as only half of the target is being met. While Kenyans have been praised for their generosity, the agency said they are stingy with their blood. Blood donations only spike during tragedies like the Tuesday terror attack at the DusitD2 hotel and during donation campaigns. This makes it difficult to respond to emergencies, according to Kenya National Blood Transfusion Services director for Nairobi Abdinassir Dahir. “We require about 480,000 units of blood every year, but we get less than half of that,” Dahir said. KNBTS is entrusted to provide safe and sufficient blood and blood components for the country. “Eighty per cent of blood in Kenya’s bank is collected from students in secondary schools and colleges who are aged between 16 and 25,” he said. In November, Kenyans were ranked among the top 10 most generous in the world. The ranking was done by UK-based Charities Aid Foundation. The foundation evaluated citizens of 146 countries in terms of helping a stranger, donating money and volunteering for good causes. According to the World Health Organization, if just one per cent of Kenya’s population donates blood every year, the country would be considered blood-sufficient. This means with about 48 million people, Kenya should collect about 480,000 units of blood every year. “Anyone can donate blood, you just need to be between 16 and 65 years of age and (weigh) at least 50kgs,” Dahir told the Star at the August 7th Memorial Park in Nairobi where KNBTS is currently inviting Kenyans to donate blood. HEART ATTACK RISK He said 60 per cent of the blood Kenyans donate is used by mothers and their children for birth-related needs. “Every 10 minutes a patient needs that lifesaving unit of blood. A doctor cannot conduct any surgery if blood for replacement is not available.” Although eligible people can donate blood thrice a year, statistics show only three in 10 donors return to give more. “Donating blood regularly is actually healthy because it lowers iron stores. This may reduce the risk of heart attack because high body iron stores are believed to increase the risk,” Dahir said. The highest amount of blood collected in Kenya was 169,000 units in 2013, which was 38 per cent of the requirement that year. The ‘success’ was mainly attributed to several terrorist attacks in the last half of 2013 which necessitated several blood donation campaigns. KNBTS national director Josephine Githaiga said they are working with stakeholders to plug the deficit. Read: KNBTS warns public hospitals against selling blood to patients Click here for the latest political news