Close associates of Mombasa governor Hassan Joho are silently working to ensure that he becomes heir to ODM leader Raila Odinga. They are secretly campaigning to popularise the flamboyant governor as a likeable politician who can turn foes into friends. This is in readiness for a potential presidential bid should Raila decide not to run for president in 2022. In almost every political function, Joho’s allies tout his popularity across the country and ask supporters, especially those at the Coast, to support one of their own. Joho has declared he is interested in the presidency in 2022.This has created tension between him and his Kilifi counterpart Amason Kingi, who has also declared interest. Although the two appear together in functions and promise to work out a formula on who will be the presidential candidate in 2022, their camaraderie is not like it used to be. There is a silent tug of war between the two governors’camps over who is the Coast kingpin. Joho loyalists in the silent campaign include MPs Mishi Mboko (Likoni), Omar Mwinyi (Changamwe), Teddy Mwambire (Ganze MP), Ken Chonga (Kilifi South), Zulekha Hassan (Kwale county) and Asha Hussein (Mombasa county). Joho is the ODM deputy party leader and has to contend with his co-deputy party leader and Kakamega governor Wycliffe Oparanya and Suna East MP Junet Mohamed in the race to succeed Raila. Junet has Raila’s ear and appears to be his most trusted lieutenant at the moment. Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir has also joined the list of Joho loyalists who want him to be Kenya’s fifth president. On Sunday, Nassir confirmed Joho is being prepared to run for the presidency. “We are confident that Hassan Joho will be on the ballot paper for president of this country,” said Nassir on phone. The MP said so far Raila has not declared interest in the presidency in 2022, thus making Joho the outright frontrunner from ODM. “I will be on the frontline [supporting Joho]. I will blame Hassan Ali Joho very vehemently if he is not going to be on the ballot paper. He will be on the ballot paper. It is not his choice. It is the choice of the people,” Nassir said. Changamwe’s Mwinyi said it is important that Joho’s allies across the Coast start activating his support base. At an award ceremony for the Machele Super Cup at Burhaniya Secondary School, the MP was concerned that Joho’s supporters take him from granted. “You may not know because you are in Mombasa but governor Joho has support from all European cities and in America,” he said. “Wherever he goes, he has the support of all Kenyans and Africans in general. I have personally witnessed this when I accompany him. Even some from West Africa support governor Joho.” The silent campaign has also roped in youthful politician and philanthropist Mohamed Soud Machele. He is in charge of mobilising the youth. The politician has been pushing the agenda mostly through sports sponsored by his Machele Foundation. On Sunday, he said this is the best opportunity the Coast has to produce Kenya’s president. “I would like this generation to succeed more than the previous generations. Let us support our own,” Machele said. He said with support from leaders, youth today can transform themselves into responsible and successful citizens with a vital role to play in Kenya’s economy. Mwambire, Mboko, Mwinyi, Chonga and Zulekha, said they will throw their weight behind Joho should Raila decide not to run for presidency again. “If Raila decides to quit the race, we will remain with Joho so he can protect our resources. We know Joho is fit,” Zulekha said. Mboko said thery have strategies in place to ensure Joho is the preferred presidential candidate should Raila decide not to vie. “Those saying Baba should quit should shut up. In any case, he has the baton and will give it to Joho,” the Likoni MP said. “Whether we love him or hate him, nationally and internationally he has the support,” Mwinyi said. Joho is the chairman of the Global Strong Cities Steering Committee Working Group on Communications and Counter Narratives. The United Nations launched the Strong Cities Network (SCN) in September 2015. It is the first ever global organization of mayors, city leaders, governors and policy makers. SCN serves a key tool in strengthening capacity-building and improving collaboration among the world’s op cities. Joho is also the Co- President of the 21st Century Maritime Cooperation Committee on Trade and Investments of Cities and Local Governments. “If we decide we want to support our governor into national politics, where he can play in the presidential league, we can do it,” Mwinyi said. said Mwinyi.