Five people who pretended to be agents contracted by the United Nation have been charged with defrauding farmers of maize worth more than sh 2 million. They collected the maize from farmers in Uasin Gishu pretending that they had won' a tender to supply the maize to the UN at better price. The five denied the charges when they appeared before Chief Magistrate Charles Obulutsa. They are Sammy Kiria Nyaha, Martin Kariuki Kiruja, Samson Kipng’etich Maiyo, Paul Munyao Mutisya,and John Were Odhiambo. Obulutsa ordered that they each be released on a bond of Sh 1 million. Police arrested the suspects early this week in Eldoret where they had gone to deliver the maize to a private Miller. More than five farmers who had released their maize to the suspects complained to police after sensing that they would loose their produce. "They had cheated us that they would pay better prices after delivering the maize to the UN but later we found them selling the produce to a miller", said one of the farmers. The suspects faced six counts of conspiracy to defraud farmers in Ziwa area ,Soy Sub County within Uasin-Gishu county. State prosecutor Juliet Busienei told the court that the five conspired to steal 700 bags of maize valued at Sh2.1milion from five farmers. Its alleged that they committed the offense between the month of December 2018 and January 14, 2019. The five claimed in court that they had been tortured by police after being arrested. "We were beaten badly after being arrested and our bodies are swollen. We need medication your honour", said Kiria. They asked the court to release them on bail so that they can seek medication. Kiria said they were innocent and should not have been tortured. "We are in a lot of pain and we please with the court to release us so that we can go and get treatment", he said. Obulutsa directed the lead criminal investigating officer to appear in court on 28th to explain how and why the suspects were tortured. Police say the suspects cheated farmers that they had won a maize supply tender with the UN at Sh3,000 per 90kg bag. Maize farmers are currently facing marketing problems for their produce and the government has planned to buy only 2 million bags at sh 2,500 per bag at the NCPB.