Local pros preparing for the forthcoming fifth and penultimate leg of the Safari Tour Golf have every reason to smile after organisers tripled the prize money to Sh3m. This follows a sponsorship boost from both Barclays Bank of Kenya and Johnnie Walker, who have contributed Sh1m each. The increase in sponsorship means that the professional winner of the Safari Tour leg at the Muthaiga Golf Club will bank Sh450,000 up from Sh150,000 in previous legs. The Muthaiga leg starts tomorrow through Wednesday. Kenya Open Golf Limited chairman, Peter Kanyago, lauded both Barclays Bank and Johnnie Walker for their support towards the sport of Golf. “At the Kenya Open Golf Limited are delighted to receive this sponsorship and are grateful to both Barclays Bank of Kenya and Johnnie Walker for their continued support. With this significant increase in prize money we expect our Professional golfers to up their game,” he said. Barclays Bank of Kenya managing director, Jeremy Awori, said that the bank’s partnership with KOGL in the Safari Tour is yet another opportunity to continue driving the development of the sport in the country, as we approach the 2019 Kenya Open tournament. “Over the past nine years, we have walked hand-in-hand with KOGL in growing the profile of Kenya as a golfing destination and as we transition from Barclays to Absa, we have an even stronger resolve to be an active force for good in the societies where we operate. We will therefore continue investing in such initiatives to enable Kenyans bring their possibilities to life,” Awori said. “We remain committed to engaging and delighting our stakeholders at their various passion points through such events, an agenda that we intend to advance during and after our transition to Absa.” Kenya Breweries Limited managing director, Jane Karuku, said: “At KBL, we remain committed to supporting the growth of all sports in Kenya, we have over the years been one of the longest standing partners of golf in the country. The Safari Tour gives us another opportunity to help in the growth of Golf, by actively participating in the preparation of our local pros ahead of the 2019 Kenya Open.” “I am confident that the money we have put into the Safari Tour will go a long way in helping our local professionals with their final preparations ahead of the 2019 Kenya Open and I look forward to improved performances at the tournament.” Professional Golfers of Kenya chairman, Charan Thethy, said this will boost the Kenyan professionals’ morale as they take part in the penultimate round of the Safari Tour. “We are delighted at the news of additional support from Barclays and Johhnie Walker towards the Safari Tour and believe that the increased in prize kitty will boost the morale of players as they take part in the round as well as enhance the competition among players,” he said. The series, launched in August last year as a precursor to this year’s Kenya Open Golf Championship, has so far been played in Nyali, Vetlab, Limuru and Thika Greens. Among the top pros expected at Muthaiga are Dismas Indiza, Greg Snow, David Wakhu, Jacob Okello and Eric Ooko.