National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale has urged Tana River residents to help security agents to find kidnapped Italian aid worker Silvia Romano. She was abducted by gunmen on November 20 last year from her rental house in Chakama village. The kidnappers wounded five people, including a 10-year-old boy. “This lady is innocent, it’s unfortunate and saddening that almost two months later she is still in the hands of her captors. Let us volunteer information to help arrest these criminals,” Duale told the press yesterday in Garissa. He also told the security team in charge of the rescue operation to stop harassing residents and confiscating their national IDs. A major rescue operation includes KDF, the Regular Police, GSU, KWS and AP officers, together special forces tracking the Somali-speaking suspects. They were believed to be hiding in vast Boni Forest and trying to reach Somalia. Residents have accused security forces of collective punishment in the operation in greater Tana River. “Security officers are roaming all over the Tana delta. Whoever they find, especially in remote areas, is given a thorough beating and ordered to produce the Italian lady. But we don’t know where she is,” Tana resident Abdi Mohamed said. Human rights activists visited some who have allegedly been tortured by security forces. They called on the state to stop arbitrary arrests of innocent people and stop profiling communities as criminals. Former Bura MP Nuh Nasir on Sunday criticised the way the entire operation is being carried out, saying several innocent people have been injured by the police. “It is quite unfortunate the security apparatus has resorted to wholesale condemnation of the community,” Nasir said. He added,“Gone are the days when the government did all manner of injustices to its citizens. We are living in the 21st century and have a new Constitution that says the rule of law must be followed and the rights of each and every Kenyan respected.” Romano, 23, was working for an Italian charity, Africa Milele Onlus, based in Likoni, Mombasa. In November last year she reportedly signed a contract to work in Chakama until March this year. Residents had told journalists that Romano was barefoot and was dragged away by gunmen as she pleaded for help from the villagers. Her attackers are believed to have rented a lodging three days before her abduction, less than 20 metres from her house. It is not clear whether the kidnapping was personal or targeted at the Italian government. Al Shabaab militants have kidnapped foreigners in the past but authorities have not officially linked this abduction to Shabaab.