The first constitutional change has taken place without a referendum, Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria has said. Kuria was referring to the latest changes made by President Uhuru Kenyatta putting Interior CS Fred Matiang'i at the heart of the Executive. Matiang’i will take charge of the implementation and monitoring of all development projects initiated and funded by the national government through a new Cabinet sub-committee. The sub-committee will be known as the National Development Implementation and Communication Cabinet Committee. It brings on board all CSs, Attorney General Kihara Kariuki and Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua. More on this: Uhuru trims Ruto’s power in new order "Exactly what I had in mind when I proposed a Prime Minister and two Deputy Prime Ministers appointed by the President to assist the President and the Deputy President in these important roles," Kuria said. In a Facebook post on Wednesday, Kuria congratulated Matiang'i, Treasury CS Henry Rotich and Interior PS Karanja Kibicho for their big appointments. According to the executive order dated Monday this week, Rotich will deputise Matiang’i in the Cabinet sub-committee. The committee will also be chaired by Kibicho "Now I can sleep well and sound, comfortable that there is a team of three who will switch on and off the lights of government every morning and evening," Kuria said. "...they will ensure the government cows have been milked and milk delivered to the collection centre and nobody forgot to lock in government chickens or remove government clothes from the line." Kuria's post received mixed reactions from his followers with more that 100 replies on his timeline. "Matiang'i will be reporting to the president and then the president will address the nation with big promises and nothing will ever happen just like for the last five years of his presidency," Kabz Edwin said. Julie Cheruiyot said, "In short, Fred Matiang’i has been given powers to supervise all Cabinet secretaries and all departments of government. What this means is that Matiang’i is now second powerful person in the executive arm of government technically speaking, where does that leave Deputy President William Ruto? Succession politics picking up momentum, fast and furious." "Matiangi will be reporting to the president and not the presidency. Ruto's goose has been cooked. No more Tangatanga for Ruto to unveil ficticious projects," Waweru Muturi said. Wesley Tanui said "I like your spirit brother. I know you'd been overworked with milking and other gov't chores. Take one on whisky on my bill as you relax. Chunga tu Matiangi asikatae urudi kama Miguna Miguna." "Sahi kazi ya Deputy president itakuwa ku unveil boda boda shade All other mega projects will under Matiangi," Champ Muriithi said. Kamau Reuben said "Matiang'i hasn't been accorded anything new or special.... It's all in the mandate of Interior Ministry..." "Matiangi the prime minister..kidogo kidogo,the president endorsed," Nderitu Samson said. Waziri Brummie said "Uhuru hasn't finished humiliating Dr Ruto? If I were Ruto would resign and start afresh." James Nguya said "Do we really need a Prime Minister in Kenya? What will the President and the Deputy do if we create these positions? Uhuru anajipanga for 2022 apate cheo cha Prime Minister. #wrongpriorities." The committee has been given sweeping powers and could recommend termination of some contracts and recommend legal action in cases where there is presumed loss of public funds. It will provide “timely guidance on appropriate measures to address challenges constraining effective implementation and delivery of development programmes and projects”. Also read: Ruto asks Jubilee leaders to respect President Uhuru Late last year, Matiang’i spearheaded a massive crackdown on the chaotic matatu industry and pushed for strict enforcement of the Michuki rules to restore order on Kenyans roads. Matiang’i’s bold move was interpreted by some quarters as encroaching on the mandate of the Transport ministry. Related: Why Uhuru and his men are against Ruto's bid Click here for the latest political news 