Tourism in the Coastal region has always been associated with beach resorts and national parks, where tourists stream in to enjoy a holiday in the famous destinations. During high season, tourists, both local and foreign, flock to hotels in Watamu, Malindi, Kilifi and Diani to enjoy the tranquility and fun. However, there is a hidden treasure in a little-known virgin beach in Magarini that is convenient for guests who need time to relax away from their home. A British couple introduced the new tourism escapade at a remote, bushy beach camp near Cheshale in Magarini, Kilfi county. Guests can have a perfect opportunity to switch off from the world, soak up the sun, and swim in the warm and clear waters. Edward Aniere and his wife Selma Mawani have turned a place once infested with snakes and wild animals into a world-renowned centre for tourists who need peace and good food. Barefoot beach camp is where one forgets about time and is offered the best he or she deserves by the couple in the most convenient way possible to satisfy the holiday mood. At the camp, one does not have to bother about when to wake up or time for lunch or dinner, as is the case in the usual resorts. It is the guest who requests what time to eat and what kind of food will suit him.  HOW IT STARTED Aniere, a professional cook for over 35 years, inherited land from his father and decided to put up the beach camp in 2011. This was despite strong opposition from the wife, who wanted to start such a business in Nakuru instead. At first, the husband set up one tent at the remote bushy beach area before they came up with four others to start up the project. Today, the couple has a two restaurants, one at the beach that is open to the public, and another one that has a capacity of 24 people. Mawani says at Barefoot, clients feel at home. “You chill out. You tell us what you want to eat any time. There is no set time for meals. We prepare what the client wants to eat,’’ she says . Mawani, who is a professional marketer, concentrates on marketing and cooking for clients. She says once a client checks in at the resort, he can sleep and wake up any time he wants, go swimming, and relax without bothering what time to eat. What started as a small idea has now turned to become a global site for international celebrities, lovers, writers, bloggers and honeymooners, who love peace of mind.  VILLAGE SET UP Barefoot beach camp is located 23km north of Malindi town and gives guests the real impression of village life, traversing from the busy Malindi highway off to Ngomeni. At the the junction to Barefoot, one is welcomed by the picture of the rural set-up, rough, sandy roads with coconut trees and a cool atmosphere that gives the pleasure of peace. Journalists toured barefoot on January 8 and came face to face with the unique serenity of the remote but perfect destination that has become a treasure for many. At the entrance of the beach camp, one could easily think he is entering a local Giriama homestead, with the Makuti-thatched roof houses surrounded by well-trimmed raffia, Mathenge and neem trees. Our first impression was to wonder whether we were at the right place. It was only after a person wearing a Barefoot T-shirt welcomed us that we knew we were not lost. The Makuti-thatched building at the entrance turned out to be the main restaurant, which we came to learn was built in the design of a bare foot, comprising a kitchen, bar and restaurant. There is a fireplace past the restaurant with seats where guests light a bonfire at night to enjoy their drinks in silence, as they listen to the waves of the Indian Ocean. The five luxurious and only tents at the beach camp are also strategically located at areas surrounded by trees to give the client the privacy required. Inside is a luxurious bed and washroom, where one can enjoy and relax while enjoying the cool breeze of the Indian Ocean. We come to learn that one of the tents cost over Sh1 million to complete and gives clients the satisfaction and desire to stay. Initially the camp used to operate on solar power, but due to the demand, they now have electricity, which is more convenient. “A lot of guests who stay here do not want to leave. They say the place is fantastic and inform their friends and come,” Mawani says. She says they decided to keep the camp small to maintain the privacy and peaceful environment desired by clients.  INTERNATIONAL CELEBRITIES At the beach restaurant, we come to learn that one of the guests, Mauro Tavola, is the partnership director of AC Milan, a top football team in Italy. Tavola was at the resort for a two-day, one-night stay as part of his itinerary, and seemed satisfied with the environment of the camp. Journalists found him having lunch with three friends at the beach restaurant, which offers a view of the golden beach of Magarini. He looked relaxed, barefoot and casually dressed, wearing only a short without a shirt, and he did not seem to be in a hurry, though we learnt it was his final day. Apart from accepting a Word Is interview, Tavola also freely accepted to be photographed and offered his business card. “It’s natural, comfortable and silent,” he said, adding that Barefoot is famous because of the nature and services offered. He said Barefoot gave him time to relax away from his busy schedule and pressure while managing AC Milan back in Italy. “This is memorable, we sleep with the natural sound of the ocean. It’s fantastic to live without the pressure of work,” Tavola said. He promised to return to Barefoot and if possible with team members of AC Milan, to come and enjoy the tranquility and pristine beach. Another tourist from Italy, Gio Benusilglio, could not hide her excitement for being at such a cool and wonderful place. Benusiglio, who had just come for lunch with friends, says the place looks romantic to stay in both day and night. She said the place should not be expanded. It has to remain quiet with low numbers to prevent noise. “Please don’t bring many people here, we like it the way it is. I know business-wise it may not be good, but the place is just good the way it is,’’ she said.  BAREFOOT IS ABOUT FOOD Aniere says the camp is all about food. He spends most of his time in the kitchen to ensure clients get the proper taste of the meals, including seafood, vegetable salads, nyama choma and even mutura. The camp is a family business in which every member plays a role, including his two young children and the workers. When full, there are 11 workers, but when guests are few, there are three permanent staff, who act as family members. “The set-up idea, the design behind Barefoot, came from a bare foot,” he says. “When you go to the beach, you go without shoes. We do not allow people to eat with shoes in the restaurant.” The biggest challenge they face is the poor road and lack of piped water. The investors say if the government can supply water, it would be helpful to them. Workers say the beach camp has been a home for them as it has offered them jobs and even made them to learn more about the hospitality industry. Erastus Ziro, a bar man and waiter who has worked with the Aniere family since 1986, says he feels good to serve clients from different backgrounds, who are always amazed by his name. In 2016, Barefoot Beach Camp got a certificate of excellence from Tripadvisor for the consistent achievement of high ratings from travellers. 