Dennis Oliech rose from the bench in the 67th minute to make his return to the Kenyan Premier League as his new side Gor Mahia played to a one all draw against Mathare United yesterday at Moi Stadium, Kasarani yesterday. The Kenya’s all time top scorer rested Nicholas Kipkirui in the second half to make his return on the local scene—16 years after ditching Mathare United to launch his professional career. Unfortunately, he could not score the decider against his former side. Jacques Tuyisenge gave Gor the lead in the 33rd minute from the spot after Mathare’s goalkeeper Allan Owiny brought down Lawrence Juma in the box. Tuyisenge send the former Thika United keeper the wrong way to give the champions the lead goal which separated the two side till half time. After the break, Kelvin Kimani drew the Slum Boys level from the spot after James Situma was brought down by Shafik Batambuze in the 56th minute. The highlight of the match came in the 67th minute after Oliech was summoned to replace Kipkirui and the former Nantes striker made a number of unsuccessful attempts to give his side the winning goal. Gor Mahia coach Hassan Oktay termed Oliech as the solution to his misfiring forward despite him failing to get them the match winning goal. Oktay said: “It wasn’t the result we wanted and I think we wasted several scoring chances. We dropped two vital points today even after dominating the match. Oliech is experienced and I think he will solve our striking problems.” Mathare coach Francis Kimanzi said: “It was tough match and I am pleased with the point gained from the match.” In other matches played, a second half strike by Benson Amianda earned KCB their second point of the season as the bankers held Kariobangi Sharks to a one-all draw at Machakos Stadium. Former FC Talanta and national U-20 midfielder Vincent Wasambo had given Sharks the lead in the first half. Mt. Kenya United once again failed to get their first win of the season as they played Vihiga United to a 1-1 draw at Bukhungu sSadium. Veteran midfielder Timonah Wanyonyi scored for Mt. Kenya while Alex Imbusi replied for Vihiga. In other matches, Posta Rangers will have Ken Mutembei to thank as his lone goal was all they needed to win their second match of the season, beating Kakamega Homeboyz 1-0 at Bukhungu. Ten-man Bandari saw off Sony Sugar 2-1 at Mbaraki Stadium in a match which Nicholas Mejja was sent off. Dan Guya and Hassan Abdallah were on target for the dockers while Enoch Agwanda replied for Sony.