Not only are music ideas borrowed, but shows as well. Reality judge Simon Cowell has revealed that he borrowed the idea for Britain Got Talent from a rival music show. "It was just an idea I had in the kitchen one day, I was watching another competing music show and a girl was murdering Get Here by Olita Adams. I thought do you know what I would actually rather watch a show about a singing dog. And that's how Got Talent came along," Cowell told The Paul McKenna Positivity Podcast. "And we developed it over a year and then we sold it. And this show will run for 20 years," he said Just like in any business, the 'harsh' judge admitted he doesn't like seeing his show business rivals performing well with TV formats of their own, and likes to take inspiration from them and channel it into his own shows. "We see a competing show and think, we will take a bit of that show and put it into ours," he said. Got Talent has spin-offs in over 58 countries, in what is now referred to as the 'Got Talent' format, similar to that described by FremantleMedia of the Idol and The X Factor formats. Unlike those shows, Got Talent showcases several artistic disciplines in addition to singing. In April 2014, the format was named the world's most successful reality TV format ever by the Guinness World Records. Sarah Ikumu, 17-year-old Kenyan, is among those who have auditioned for Britain Got Talent and warmed the heart of Simon Cowell receiving a 'Golden Buzzer' two years ago, despite being tough. "I knew Simon Cowell was tough,” Sarah said, adding that she was not mostly thinking about him but mainly about her voice, and if it was going to stay the whole time. Simon even admits that he physically falls sick when he sees a competing show starting. "I don't like my friends to do well. I really don't. Jealousy is a weird way is good for you. If you are not jealous of your competitors, you are not going to win." In Kenya, the same has been happening where a popular phrase comes out and is turned into a song, which at the same time is mind blowing Phrases such as 'Lamba Lolo', Bora Uhai and Ata sijaskia vibaya, among others have been turned into hits by some artistes.