Former Kakamega senator Boni Khalwale says he will stick with Deputy President William Ruto despite criticism from Luhya leaders. Khalwale said Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli and Kakamega senator Cleophas Malala should stop attacking him and the DP's camp. "They should leave me alone. I decided to join DP Ruto's team and there is no turning back," Khalwale said. He vowed to continue campaigning for Ruto until he wins over the Western region and the 2022 presidential election. "I know Ruto is best suited to take over from President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2022 and those thinking otherwise are dreaming," Khalwale said. He spoke on Tuesday at Nyengilel village in Uasin Gishu during the burial of Caroline Chepkurui, a nursing student at Tenwek School of Health Science. Khalwale, who is also the Ford Kenya deputy party leader, was accompanied by Turbo MP Janet Sitienei, former area MP Elisha Busienei and Ruto's personal aide Farouk Kibet among other leaders. He accused Luhya leaders of trying to intimidate him because of his stand. Read: Khalwale formally joins Ruto's camp, says he will be President in 2022 "I want to warn them that no amount of insults will make me change the position I have taken," Khalwale said. He dared the Luhya leaders, including Atwoli, to face him on the ground in the Western region instead of making what he termed as "too much unnecessary noise that will not stop him". “I will continue to work with the DP in all corners of the country to rally support for his presidential ambition that is real." He said his relationship with Ruto is not for personal gain as claimed by his critics. "We will ensure unity between the Luhya and Kalenjins as well as other Kenyans who cherish development," Khalwale said. Khalwale scoffed at the leaders for spending most of their time and resources to attack him at political and funeral events in Western Kenya. MP Sitienei urged the Kalenjin and Luhya communities to unite and back Ruto. "We are neighbours and should live in peace. We need good leaders like DP Ruto to lead us," she said. The Turbo MP asked politicians to preach unity among Kenyans and compete without causing divisions. "We are a free and democratic society and we should always tolerate views from each other because at the end of the day we are one," Sitienei said. Read also: Ruto allies welcome Khalwale support Click here for the latest political news  