When Director of Public Prosecutions Nordin Haji arraigned more than 50 people in court in connection to the Sh468 million loss at the National Youth Service, he announced to Kenyans that he had a watertight case against the suspects. Several state counsels appeared in court when the suspects, including former Public Service and Youth PS Lillian Omollo, pleaded to the charges. The DPP vehemently opposed their release on bail and in a ruling, Chief Magistrate Douglas Ogoti agreed with the prosecution saying the charges they were facing were serious. In the ruling, Ogoti said economic offences constitute a class apart and the need to be visited with a different approach in the matter of bail. “The economic offence having deep rooted conspiracies and involving huge loss of Public funds needs to be viewed seriously and considered as grave offences affecting the economy of the country as a whole and thereby posing serious threats to the financial health of the country and in my opinion and finding which can lead to anarchy, threat to peace and threat to national security,” he said. It was only after the suspects moved to the High Court that they managed to be released on bail. The terms were, however, harsh, forcing some of them to spend months in remand. Read: DPP Haji defends withdrawal of charges against 10 suspects in NYS 2 case The trial has now started and Haji, after merging the cases as directed by the court, decided to withdraw charges against 12 suspects as part of his strategy to nail the big fish. The DPP has discretion under section 87 (a) of the Criminal Procedure Code to withdraw charges at any time before an accused person is called upon to make a defense. However, such withdrawal does not bar subsequent charges against the accused persons. In a statement released on Wednesday, Haji said that seven of the suspects would be used as witnesses in the cases. Those converted to prosecution witnesses include junior officers whose evidence according to Hajji will be key in strengthening their case to secure convictions. However, five other individuals were still facing charges in other cluster of cases, which are pending before other magistrates. “When the cases were reviewed, it dawned on us that the said persons were more suitable as prosecution witnesses ‘even though some of them may offer accomplice evidence but that evidence will be corroborated by other independent witnesses as envisaged under the law’ read part of his statement. Under article 157 of the constitution and section 5 of the ODPP Act, the DPP may review a case at any stage and considering the circumstances in the current case, the review was invited largely by the order for consolidation. In summary, the NYS cases have been divided among three magistrates, with each court handling one file after the cases were consolidated. Even as he withdrew the charges, Hajji said lack of evidence was not an issue and that section 87 of the CPC, doesn’t compel them to give reasons as to why charges are withdrawn. Read: Trial of Lilian Omollo, 36 others in NYS scandal kicks off According to an article by John Buck, cooperating witnesses have long been a critical tool for prosecutors and enforcement agency lawyers in both investigations and criminal proceedings. Buck is a partner in Perkins Coie’s Chicago office, focuses his practice in the areas of investigations and white collar defense, unfair competition litigation, product liability litigation and other commercial litigations. The article themed ‘Cooperating witnesses: Changing Pressures Create Riska and Opportunities indicates that “the vast majority of individual defendants are faced with a series of choices- all of which are unattractive-about whether to “cooperate” or dig in and fight” In most cases, Buck says the government is not all-knowing and in the absence of cooperating witnesses the Department Of Justice (DOJ) Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), and other agencies ‘likely would not uncover-much less be able to prove-many claims arising out of questionable conduct or practices’. Click here for the latest political news