Nakuru West MP Samuel Arama has fronted Interior CS Fred Matiang'i as a likely successor to President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2022. The MP said it is wrong for Kenyans to believe that the Presidency belongs to only specific tribes. “We need a break from Kikuyu, Kalenjin presidents. Is it fair for a country of 43 tribes to be led in all of its history by sons hailing from only two communities?" Arama asked. The MP spoke on Monday when he issued Sh4.1 million bursary cheques to more than 200 needy students from his constituency. Arama said the Kisii community has several political leaders who can lead the country including the CS. "Matiang'i has shown that he has qualities to be the next President of Kenya. I will push my community to have him on the ballot to t show the other communities that this seat is not their preserve,” said the MP. He said the Kisii community is 'ripe' and ready to take over the country's leadership in 2022. The MP said it is unfortunate that the country seems to have embraced dynastic leadership and called on voters to reject it. “It’s this kind of thinking that has created hatred and animosity among tribes. This is a backward superiority-based ethnic and tribal divide,” the lawmaker said. He said some leaders from the "dominant" communities are making others feel like clinching the presidency is an uphill task that can only be achieved by one of their own. “Other tribes are talking so passionately about the succession politics and the fronted flag bearers as if these other communities do not exist. This is very retrogressive and selfish thinking,” Arama said. He said that while Deputy President William Ruto is the most likely person to succeed Uhuru, Kenyans have the final say on who their next President will be. “If Kenyans elect Ruto, well and good, and if they reject him there is nothing wrong with that. That is democracy. Even someone from another tribe contesting and winning a governor’s seat in Nakuru is hard,” Arama said. Click here for the latest political news