Mt Kenya region leaders have been urged to form a regional economic bloc to increase investment and trade. Kiambu deputy governor James Nyoro said yesterday the region should unite and compete with other blocs. He spoke at the county headquarters in Kiambu town. Senator Kimani Wamatangi said an economic bloc will spur development, create jobs and improve living standards. He said the region is allocated at least Sh50 billion every financial year, which can boost economic growth. “It is time for Mt Kenya counties to start realigning and seeking ways of how they can work together,” Wamatangi said. The Lake Region Economic Economic bloc formed in 2015 has only been ratified by four county assemblies, with 10 still undecided. Nyoro said the county leadership has been unable to consult and work together to take stock of, plan and coordinate projects. “Particularly in identifying new areas of investment in line with the President’s Big Four agenda. It is also common knowledge that the leaders have been unable to agree on development priorities,” he said. “Kiambu county has a lot of investments going on and it is only prudent that we be united as a region and negotiate to come up with a blueprint that will help us compete.” Nyoro said Mt Kenya has not been neglected, but its leaders need to identify key areas for investment for the national and county governments. On New Year’s Eve, Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria accused the Jubilee government of neglecting Central in terms of development. The remarks attracted a huge backlash from other leaders, who asked him to apologise to the President. Nyoro differed with Kuria, saying 2022 campaigns had begun too early. “When we pointed out the projects done by the national government in Mt Kenya region, other regions came out saying they have been shortchanged,” he said. Governor Ferdinand Waititu said, “If we dare advertise what the President and national government are doing for our region, other counties will hold demonstrations.” Waititu said modern markets are being built in Kiambu for Sh2 billion, as well as dams for Sh500 million, roads Sh30 billion by the national government.