Ulinzi Stars’ coach Danstan Nyaudo believes he has found Stephen Waruru perfect replacement in forward and the current SportPesa Premier League top scorer Enosh Ochieng. Ochieng has found the back of the net six times in five matches, a performance which Nyaudo believes will fully help fill the void left by Waruru who decamped to Sofapaka in January last year. Ulinzi struggled for goals last season after Waruru’s exit, leaving Nyaudo to gamble for his replacement between the trio of Ochieng, Elijah Mwanzia and Masuta Masita. However, the magnificent start by Ochieng in the current season has earned him showers of praises from his boss who believes he is the solution to his striking problems. The former Muhoroni Youth was on target twice last weekend when the soldiers gunned down Sony Sugar to rise to ninth on the standings—an execution the coach has linked to hard work and ability to play to instructions. “I have been talking to Ochieng for quite some time and I am happy it’s paying dividends this season. I think if he maintains his current form, he will fully replace Waruru. Although the two players are gifted differently, I think Ochieng is now our solution to our striking problems. He is a hard working since his days at Muhoroni Youth and I am confident he will be contender for the ‘Golden Boot’ award.” The 2010 league champions had a slow start in their quest for their fifth league title which Nyaudo attributed to injuries in his defence but the availability of Paul Muchika for selection after completing his military training has cushioned the situation. Ulinzi have had to do without the services of experienced defenders Brian Birgen and Hassan Mohammed in the past matches but the return of Muchika has stabilised the defence. “We have not had the best start due to injuries especially in the defence where Birgen and Mohammed have been largely unused due to various injuries but I am happy Muchika is providing cover. He played well over the weekend although he is yet to gain his best form after the training. We had been conceding cheap goals but we are slowly fixing the loopholes.”