 When terrorists
strike, the last thing they and their ilk want to see is calmness and going
about business as usual because doing so deprives their depraved souls the
perverted satisfaction that they have terroriSed a nation. That’s exactly what
we should do — mourn the lost ones, help their families and loved ones  but carry-on with life as it did not happen. That’s not to
say those charged with the responsibility to keep us safe shouldn’t do more to
minimiSe or altogether eliminate these acts of terror. We can go about our normal lives
without looking over our shoulders or worried dead in going places knowing the
government has in place enough human intelligence and tools to keep us safe as
they should notwithstanding the once in awhile these merchants of death manage
to succeed in their uncouth and evil deeds. That being the
case, let’s resume where we left off before the Riverside attack and that’s exploring the
question should he or should he not be our next President. The he is not Raila Odinga for there’s a consensus he should be our next president should he choose to vie. Those opposed to his potential
presidency have no valid reason. However, those
who think his likely rival were he to vie, is not fit or at best is less
qualified to be our next president have several valid reasons for that
proposition: First, if the
choice is between the two, meaning Raila and the only likely serious rival—and
it may as well end up being the case, then comparing their pros, including
things such as leadership skills, competence, sacrifice for country and so on, one’s
stack of the pros is so high it makes the other one look the political dwarf he
is in comparison. Falling short in measuring up to Raila is therefore the number
one reason his likely serious rival falls short in consideration. Second,
strictly on the question of temperament, Baba’s primary challenger, if he
decides to vie, has demonstrably made the case he does not have the temperament
to be President neither does he have the humility that one holding that office
demands. Conversely, Raila has demonstrated over and over again that he not only has
the temperament a leader must have, but also shown he has the humility surpassing that of any politician in Kenya. The handshake is but one example of the
man’s humility. Third, put the
two men in two corners with their political baggage stacked next to them and
visually inspect and you’ll notice one has tonnes of baggage and the other scarcely
any. Weighing heavily in one pile will be the challenger’s pile containing allegedly ill-gotten wealth and sacks of dirty money and that by itself may outweigh all
other considerations as to whether the man should be rewarded with nation’s presidency
and most voters will say a definitive No. There’s more
but this gives the reader a good summary of the road ahead for these two men
but, in the end, what one man does or does not do, is ultimately what will
determine who sees the inside of State House as our next President. That man is
none other than  Uhuru Kenyatta. There’s no
doubt the President is dancing between two delicate situations: On the one
hand, he must not appear to be throwing William Ruto under the bus, even though technically
speaking, if he does so, he will be doing
the right thing. He will be honouring his
commitment for the handshake that’s designed to heal the nation and put afoot a
new system that cures the political ills of the country. To be sure,
this is a dance the President must have and, if history and the man’s character
teaches us anything, it’s that it’s a dance the president is well suited to
dance very creatively and very well. We’re cheering
him on in the hopes and expectation when he leaves the stage, one man would
have the last laugh and that man won’t be WSR.  Samuel Omwenga is a legal analyst and political
commentator in the United States 