Bahati MP Kimani Ngunjiri has been the man in the news of late, famous for the so-called Washenzi movement, seen as a slap at President Uhuru Kenyatta, and prompting speculation that he is DP William Ruto’s attack dog. Yesterday, Ngunjiri told the Star, however, that there is no Washenzi movement — the term taken from Uhuru’s own insulting criticism of Central MPs who faulted him over development. Asked if he was serious about the ‘movement’, he said, “No. That was just a statement from boys having a talk. They made the T-shirts. We are past such movements and there’s no such formation.” The Ruto ally also said he had not been paid by Ruto to criticise the President’s development record in Central. “My age and principles do not allow me to be bribed. Assertions that I have been bribed hold no water. I’m only speaking what my people want me to,” Ngunjiri said during an interview at the Star offices in Nairobi. He said those making the claims are political orphans using turbulence in the Jubilee Party to make a political comeback. He referred to Narc Kenya’s Martha Karua and former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth. On Wednesday, they said Ngunjiri was being sponsored to attack Uhuru. SELF-MADE ENTREPRENEUR Biting the fingers of a fellow MP, tearing their clothes, supposedly (he denies this) pulling off the prosthetic limb of rival John Mbugua, allegedly engaging in hate speech — Ngunjiri makes headlines. But yesterday, in addition to explaining his political statements, he described himself as a lover of Mugithii, a farmer, a father of four and a devout Christian. He said a jig of Mugithii makes him feel “young again”. “I am very principled and a Christian. I love the book of God but duties sometimes put me in an awkward position. The disabled have a special place in my heart and I would do anything to help,” he said. He rubbished the Mbugua prosthetic limb story, saying Mbugua had gone to his home and apologised. “I love farming because that made me who I am today,” he said. “So when political temperatures are too much, when I go missing, I’m in my shamba. When politics drives me crazy, I chase everyone away and hang around with my children,” he said. Every Friday he drives to his home and meets delegations on Saturday, he said. He’s never worked for anyone. He started by growing dhania. He was a matatu driver. He sold charcoal and scrap metal. Now he has a farm and a trucking and tractor business. He boasts that he has never done any business with the national or county government. Three years ago, Ngunjiri was accused of chewing the finger of Dagoreti North MP Simba Arati after a confrontation erupted in the speaker’s gallery. Ngunjiri is well remembered for physically fighting former MP Koigi wa Wamwere for allegedly hurling insults at the first family. In another incident, the legislator took on former Machakos Senator Johnson Muthama and tore his clothes during the debate on the Security Bill in December 2014. He said that sometimes force, not prayer, is needed in confronting the devil. Ngunjiri was born at Banita Sisal Estate in 1953, the fifth born in a family of 10. He attended Michinda secondary school in Elburgon. He married Ruth Muthoni Kimani in 1979. They have two girls and two boys. The business breakthrough came when Massey Ferguson Company recognised him as a young entrepreneur with a fleet of tractors. His political career began after retired President Daniel Moi helped him solve a land issue in Kiamunyi. Then he was nominated as the Kanu chairman in Nakuru. He encountered influential people. Ngunjiri ran for the Bahati seat in 1997 and 2002 on the Kanu ticket, but suffered massive defeat due to the anti-Moi wave that swept the Kikuyu community.