What’s cooking within Jubilee or rather what’s Moses Kuria up to ? The vocal MP who is rumoured to have recently abandoned the William Ruto allied ‘TangaTanga’ team has been seen recently in various meetings with top officials of Democratic Party led by long time Mwai Kibaki ally Esau Kioni. Word has it that the Gatundu South legislator is close to taking over Kibaki’s old party with a view to using the outfit to launch his own Presidential bid in 2022. Politics is a dirty game, but Kenya’s is a one of musical chairs. It would be interesting to see if Kuria’s political moves would alter Mount Kenya dynamics. ******* A first term governor from Western Kenya is on the spot after interviewing candidates for public service board without requesting for memoranda as required by law.The said county boss shortlisted and published names of the nominees in newspapers without the input of county residents. Our mole intimated that the governor and his team invited their preferred candidates through SMS and left out the independent-minded ones without any response.The county chief is also on spot for interviewing ECDE teachers for employment without a public service board being in place. The county also employed 30 drivers without following procedure. Locals, some of whom were in his campaign team, have vowed to teach the governor a lesson should he seek a second term. **********  Commissioners who were too enthusiastic about a major ruling on a matter they were handling have all of a sudden developed cold feet and don't want to associate with the report anymore. How it has just turned to be a hot-potato to them is what has baffled observers. Reason? The commissioners who were happy and anxious about getting a pat on the back didn't have their aspiration met and they believe they were short-changed by their colleague who has been making numerous trips to one of the parties in the matter. They now want their colleague to carry on alone as they don't see any gains other than a tattered track record.  ********  A vocal governor from Mt Kenya known to be always keen and strict on how the staff in the county dress is now being avoided by the staff.  They cannot stomach daily comments on their attire. In many instances, the governor does not shy away from telling the staff how their cloths are not matching, colour-clashing or have not dressed well. As a result, the staff and aides have been running away from the governor to avoid embarrassment. They believe the governor should concentrate on service delivery and avoid trivia