Police will use 24-hour-speed guns on all the routes used by muguka transporters whom they blame for many of road accident. Eastern Region police boss Moses Ombati said the Embu to Nairobi transporters drive recklessly and with impunity, causing accidents in which people have died and/or injured. He said the drivers have been playing hide and seek with traffic officers by changing their times of operation depending on where police have placed their roadblocks. Ombati said the transporters, who normally use Probox cars, operate early in the morning or late at night to avoid the officers on duty. To curb the accidents, police needed the support of residents, he said. “We have received speed guns but these people have been avoiding arrest by transporting the produce very early in the morning. They will, however, not escape since we will use them for 24 hours and will be placed all over,” Ombati said. He said the police were determined to end the loss of lives by the transporters and cautioned politicians against incitement when arrests are made. The Eastern police boss said the action by the police against the transporters will be decisive and that anybody arrested will have his driving licence cancelled and charged with careless driving. Ombati was speaing at a local hotel in Mbeere South sub-county. He was the chief guest at an end of the year party for officers in the area. It was organised by the police administration led by OCPD Ahmed Mohammed. Ombat was reacting to complaints levelled against the transporters by Mbeti South ward representative Muriithi Kiura and Embu County Minority leader Lenny Mwaniki. The two said many deaths and maiming had been caused by the speedy and reckless miraa drivers. Kiura and Mwaniki called on the police to intervene, saying deaths and injuries inflicted on pedestrians along the routes were common occurrences. Some of the accidents were head-on collisions. The transporters argue that muguka has to be transported at high speed to retain their succulence by the time it gets to the market.