Gospel musician Reuben Kigame has said his life stopped for some time after he lost his wife in an accident 12 years ago. “It is not easy losing a friend because Mercy was a friend and my confidant,” Kigame told Word Is on Friday. “We grew up together. She was the girl of my youth and we faced challenges together for 15 years. Losing her was paralysing and I didn’t know that I could continue moving on because I didn’t know what was lying ahead. But through the encouragement of my pastors and friends, I realised I had to move on.” Kagame was left with the task of raising his kids, which he says has been fulfilling in his life. “Raising my kids, especially the girls, has been so great. I could even take them to the salon and wait for their hair to be done and even cook together with them. I like being with my family,” he said. Kagame later married his second wife Julie, with whom he has a son. The award-winning gospel artiste, who was also feted by former President Mwai Kibaki for his exemplary work in the industry, says he did not expect that Kibaki listened to his songs. “It felt so nice to know that the former President had an idea of who I am. I didn’t know he really knew me. It felt so wonderful. Since then, I learnt that it is always good to do your things when expected, and you never know, someone will recognise it,” he said. His latest song ‘Huniachi’, featuring Gloria Muliro, is familiar to most people, and he says it was a personal confession to God, having gone through too much in life. “He is gross and available for all of us. I had gone through a lot in life, like I had to shut down my radio station, losing in an election, and losing my longtime wife were some of the things I was looking at and reflecting on the whole journey with my God. It reminds me that God is amazing,” he said. Kagame describes himself as a ministry gospel artiste and not a gospel artiste in the industry. “I am in the music industry and I serve God and people. I live for God and people and all my songs are based on the scripture,” he said. “Every gospel artiste has his mission in the industry, depending on who called them, and that is what matters. Seasonal songs fade away with time.” Apart from singing, Kigame has also written two inspirational books, ‘The raw reflection’ and ‘Christian apologetic through African eyes’. Both are available on Amazon. He encourages young people to be the very best to themselves and stop comparing themselves with others because everyone is unique in their own ways.