Ford Kenya on Monday released its calendar of elections ahead of the National Delegates’ Conference in June. “As a party built on social democratic principles, we are set to ensure the whole exercise from polling stations elections to NDC is done in a fair and just manner,” party leader Moses Wetangula said in a statement. The delegates' conference will elect new officials to lead the party. They include the national chairperson, deputy chairperson and the secretary general. “In June, we will then wrap up with the National Delegates Council at the Bomas of Kenya," read part of the statement. The elections come at a time when former Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale is at loggerheads with party members over his dalliance with DP William Ruto. The deputy party leader has endorsed Ruto to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2022 despite Wetang'ula showing interest in the top seat. Grassroots polls will kick off in Central and Coast region at the end of this month. “We will have polls in Eastern and Nairobi counties in February. North Eastern, Rift Valley, and Nyanza will hold elections in March,” the statement read. “In April, we will be in Busia and Vihiga while Kakamega, Bungoma and Trans Nzoia we will be holding elections in May." “We will elect leaders from the ward, constituency, county and at the national level," said the statement. Secretary general Eseli Simiyu said enough time has been allocated to enable the party to monitor the polls. “We will continue building the party and ensure it remains a national outfit," he said. Ford Kenya has endorsed calls for a referendum which should focus on the interests of Kenyans. “We want to see inclusivity in the country's governance system as well addressing several issues that were not captured in the 2010 Constitution,” Eseli said. Wetang'ula said the Constitution has gaps and this the right time to rework it through another referendum. “We need to come together as a nation and decide the referendum question,” he said. Click here for the latest political news   