Nakuru governor Lee Kinyanjui has told off political leaders engaging in premature 2022 succession politics. Speaking in Nakuru on Monday, Kinyanjui said the debate within the Jubilee Party is a distraction to the government. "It is slightly over a year after the last election, and the clamour for the next flag bearers is gaining momentum. Debate on particular candidates is a major threat to the Jubilee manifesto and a burden to ordinary citizens," Kinyanjui said. The governor was reacting to remarks by the immediate former Jubilee vice chairman David Murathe and some leaders who have been speaking about who succeeds President Uhuru Kenyatta. Murathe has vowed to use the Supreme Court to stop Deputy President William Ruto from vying in 2022. He said Ruto should retire together with Uhuru since they were elected as a pair to serve for the constitutionally acceptable two terms. Kinyanjui said such a debate is also detrimental to the development of political parties. "While the parties are meant to plan and execute their succession in a civil and orderly manner, the debate is extended to non-party members and made a national debate in funerals and church meetings," he said. Also read: I will use Supreme Court, Murathe says on bid to stop Ruto presidency Kinyanjui said Jubilee, like other mature political parties, has a dispute resolution mechanism to settle its differences. "Why would senior party officials find it appropriate to drag a whole nation to a party affair? It is irresponsible and reckless to say the least," he said. Leaders should learn to use appropriate channels and desist from whipping public emotions unnecessarily. This could jeopardise the prevailing peace and stability, the governor said. Kinyanjui said that given the prolonged 2017 campaigns and the subsequent repeat presidential polls, the economy suffered. "Companies are facing harsh economic times, unemployment and inflation are bound to escalate rapidly if leaders do not work in unity," he said. Kinyanjui said the permanent cycle of electioneering and incessant infighting is a dangerous recipe for a country with soaring youth unemployment and declining productivity. "Leaders must come together and rally around the common problems of unemployment and help implement the Big Four agenda," he said. "Kenyans want services to improve their lives. Leaders should desist from taking Kenyans through another round of premature electioneering," he said. Click here for the latest political news 