Athletics Kenya (AK) have put on notice rogue road race organisers as they seek to streamline the sport going forward. In Press statement, AK said there has been increase in illegal races across the country where a few road organisers have turned participating athletes into cash cows. “As you are all aware AK are the only body in the country charged with the organisation of all athletics activities locally and therefore, no any other body has the mandate to execute the same,” said a statement in part. “However, we have noted with concern the mushrooming of illegal road races across the country and the trend is really worrying. We are aware a few individuals have turned to road races around the country into a cash cow at the expense of the athletes,” the statement added. AK has at the same time vowed to take charge of all road races with the help of their affiliates to ensure organisers do not take advantage of the runners and at the same warned to take action against those hell bent to create confusion with the athletics circles. “A few races organised especially in some parts of the country have been run with the sole purpose of exploiting runners. This is a very disturbing trend that needs to stop forthwith. As we all know, there are procedures under which races should be organised and this needs to be followed to the letter,” said AK statement “We will not hesitate to take action against those hell bent to create confusion within the athletics circles. We have very organised structures to take care of all road races as long as the right procedure is followed. Cases of organisers squandering the winners money have been rampant and the complains from the runners are growing by the day,” AK noted. The national federation advised race organisers to follow the right procedure when staging a race and reiterated their commitment to stop doping “One must get a permit from AK before staging any race. Professionalism is key in hosting races and certain parameters must be adhered to when executing the same. For example, we must factor in things like the race fee; prize money, which of course has a ceiling set by AK; security, medical cover and general officiating standards. Doping is also key and AK will work closely with Anti-Doping Agency of Kenya to ensure the exercise is well executed in every race.”