Rarely does a player contracted by a club reveal his intentions of switching to a rival club but that is exactly what injured Sofapaka defender, Humphrey Okoti has done. The burly defender sensationally disclosed that he is angling for a move to struggling Mount Kenya United after three years with Batoto Ba Mungu. Okot, a two-time title winning defender with Tusker, said he is seeking a new challenge as he draws close to ending his career that began way back at defunct Mahakama over a decade ago. “Yes, I  am looking forward to joining Mount Kenya United should they give me a good offer. I had talked to coach Melis Medo and he is keen to have me move with him to Mount Kenya,” said Okot. “I worked with the coach briefly but I enjoyed every single session with him as a trainer and as a person, and I would like to play under him again,” said Okot in revelations that will no doubt irk the Sofapaka hierarchy. Okot has been out of action the whole of January as he continues to recover from a hamstring injury he sustained early in the campaign. The player has been undergoing treatment and physiotherapy at the Kenyatta Hospital and he remains confident that he would return to the pitch by the beginning of next month. “I can now do some light training like jogging but the doctors are confident I can resume full training at the end of the month and hopefully get back to the pitch in early February,” Okot revealed. Should he get his wish and join Mount Kenya, who are bottom of the league with three points from nine matches, it will be a sign of confidence in the ability of Medo to turn things around and provide the kind of miracle he did last season when he helped the club, then known as Nakumatt, avoid relegation. On Wednesday, the American tactician came within a whisker of ending the club’s win-less streak since the start of the campaign only to be denied by a last gasp goal by Justin Onwonga as they drew 1-1 with Ulinzi Stars. Mount Kenya will continue their search for a first win when they visit Sudi Stadium to play Nzoia Sugar tomorrow.