Two Jubilee Party MPs on Monday challenged President Uhuru Kenyatta to come out and state his stand over the former vice chairman David Murathe's remarks over DP William Ruto's 2022 presidential bid. MPs John Waluke (Sirisia) and Halima Mucheke (nominated) said while they still believe Uhuru will support Ruto's bid in 2022, "it is wise for him to distance himself from Murathe". "But who is sending Murathe to abuse the DP? The President should come out clearly and state his position. Some of his dogs are barking and we do not know who is sending them,” Waluke said during a press conference at Parliament Buildings. He called on Uhuru to stick to the 2013 deal between URP and TNA where the MP said the President was to serve for 10 years and support Ruto for another 10 years. “Recently I was in London with him and I asked him about the deal and he responded saying he will stand by it and support the DP. That deal exists and we expect him to support Ruto,” he said. Waluke urged the President to be wary of ODM leader Raila Odinga saying he has a history of causing friction and break up in political parties. Read: Murathe quits Jubilee party, maintains Ruto not fit for president He added that since the March 9, 2018 handshake between Uhuru and Raila, the Jubilee party has experienced turmoil. The Sirisia MP said Ruto supported the Uhuru and “he should not be dumped because they have gotten what they wanted” insisting that majority of MPs are fully behind the DP. Mucheke said were it not for Ruto, Jubilee would not be in power now celebrating the exit of Murathe. “The resignation of Murathe is good riddance to rubbish. We did not expect him to talk badly about the Ruto who is also the deputy party leader,” she said. She pointed out that Ruto has been to various parts of the country rolling out the Jubilee-promised projects and it was now in bad faith to brand him corrupt or call him names. “The DP has worked with all the Jubilee leaders very well. He supports all of us, when we have problems, we reach him as he is just a phone call away,” Mucheke said. Read Also: Murathe: We are ready for new coalition Click here for the latest political news 