Deputy President William Ruto yesterday asked civil servants to align themselves with President Uhuru Kenyatta's executive order on government reorganisation. Uhuru on Tuesday appointed Interior CS Fred Matiang'i to chair the National Development Implementation and Communication Cabinet Committee that comprises all Cabinet secretaries, Attorney-General Paul Kihara and Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua.The move was seen as a plan to clip the powers of Ruto. Uhuru unveiled the plan on Tuesday during a meeting with regional coordinators and county commissioners in Mombasa. The president directed the administrators to take charge of national government development projects in their jurisdictions, all of which will be supervised by Matiang'i. In a tactical move, the DP yesterday asked government officers to comply with the order "Government officers at all levels should align their operations with the order issued by the President for effective implementation of projects and efficient communication," Ruto said on Twitter. Ruto, by virtue of his position as DP, is the principal assistant to the president. However, by assigning Matiang’i the responsibility of chairing the Cabinet Implementation Committee, speculation is rife Uhuru is cutting his deputy down to size by reducing his influence in government ahead of the 2022 general Election. Ruto's tweet came barely an hour after Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli attacked the DP even as he backed the changes announced by the President. Atwoli asked Ruto to play ball if he expects to succeed Uhuru in 2022. The Cotu boss cited the case of ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi whose quest to take over from Mwai Kibaki flopped in 2013. "The business community opposed Mudavadi and Cotu supported the move because he (Mudavadi) introduced redundancy without consultation with the unions when minister. He never became president,” Atwoli said. Atwoli said the reorganisation in government will tame politicians known for dishing out projects to their loyalists, a move he says threatens national unity. “Uhuru is now rising up to the occasion. He is now trying to show us he is a President. He is supposed to protect us, if he is weak and he leaves that role to his deputy, we will take our loyalty to his deputy,” Atwoli said. The veteran unionist said ongoing changes in government will ensure equality in the distribution of national projects. “If we do not talk, Uhuru will be a prisoner of individuals. Matiang'i is one person we have tested. He is not a failure and will make a difference wherever you post him. Let him hold the Cabinet together.” On Wednesday, Ruto allies raised questions on what the changes would mean for the Deputy President considering his 2012 power-sharing agreement with Uhuru. The DP has been conducting tours across the country to inspect, commission and launch government projects, a function now seen to have been delegated to Matiang'i.