ARE entrepreneurs running conservancies getting cheeky with elephant orphanages? This is according to growing questions over the rampant acquisition of so-called orphaned elephant calves being put under their care to attract top paying tourists in the name of adoption and feeding. Insiders, including state ranchers, have whispered to corridors that the race to have calve elephants has seen some use underhand tactics. Some spray newborn calves with chemicals forcing their mothers to reject them, others use scare tactics. Others literally kill elephants that have delivered to get the calves. The madness is fuelled by nothing, but greed. A source lamented to Corridors that the immoral conduct has been ongoing unabated. They asked Tourism CS Najib Balala (pictured) to investigate the matter or else all our elephants will be wiped out not by poachers but those who pride themselves as conservationists. A commissioner with one of the independent commission is a worried man. Why? A female staffer is shopping for a lawyer to help mount a sexual harassment charge against the him. The amorous man has been reaching out to the lady and her friends to try to persuade her out of the legal route to no avail. This comes after another commissioner at the same commission had to buy off the silence of a female clerk whom he impregnated. When the news of their philandering broke out, the commissioner tried to run away from it until the pregnancy could no longer be hidden. The lady’s silence was bought by keeping her on the payroll as well as sending her on an all-expenses paid study programme abroad. AN MP on the radar of the police has found a safe haven in city hostels where he is in hiding since news broke out that he was a marked man. The flamboyant lawmaker is said to have abandoned his posh home in an upmarket city estate and is instead holed up at boys’ only hostel as he tries to send emissaries to his accusers to have them drop the case and settle the matter out of court. The legislator is said to be changing hostels hoping to make it difficult for police officers following his trail to catch up with him. A former powerful governor, is at it again. After losing his seat in the 2017 general election, the man has turned to MPs and MCAs whose campaigns he bankrolled. He wants them to bankroll his lavish lifestyle as part of his strategy to recoup his money. An MP was heard complaining that the man wants a cool Sh200,000 every month. Click here for the latest political news