Ambitious Bandari coach Bernard Mwalala has challenged his charges not to succumb to pressure when they tackle pre match favourites Simba SC today in the semi-finals of the SportPesa Cup at National Stadium Dar-es-salaam. Simba have made it their culture to fill the 60,000 seater facility to the brim in their home matches, creating unfavourable atmosphere for the visiting teams but Mwalala insists the players should concentrate on squeezing a win against all odds. Bandari had Ugandan William Wadri to thank as his sole goal against Singida United saw them sail to the last four and Mwalala will look up to Wycliffe Ochomo and Hassan Abdalla to break the stubborn Simba’s defence. “It’s going to be a tough match but the 90 minutes will determine the winner. The atmosphere will highly favour the home team but I want the boys to learn to play before such crowds. We are ready for the match. At the end, we know we winner of the tournament will play Everton and that is enough to motivate my players.” The fixture had been earlier thrown to doubt after AFC Leopards lodged a complain with the tournament’s organisers alleging that Simba had fielded a unrecognised player in their 2-1 quarter-final defeat. Leopards had protested that Simba’s centre half Lamine Moro had been drafted into the squad contrary to the tournament rules which stipulated that all players would produce their license cards from the federations of the countries where they ply their trade but their complain fell on deaf ears. Ingwe claimed that Moro, who is rumoured to be on trials with Simba had a running contract with Zambia’s Buildcom FC and did not produce his Tanzanian Football Federation (TFF) license. His credentials on the International Transfer Matching Systems (ITMS) also indicated that he was a contracted players with Buildcom. However, the Tanzania’s International Matches Organizing Committee (IMOC) quashed their claims and confirmed that Moro registered with TFF early in January and had met the tournament’s participation threshold. “We have received your protest letter on the above-named Simba Sports SC player. IMOC would like to respond and inform you that the player named Lamine Moro from Buildcon FC (Zambia) was registered by Simba SC and approved by the Tanzania Football Federation with license No. 002821M94 issued on January 15 as per the SportPesa Cup 2019 regulations, Section 5.5,” read part of the letter from the committee’s chairman Ahmed Mugoyi to Ingwe. With the case already heard and determined, Simba who are hotly favoured to claim this year’s edition will look to draw inspiration from their quarter final match against Leopards which they won 2-1. Simba head coach Patrick Aussems exuded confidence that this year’s edition is theirs to lose but warned his charges of wastefulness in front of the goal. He described Bandari as a quality opponent. “I believe this time round the title will remain in the country and in our possession. We played well in the first match although I wasn’t impressed with the number of chances the strikers squandered. I watched Bandari against Singida and they played well. I feel they are a quality opponent.”