Arguably,
2018 has been the worst year in as far as killings by police is concerned. Extrajudicial
killings hit the airwaves in various parts of the country, especially in Mombasa,
Nairobi, Kisumu and Nakuru, among other towns. The recent incident in Trans
Nzoia, where an officer shot and killed villagers is one such example of how
police have been linked to such killings. Human rights groups have recorded
chilling figures, running into hundreds, of killings by police. Many have accused
the police of being trigger happy and quick of shooting to kill. On
the other hand, communities have complained of worsening security and crime
levels in the country. Criminal youths were involved in muggings and attacks
that left many innocent Kenyans dead and/or injured. In Mombasa, for example, gangs,
including Wakali Kwanza and Wajukuu wa Bibi have been involved in serious
crimes armed with machetes and pangas. In
one incident in Kisauni, an officer was stabbed and killed. Crime reached
unprecedented levels to the extent that communities began supporting the
killing of these youths by police. They complained that the youth had gotten
out of hand, killing and maiming at will and to be tamed, police were justified
to kill. In some cases, communities publicly lynched suspects. When
human rights groups such as Haki Africa came out to condemn these killings,
police, some politicians and community members came out strongly to defend them.
They accused human rights groups of taking sides and supporting criminals.
Nothing can be further from the truth. We speak out in defence of the rule of
law and respect for human rights. The Constitution and the laws of Kenya are
clear that every person is innocent until proven guilty by a court of law. It
is important to note here that it is only the court of law that can confirm
guilt. Not the police, not the public. It is therefore wrong for police and/or
public to become the jury and executioner at the same time. The law provides
that a suspect should be apprehended and charged. If found guilty, then jailed
for the specified period. This is a process the police and the public must
understand, respect and adhere to. This
year should herald a new beginning. Towards the end of last year, the Director
of Public Prosecutions and Director of Criminal Investigations came out
strongly to communicate that the state does not and will not tolerate extrajudicial
killings. Interior CS Fred Matiang’i, also said his ministry does not support these
killings, and that rogue officers will face the full wrath of the law. If the
words of these top government officers are to be taken seriously, then we should
see drastic changes in security sector reforms. If the top leadership of security
and criminal justice take zero tolerance to extrajudicial killings, then the
country should realise a new era of human rights and rule of law. On
the side of the community, parents, politicians and religious leaders should
play their rightful role in guiding and counselling the youth. It is a fact
that many youths are involved in crime. Before the youth go to the communities
and engage in crime, parents, politicians and religious leaders should provide
the necessary supervision and be role models to the young. When parents chew
khat, politicians engage in corruption and religious leaders defile and
sodomise the young, they fail to be good examples. Youth have lost a sense of
belonging and have no mentors. Only by changing the entire criminal justice
system and social lives of the people will we be able to address the security
concerns of the country. Kenya requires a complete overhaul in the political,
social and economic spheres. This can be the year we achieve this. 