A plot has been hatched to present ODM as an intolerant and undemocratic party responsible for the Coast’s problems. The region’s lawmakers associated with members Aisha Jumwa of Malindi and Suleiman Dori of Msambweni are behind the scheme.ODM’s National Executive Council on Thursday ratified that the duo be expelled from the party. The expulsion has been forwarded to ODM’s final decision-making organ, the National Governing Council. Should the NGC approve NEC’s recommendation, the Registrar of Political Parties will be informed. Their names will be struck from the party’s roll, the Speaker of the National Assembly will be informed of the action to declare the seats vacant and by-elections announced. The Star has been briefed on plans to undermine ODM ahead of possible by-elections. A source said a movement will be launched next weekend to fight the party. Rallies to dismiss NEC’s punishment and attack leaders, including Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho, who is ODM’s face at the Coast, will be held. On Thursday, Nyali MP Mohamed Ali said, “This is not a party war. It’s a Coastal war by someone who thinks he should be treated as a king. Governors must respect voters who elected these leaders. You’ve declared war and we’ll bring it to your doorstep.” Ali was one of the 15 Coast MPs who were called to a meeting with DP William Ruto at his Karen office on Thursday. The meeting, called by Ruto, was to reassure them that although pressure is mounting, everything is under control. “He will tell Kenyans about it all on national television. I think he might be on Citizen’s JKL next week,” one of the MPs who attended the meeting said. Ruto told the legislators not to relent, dismissing the elevation of Interior CS Fred Matiang’i to ‘Super CS’ as nothing to be worried about. He said the CS has only been handed roles that used to be carried out by Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua. “He told us he expects to be fought because he is the heir to the throne,” said the MP, who did not want to be identified, said. Others at the meeting included Jumwa, Dori, Ali Mbogo (Kisauni), Paul Katana (Kaloleni), Athman Shariff (Lamu East), Jones Mlolwa (Voi), Getrude Mbeyu (Kilifi county), Said Hiribae (Galole) and Badi Twalib (Jomvu). Katana said the focus must be on services to the people, not politicking about 2022. “We want to move forward. These small issues of who went where to meet who do not help mwananchi. Let focus on issues that affect the country like food security, education, insecurity,” Katana said on the phone on Friday before flying out to Hungary. He said MPs are elected leaders who are constitutionally allowed to meet anyone. music to DP’s ear All the leaders that suffered at the hands of ODM, either by losing their seats after rebelling or failing to win in last primaries, will be roped-in. The new surge is reportedly heavily bankrolled and has members associated with Ruto. On Friday, it was unclear whether Ruto will be funding the onslaught. He has been eating into ODM boss Raila Odinga’s Coast base and the rebellion is music to his ears. At the heart of the attack squad are ODM mutinous MPs Jumwa, Dori and Twalib. MPs Ali, Ken Chonga (Kilifi South) and Mlolwa are united in the plan. Owen Baya (Kilifi North) and Mbeyu are said to be part of the team. However, Ganze MP Teddy Mwabire, who is loyal to ODM and Joho, said the plans are doomed. “ODM is not shaken. If you’re keen, only two ODM members addressed the media when Dori and Jumwa reacted to NEC’s plan — Twalib and Mlolwa. The rest, close to eight were non-members,” he said.  ‘wild’ claims against joho Mwambire said Dori and Jumwa should prepare for a serious challenge irrespective of who is funding them. “The plans will be their own grave,” he said. He said wild allegations against Joho won’t earn them sympathy. Joho’s communication director Richard Chacha said the governor is not behind the MPs woes. “The issue was competently handled by the party organ,” he said.Mombasa ODM chair Mohamed Hatimy said it is foolhardy to pick fights that one cannot win. “If they think the Orange party is a pushover, let them try their luck. The party has rules and regulations that have to be strictly adhered to,” Hatimy said. In Kilifi, there is mixed reaction over ODM’s decision on Thursday. Three MCAs said the decision was timely and they are ready for a by-election to ‘teach’ Jumwa a lesson. The ODM ward reps Nixon Muramba (Kakuyuni), Peter Ziro (Garashi) and Daniel Chai Chiriba of Jilore said the Malindi MP made it to Parliament through ODM but decided to support Ruto at the expense of her party. Muramba said more than 40 ODM MCAs do not support her. She is left with only three MCAs who are also planning their exit strategy, he said. Those allied to the MP, however, said she is innocent and asked the ODM National Governing Council to forgive her. SELECTIVE PUNISHMENT Malindi ODM chairman Hosea Chome said in an interview on Friday that Jumwa does not deserve such a severe punishment because she worked hard for the party and Malindi. Chome asked why it was only the Malindi MP and Dori who were being victimised while many leaders are supporting the Deputy President.