Kenya Prisons women’s team suffered a major blow after all their targets from Kwanthanze Secondary School joined rivals Kenya Pipeline ahead of the Kenya Voleyball Federation (KVF) league The Kwanthanze quartet of Betty Sifuna, Esther Mutinda, Gladys Ekaru and Metrine Wanjala have snubbed Kenya Prisons’ call up to settle for a more lucrative deal at Kenya Pipeline. The four have been busy training with Pipeline since Monday. Apart from setter Mutinda, the other three players were part of the national under-20 team that  participated in the World Championship qualifier last year in Nairobi. The four, according to reports, were expected to join reigning champions Kenya Prisons’ as per the mutual agreement between the two institutions. However, the four have opted for a new home at Pipeline due to a lucrative contract, leaving Prisons scratching their heads. The arrival of the four wouldn’t have come at a better time as the oilers seek to fill the void left by seven players who shifted camp to Kenya Commercial Bank and Kenya Defence Forces teams respectively. Sifuna (left attacker/libero), Wanjala (left), Mutinda (setter) and Ekaru (centre/right) are expected to fill the positions left by Noel Murambi, Leonida Kasaya, Jemimah Siangu, Truphosa Samoei, Violet Makuto, Veronica Tanui and Christine Njambi in that order. Fast-rising Mutinda, who is tipped to replace national team setters Janet Wanja and Jane Wacu, said she is glad to be at Pipeline and promised to fight for her space in the club and the national team. The 19-year-old said: “I have always looked up to Wacu and Wanja for the longest time and I respect them. However, I’m here to fight for my space but more so to help Pipeline return to where they are supposed to be.” “Things at the club level are done differently compared to school. For instance we are now accessing gym—something we haven’t been doing at school and we want to make use of the available facilities and make ourselves better players. Overall, so far I am happy here.”