The spread of water hyacinth in Lake Victoria has drawn the concern of MPs from the counties bordering the lake. They want the national government to urgently put up modalities of dealing with the weed. The MPs include Millie Odhiambo (Suba North), Adipo Okuome (Karachuonyo), Tom Odege (Nyatike) and Gideon Ochanda (Bondo) The water hyacinth is paralysing transport activities and fishing within the lake. Odhiambo says the menace has impeded the water bus and ferry from operating in the lake. “Our people have remained jobless. Lake Victoria water transport is no longer working. It has been paralysed due to the weed,” she says. Okuome and Odege say fishermen in Lake Victoria are a troubled lot. “The government should get ways of ensuring water hyacinth seeds are killed to avoid germinating,” Okume says. Odege says the government should come up with a suitable way of protecting Lake Victoria after the Blue Economy summit in Nairobi. “The government will realise its four agenda of economic growth through conserving Lake Victoria. Let the lake be protected for sustainable development,” Odege says. The Nyatike legislator also urged the government to address boundary rows between Kenyan fishermen and Ugandan and Tanzanian security officers. “The lake is a noble resource since most people from Nyanza region draw their livelihood from it. Security of our fishermen is part of development,” he says. In November, a parliamentary select committee led by Ochanda visited the place where the water hyacinth harvester is stalled in Kisumu. The committee promised to summon Environment CS Keriako Tobiko to shed light on why the machine has stalled. The Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project bought the equipment after it was proven that the weed can be mechanically removed from the Lake. The committee on Regional Integration and Northern Corridor said Tobiko will appear before them to explain why the machine has stalled for three years at the Kisumu inland port. The hyacinth harvester can harvest 2.8ha covered by the water weed in eight hours. MILLIONS WASTED? Ochanda says it was unfortunate that a machine bought for Sh70 million (partly grant and partly loan from the World Bank) has stalled all these years, yet hyacinth is choking the lake. The committee resolved to write a report on the condition of the machine before summoning the CS and PS. “We have spoken with the management of LVEMP II and they have said some hooks are still missing from the machine,” Ochanda says. He says the committee was satisfied that the ministry has failed in its implementation role to help curb the hyacinth menace. “We cannot blame the commission because it has already done its part of sourcing finance. The problem is at the implementation stage, which is now under Ministry of Environment,” Ochanda says. “The hooks that are making the machine not work cost a mere Sh2 million, which can be paid.” The committee questioned why the government had to wait three years since the machine stalled. A senior officer with LVEMP II, Isaac Ngugi, was hard-pressed to explain why the machine and the procurement process had stalled. “Our fishermen cannot continue to suffer due to hyacinth, yet there is a machine stalled at the lake now for three years,” said Kasipul Kabondo MP Eve Obara, also a member of the select committee. Ngugi said there are some unfinished businesses with the supplier that are still being sorted out to facilitate the procurement.