Kenya Volleyball Federation (KVF) technical director, David Lung’aho could be headed to the Kenya Pipeline women’s team, according to sources within the club. Sources hinted that Lung’aho has already held initial talks with the Kenya Pipeline management and he is due to finalise on the deal this week ahead of the season. The rumours seems to collaborate with his comments on his social media page. His first comment on Saturday read: “There comes a time when one has to make strong decision.” This was followed with another comment hours later which read: “2019 new beginnings, new things. Happy New Year 2019; lets meet across the net.” The sources indicated that the former national women’s team coach is expected to fill the gap left by Japheth Munala who returned to his former club, Kenya Commercial Bank this year. Another source in the volleyball circles said: “We can’t rule out the reports of Lug’aho’s latest move. As we speak, Pipeline do not have a coach and they are shopping for one. If you ask me, he is better placed to fill the gap left by Munala. However, I am aware talks are ongoing to have him take the reigns at Kenya Pipeline. It’s just a matter of time and he will be giving orders from the side.” The source added: “I know Lung’aho would be interested in such an opportunity especially after he was recently moved from the Prisons women’s to men’s team. We all know the coach is good with training the women sides plus Kenya Pipeline are giving him a good package. However, we have just to wait and see.” Reached for comment, Lung’aho was noncommittal. “I have also heard of the rumours but time will tell.” Meanwhile, the former champions Pipeline start training today ahead of this season’s KVF League under the assistant coach and former national team player Margaret Indakala at the Embakasi Pipeline grounds. Indakala has been deputising Munala and it will be interesting to see how she handles the team in his absence as they await the new coach to be unveiled. The team that lost seven players to KCB ahead of this season is looking forward to welcome team captain Triza Atuka who has fully recovered from stomach surgery. The seven players who exited are Noel Murambi, Violet Makuto, Leonida Kasaya, Truphosa Samoei, Veronica Tanui, Jemimah Siangu and Christine Njambi.