ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and Ford Kenya’s Moses Wetang’ula have been cautioned against creating enmity with Deputy President William Ruto. The caution came yesterday only a few hours after Mudavadi on Wednesday ruled out the possibility of working with Ruto ahead of the 2022 presidential election. Both Mudavadi and Ruto are expected to be in the race to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta. Clerics, led by Kakamega Grassroots Pastors Fellowship chairman Zablon Mukoshi, said Mudavadi and Wetang’ula should also be wary of creating enmity with ODM chief Raila Odinga. On Monday, Ruto met a group of pastors at the home of Lurambi MP Titus Khamala and urged them to back his State House bid in 2022. “Our two sons should know that they need Raila, Ruto and Uhuru if they are to clinch the presidency. Creating enmity with the DP could cost them the top seat,” Mukoshi said. He noted that Raila abandoned his colleagues in Nasa to join Uhuru in government. “They should not be blinded by the handshake to lean towards Raila,” Mukoshi said. Mudavadi has previously said Ruto is a competitor because he has already taken a position in the succession race. “Let us not live in fantasy,” he said in Kakamega last November. Ruto has enhanced his charm offensive to western Kenya with frequent visits to convince voters to back his presidential bid. NEW ALLY He has been in the region launching development projects, conducting fundraisers for churches and delivering buses to schools. On Monday, the DP addressed a huge crowd after presiding over a bullfighting event at Malinya. His newfound ally Boni Khalwale said it was the biggest rally ever. “In my political journey spanning over 20 years no presidential aspirant has addressed a bigger rally in Malinya,” said the former Kakamega senator. Yesterday, Mukoshi said personalised campaigns will divide the country. “Politicians should understand that not all of them can lead at the same time and embrace each other in their quest for power.” Both Mudavadi and Ruto have been crisscrossing the country in search for support for their bids to power when Uhuru retires in 2022. While Mudavadi has put emphasis on Coast and Central Kenya in his tours, Ruto has frequented the Coast and Western regions to make new allies and bolster his campaigns.