The Education ministry has ordered school heads not to impose extra — and illegal — levies on parents with children reporting to Form 1. The ministry has warned it will discipline principals who seek extra money from parents. The reporting for Form 1 students ends today. Parents affected by the extra levy are seeking a refund of illegal payments they have made to schools. “We commend the government for coming out to protect the interests of parents. Parents deserve a refund for the loss they have incurred on the extra levy during these hard economic times,” Kenya Parents Association chairman Nicholas Maiyo told the Star yesterday. Earlier this week, a check by the Star revealed that despite the principals’ adhering to the ministry’s school fees guideline, they have devised other ways to overcharge for other admission requirements. Parents say some schools require students to purchase uniforms in the schools on admission. The prices of uniforms have been hiked. Others illegal requirements include telling students to purchase at least one item of sports equipment such as a hockey stick. Some are required to buy a ream of paper. Some schools have failed to provide a fee clearance receipt, with a breakdown of how the funds will be spent. Some schools still charge a medical fee of Sh500 to Sh1,000, despite students having NHIF cover. Director of Quality Assurance at the Ministry of Education Pius Mutisya yesterday said the ministry will punish rogue school heads. “The ministry won’t hesitate to take action against boards of management violating admission regulations by asking for more than personal belongings and capped school fees,” he told the Star on the phone. Mutisya urged parents to only pay the amount on the fees structure provided by the government. He told them to report incidents of students turned away for not paying higher fees. They should report to their regional education coordinators and county directors of education for action. More: Principals to be punished for charging fees in public primary schools - Ruto Click here for
the latest political news