Africa's most
anticipated election finally happened. After two years of waiting, the
Congolese voted for President Joseph Kabila’s successor. Many thought after
delaying the election for two years, Kabila had run out of tricks. However, keen
observers knew he was not going to go quietly. After all, he had
attempted to change the Constitution to give himself a new term and only backed
off after pressure.  He then tried to install a pawn as in his handpicked
former Prime Minister Emmanuel Ramazani Shadary, but the Congolese people
wouldn’t fall for that. No one saw his most
audacious plan coming — the deal with opposition figure Felix Tshisekedi —
whose controversial win was confirmed by the Constitutional Court. What was even more
stunning was the capitulation of Tshisekedi campaign ideals and his quick
embrace of Kabila. "I pay tribute to
President Joseph Kabila, and today we should no longer see him as an adversary,
but rather, a partner in democratic change in our country,” Tshikesedi said
prompting allegations of a power-sharing deal with Kabila’s party. It was
a shameless power grab. According to the powerful Catholic Church, which had
40,000 election monitors in the country, the third runner-up had been declared
winner making a mockery of the election. In unprecedented move,
the African Union issued a surprise last minute call for Kabila’s government to
suspend the final results citing “serious doubt” about them. In an embarrassing
U-turn, the proposed AU delegation to Congo to find “a solution to the
post-electoral crisis” was cancelled following the court judgment, signaling
that,organisation may once again do nothing about fraudulent elections. Martin Fayulu, another
opposition leader and the likely winner of the election based on the
influential Catholic Church alleged Tshisekedi came nowhere near victory. With
the judges now confirming him as the winner, Kabila has rewritten the African
election theft book. Does it surprise anyone
that an opposition in Africa has ‘lost’ an election and is crying election
fraud. This time, in an unprecedented situation, it’s alleged that the state
helped another rival opposition to win. The farce that followed
the DRC elections started with Zambia’s President Edgar Lungu, as chair of Sadc
politics arm, calling for a unity government only to withdraw his proposed plan
to allow for a petition, and finally endorsing Tshisekedi as the winner. The continent is divided
on the way forward: Sadc has endorsed Tshisekedi, while DRC neighbours — Republic
of Congo, Uganda, Rwanda, Zambia and Angola — have remained silent. Some are
still advocating for a “government
of national unity”, which is AU’s default solution.
Kenya
and Zimbabwe had this arrangement in 2008. The last election in Kenya was
finally settled by a handshake. With many politicians learning new tricks, a
handshake (for Tshisekedi) allegedly happened even before the vote. Even the much-trusted
Catholic Church, which claimed electoral fraud, has failed to release its own
results, probably fearing sparking violence. This would have given some
evidence to Fayulu legal team. The endorsement by some African leaders and Sadc
has left only Fayulu calling for protests. If this succeeds, it may come at a cost
of many lives explaining why AU is likely to do nothing about the alleged fraud. But why do most African
elections results have to always end up in courts? Is this symptomatic of a
failure of liberal democracy or, it’s deficiency in addressing elections in
Africa? “Diehards of liberal democracy
are of the view that a backroom deal” that goes against the actual election results
would be non-democratic,” Sasha Lezhnev, deputy director of policy at the US-based
Enough Project said. “The United States, Sadc,
and the European Union should respond strongly with sanctions if that occurs,” Lezhnev
recommended. However, with key
opposition leaders such as Raila Odinga strangely congratulating TShisekedi, the
mooted deal between the new President and Kabila’s party is now eminent. To understand why “backroom
deals and unity governments” are common, and why DRC is not going to be any
different, one has to analyse liberal democracy principles and its assumptions,
especially when it comes to voting. Democracy is desirable
and has potential to transform politics in many African countries, only if it
can adapt to diverse continental realities: That many people are more unlikely
to vote for what is not necessarily in their best interest as individuals but
vote more as a community, a tribe or even region. This is because voting this
way is the basis of their basic survival. Political elites are thus likely to
exploit this situation. And numbers don’t add up, “handshakes” and “backroom
deal” remain the only way they stay relevant in their communities. The DRC election was not
different and that’s why the government prevented an estimated
one million voters from voting, citing the Ebola outbreak, in regions,
observers say, would not have voted in line with the government. The Liberal democracy is
applied in Africa based on an assumption that people vote mainly due to their
individual “rational choice” (what is individually considered as the best
choice) and the need to protect their personal property and interests. This individualistic
approach to democracy is a not always suited for many community leaning African
societies. This is not to say individual choices do not exist or not important
in Africa but, an acknowledgement of realities on the continent. In fact, if
Fayulu had been declared the winner, Tshisekedi supporters would have also
cried fraud. Away from the continent,
democratic elections are developed alongside system such as welfare state (the
government is capable of providing basic needs such as health, education and
security). People don’t have to think about leaning back to family networks for
basic welfare needs. In absence of strong governments in DRC since
independence, people will continue to vote on regional and tribal lines. Let’s not forget that
even in Western Europe where liberal democracy started, voting is still very
much aligned to class systems and identity. Similar like saying, “I vote Labour
in the UK because I am from working class background”. So, to acknowledge that many
people in Africa will vote along tribes and regions should be an
acknowledgement of our realities (and even adopted in their electoral systems). Kabila may not still be
in charge but influential. His party won more seats and Tshisekedi is almost
going to be used as be a puppet. This being the reality, it's important that
liberal democracy be revised to suit African community setting.   Mugaju is a Ugandan writer and blogger. 