Happy New Year! So I have good news and bad news. The good news is that you survived 2018, and are lucky to read this on the first day of 2019. The bad news is, there are about six months in Njaanuary, and bills, fees, etc are due in a few days. You have probably woken up today full of hope for the possibilities that the New Year will bring, and maybe even came up with a few resolutions. Most resolutions are short term and never live to see next month but as a nation, what are our resolutions for 2019? Let us take this day and together put down the resolutions we need, as a nation, not only to be become better but also to offer the best of all Kenyan citizens. 2018 had its fair share of challenges as well as many wins that we ought to build on. In 2018, we experienced a surge in the fight against corruption from a re-energised multi-agency team led by the Director of Public Prosecution and his criminal investigations counterpart. We have seen more people arraigned in court for corruption than ever before and assets worth billions of shillings frozen. Therefore, in 2019, let’s resolve to slay the dragon of corruption. Without a doubt, corruption is a cancer that must be cured and all patriots of goodwill must come together and condemn it. In 2019, we must drown those uncouth calls of “our people are being targetted” whenever a big shot in netted for corruption. When those big shots go stealing public funds, do they come to your homes asking for permission to steal in the name of your community? The answer is a big no and in 2019, Kenyans must reject such kind of talk. Since the March 9, 2018, handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga, we have experienced political stability. We almost tore the country apart by retreating to our tribal corners because of politics. In 2019, we must stay true to the Building Bridges Initiative and ensure that we resolve to stop tribalism, nepotism, and learn to be our brothers’ keeper. We must even tell off those politicians who are at the moment seeking to push us to those corners of tribal politics. Those talking of political debts and tribal alliances must stop and know the country is not interested in taking that route. Kenyans are interested in leadership that will focus on ensuring that the local mwananchi gets the services that they pay taxes for. We must ensure that the political stability we are experiencing is guarded in order to achieve the development agenda that we have as a country. Once we are ready for politics, and that should be closer to 2022, we will come together and evaluate leaders on their development agenda and not their tribal alliances. During the past year, President Uhuru Kenyatta and his government have been working on strategic plans related to the Big Four. In 2019, it is time to turn these plans into action and ensure that we achieve as much as we can in this New Year. All Kenyans must therefore make a resolution to support the government to succeed in its transformation agenda. Let’s resolve to focus less on politics and focus more on the Big Four, and what we can do individually for our nation. The Big Four agenda is about you and I with the immense benefits coming to us directly once they take off. Other than paying our taxes diligently, we must guard against those who may try to politicise this agenda, thus, distracting us. Let’s all agree to put our collective effort towards the fulfilment of these resolutions so that we may all have a nation that transforms the lives of its residents. All those that are in favour of the above resolutions say 'Aye'. The Aye’s have it! Political and communications consultant. @MachelWaikenda)