Was the government bureaucracy facing a major test yesterday at DustinD2 Hotel? Well. While Interior CS Fred Matiang’i was addressing the nation, bureaucrats continued nudging him not to talk in a deliberate effort to ensure the information available to the public was as scanty as possible. Particularly when asked about the actual number of terrorists killed, the CS, while attempting to respond by saying "we have brought down all the attackers", faced resistance from his PS Karanja Kibicho and Head of the Public Service Joseph Kinyua who intervened. Openly they tried to guide him through the answer forcing the CS to cut short the address. Perhaps the CS was too bright to avoid being misled as it happened during the Westgate attack in which then Interior CS Joseph ole Lenku was under fire for misleading Kenyans and lacking basic facts. ====== Was former Starehe MP aspirant Steve Mbogo just putting up a show, or did he imagine he was a James Bond, when he appeared at the DusitD2 Hotel during the terror attack on Tuesday? The politician, armed with an automatic rifle and a bulletproof vest, was spotted at the scene of the attack. The shocking twist was that at it, Mbogo took his brief moment of fame to take selfies of himself and was essentially a bystander as the police pout their lives on the line and stormed the building to rescue survivors. A senior security officer whispered to Corridors that the politician may not go scot-free for the show he put. Only time will tell. A top Jubilee stalwart is the talk of some western counties. The man, who ran a construction company is said to be taking over all road construction tenders but instead of delivering quality roads he said to perfecting in shoddiness. With roads done by his companies chipping off a month or so after their completion and after six months the man is paid again in fresh contract to redo the road. Some residents have decried the manner the man is doing his work and want him not only blacklisted from carrying on any road construction in the country but as well surcharged for earning through deceits. They want also counties that keep engaging his companies to be investigated to see if there is an unholy alliance. Just what happened to the Coast political brigade that had declared to be part of Tanga Tanga team? The MPs who were vocal in support of deputy president William Ruto have all over a sudden gone mute. One of them was overheard complaining that his cost benefit analysis of supporting the DP showed he had much to lose than gain. Now many are concentrating on how to appease their constituents since they have been marked as enemies with some electorates vowing to deal with them at the ballot in 2022. But even more, a top ODM organ is reportedly meeting today to seal the fate of some of their colleagues.The Party's disciplinary had recommended the expulsion of the party's renegades Click here for the latest political news