Say what you want, but breaking into the music industry seems easier now more than than ever. However, Kenyan artistes don't seem to comprehend why their music won't get significant airplay on mainstream media and their concerts won't really attract massive crowds. Critiquing is such a serious business, and while at it you understand why certain artists are more popular than others and why good music will always be considered good music.  If it were possible to set politics aside from the recent debate where artists attacked media personalities who "won't play Kenyan music during their shows", you would really get to see where the actual problem begins. Kenyan artists hardly stand out due to the lack of wide variety of styles and sound unique to each and every artist. They are trying to keep up with the sound of now and constantly come across as perfunctory.  They make projects that are quite forgettable, as globally the music industry is making extraordinary strides. We must admit that the unenlightenment exhibited by our artistes can be quite staggering. More often then not the work ethic is disappointing, even when it comes to the simplest things like having a cover art for a project. Accessibility shouldn't really be an issue since there are available channels for pushing music and the digital space is open to the masses.  But maybe the artistes are not really to blame for the quality. Often, the disappointment is that almost every second of the production feels weaker in force and is poorly envisaged. We, therefore, get projects full of nothing and concepts that fail to inspire. It's important to realise that even our biggest artists don't rank highly in Africa. In 2018, we got blessed with a few accepteable albums that just didn't stick.  As has been apparent for several years now, good music and artistes will somehow always rise to the top and to some extent exhibit staying power. The greater percentage of Kenyan artistes carry just enough to give the impression we might enjoy their product but that causes us to crave something evocative; and that's why the Tanzanian and Nigerian sounds are so popular.  Think of how Kenyans' lifestyle and fads are heavily influenced by music from other regions. Now that's quality in action, and most consumers will appreciate quality over quantity. It's time Kenyan artists treat their careers with the seriousness it deserves, display discernment in their work and release good, quality music if they want to be worth listening to and worth the consumer's money.