A county boss from a Western county is under fire over what his constituents claim amounts to favouritism of his sub-tribe. Other communities are left wondering what has become of the Governor who is serving a second term despite winning from across all sub-tribes in last years election. Recently, the county chief led a delegation from his county to a meeting with Deputy President William Ruto's Sugoi home. But the meeting triggered more storm. Why? The governor allegedly invited only members of his small sub-tribe to the meeting which was to discuss the area's development with the DP. Residents who spoke to Corridor are also pointing a finger at the Governor over his biased hiring in the county which favours only his people. ***** A wife of a governor from the North Eastern region is the talk of the town. The woman has decided to run amok at the county, firing, ordering and influencing all tenders. The lady is said to be more powerful than the husband who is described as aloof and unable to do anything or intervene to help bring sanity in the county despite having been the one who was given the mandate to ran the county. The lady is now sacking county officials over frivolous grounds including simply missing her call. Others have reportedly been kicked out for failing to 'recognise' her. But just how long will this happen and who will save them from the errant first lady given the husband inability to intervene?Surprisingly the woman has used the county money to pocket any whistle blower who gets wind of her errant way. ***** An elected leader with a pending election petition in the Supreme Court has stirred a storm in his backyard. Sources whispered to Corridors about the latest antics from the politician. First his election was nullified by the High Court. But the titanic legal battle somehow found its way to the apex court where a determination is pending.The embattled man has lately been heard bragging that he's already pocketed some two influential people in the judiciary. Is it true or just false self-reassurance? But according to the politician, those two people have vowed to ensure he gets a favorable ruling.The man has now gone on a fundraising spree to raise the alleged required Sh 40 million shillings to settle the deal. ***** Junior police officers at Huruma police station are unhappy lot. Reason? They are complaining for allegedly being coerced by their seniors to contribute to an end year party. The officers who talked to Corridors are questioning why their seniors could not give them ample time to mobilise funds for the end year event. According to our mole, the officers were only told to contribute a day to the party which happened on the eve of Christmas holiday. The officers were allegedly forced to cough between Sh3000 to Sh5000 depending on ones’s rank. Some claim the exorbitant bash has made them broke as they stare at Njanuary. Click here for
the latest political news  