Nyamira MPs have criticised local MCAs for fighting in Kisumu last week. The politicians condemned the incident at Pinecone Hotel, saying it was an embarrassment that brought shame to the county. The fight happened after Thaddeus Nyabaro (Ekerenyo) and Fred Nyachae (Magwagwa) disrupted a meeting at the hotel, saying it ought to have been held in Nyamira. The MPs accused the MCAs of misusing county funds by holding meetings in hotels outside the county. Legislators Joash Nyamoko (North Mugirango), Shadrack Mose (Kitutu Masaba), Jerusha Momanyi (Nyamira) and former Kitutu Masaba MP Timothy Bosire on Friday asked the MCAs to get their act together. “The MCAs are embarrassing us. They have failed to do their oversight roles and are misusing county funds in bogus meetings. They have eaten our money and are now vomiting on our shoes,” Nyamoko said. He spoke during the burial of Penina Kemuma. Kemuma is the mother of Tourism Trust Fund chairman Patrick Osero. Nyamoko , a former county assembly speaker, called for a meeting between the MCAs and speaker Moffat Teya to save the assembly from shame. He said the MCAs have failed to undertake their oversight role. “Devolution is like independence. If we mess it, we shall go several years back,” he said. Mose said it is confounding that a committee of the whole assembly had decided to hold a retreat in Kisumu for four days using county funds. “The MCAs should sit down and reflect on their performance,” Mose said. Bosire said the ward representatives had joined the executive in misusing county funds. ”Nyamira has received over Sh20 billion since 2013 but there is no major project which has been undertaken,” Bosire said. Teya however defended the MCAs, saying they were ready to account for use of funds. “We are ready to be asked questions. If there is any issue, we are ready to respond,” Teya said. Nyabaro and Nyachae disrupted the meeting saying it was a waste of public funds. “Why could the meeting not be held in Nyamira? We accept deliberate swindling of taxpayers’ money. It is illegal,” Nyachae said. He accused the assembly of poor leadership.