Parents in Nyeri have been urged to report any youth missing from home to the police. This will enable them to get assistance in case they have been radicalised, Woman Representative Rahab Mukami said. “If your child left and you do not have any information of his or her whereabouts, please report to the police for assistance,” she said She was speaking on Friday at YMCA hall in Nyeri town when she disbursed Sh4 million bursary cheques from National Government Affirmative Action Fund. “If they engage in terrorism activities, then they will end up being killed or jailed,” she warned. “Even if that child offers you financial assistance, you should know that the assistance will be shortlived.” The rep advised parents not to watch as their children are radicalised and end up killing many people in pursuit for money. The legislator was shocked that some of those who orchestrated deadly attack in Nairobi last Tuesday were from Majengo and Ruring’u in Nyeri. She pledged to speak to parents in the two areas. “We must ensure that the the children are found and brought back home.” Investigators last week pieced together details about Farouk, reported to have been born and bred in Majengo slum in Nyeri. and 26-year-old Eric Kinyanjui, who is said to come from Ngecha Village in Limuru. Police found documents in their pockets that disclosed their identities and details. The two were killed together with three others in DusitD2 hotel and forensic experts started to match their fingerprints as teams were dispatched to their villages. “They converted to Islam recently and we believe they were brainwashed by al-Shaabab,” a police officer involved in the investigations told the Star. The two are believed to have crossed over to Somalia and joined the terror group and received training. At least 22 people lost their lives, dozens were injured and Red Cross said those reported missing have been accounted for after heavily armed gunmen stormed the complex, forcing 700 others to make daring escapes. American, Israeli and British special forces were part of the security operation in which more than 700 civilians were evacuated. Anti-terrorism police on Tuesday night raided the house at Guango estate in Muchatha where Farouk lived with his family. Police said they found a hole in the floor of the three bedroom house where it is believed he was hiding the grenades and guns used in the attack. Police were late last week still guarding the house as crime scene. The officers combed through the home and interviewed neighbours. Police officers were also dispatched to Nyeri where the man, who is said to be a Muslim convert, was born and brought up.