A Rastafarian man has hit the headlines after he went to court on Monday to compel Olympic High School in Kibra constituency to admit his daughter chased away for wearing dreadlocks. The man argues that his daughter wears dreadlocks as part of her Rastafarian religion and not as a fashion statement and should therefore not be compelled to shave them off. The minor was sent away on January 10 despite having paid school fees. More on this read: Rastafarian dad sues school for refusing to admit dreadlocked daughter So what is Rastafarianism? Rastafarianism is an African-centred religion developed in Jamaica in the 1930s, following the coronation of Haile Selassie I as King of Ethiopia in 1930. Rastafarians consider Haile Selassie as their god and believe he will return to free members of the black community who are living in exile as a result of colonisation and slave trade. The theology was developed from Marcus Garvey, a political activist who wanted to improve the status of black people. How it spread It, however, spread globally following the success of the late Bob Marley and his music in the 1970s. Rastafarians believe that blacks are the chosen people of God, but through colonisation and slave trade their role has been suppressed to that of an inferior position as the slaves of whites. They believe the persecution resulted in their expulsion from Ethiopia to Jamaica, but they will eventually be returned to their homeland, Africa. Other names Rastafarians also go by the names rastas, sufferers, locks-men, dreads or dreadlocks. They regard themselves as the genuine Israelites. They have various beliefs some of which are mirrored in the Old Testament laws. They are; 1. No sharp implements to be used to damage man, for example, no trimming or shaving, no tattooing of the skin or cutting of the flesh. 2. As foretold in Leviticus 21:5: "They shall not make baldness upon their heads, neither shall they shave off the corner of their beard, nor make any cuttings in their flesh." They instead grow it and twist it into dreadlocks. 3. Vegetarianism: Rastafarians use as little animal flesh as possible. They avoid eating pig flesh, shellfish, scaleless fish or snails. 4. Worship and recognise no God other than Haile Selassie, and reject pagan beliefs, without disrespecting believers. 5. Love all mankind, but make one's first love the sons of Ham. 6. Condemn hate, jealousy, envy, deceit, craftiness, treachery, etc. 7. Oppose the pleasures of modern day society. 8. Create a world of one brotherhood. 9. Be charitable to any afflicted Rastafarian brother, and latterly to any other human, animal, plant, etc. 10. Adhere to the ancient laws of Ethiopia. 11. Do not accept aid, titles or possessions that the enemy might impart upon you, in fear. One's main purpose is to uphold Rastafari. Other beliefs Some of their other religious practices are inhalation of marijuana in order to increase spiritual awareness, chanting, drumming and meditating in order to reach a state of heightened spirituality and abstaining from alcohol. They are also opposed to abortion and contraception and believe reincarnation follows death and that life is eternal. The religion's colours are red, green and gold and sometimes black is added. Red signifies the blood of those killed for the cause of the black community, throughout Jamaican history, green represents Jamaica's vegetation and hope for the eradication of suppression, gold symbolises the wealth of Ethiopia and black signifies the colour of the Africans who initiated Rastafari. Their symbol is a lion which represents Haile Selassie I, who is referred to as the 'Conquering Lion of Judah'. Rastafarians' dreadlocks represent the lion's mane. With the number of Rastafarians increasing including in the West, some of the beliefs are not adhered to. However, for most Rastafarians, it remains a strongly held belief. Click here for the latest political news