The other day I bumped
into 5 of your waheshimiwa’s who had just landed in Delhi for ‘medical check-up’
sheeping into a Cancer facility.  I was
on my way to see a friend (let’s call her Wendy), who’s been here for almost 2
years now. Her mom is valiantly putting up a spirited
fight against Cancer and it takes a toll on my friend. She had just graduated
then this happened.  “Leon, don’t even
imagine of tweeting about us,” one of your popular female Mps, hissed. I almost
pulled a Moses Kuria in my comeback but was polite enough to make small talk
and go my way as they entered. DATA Last year
according to the Ministry of Health, Cancer patients made up 57.8 per cent,
16.8 per cent wanted renal disease treatment, 7.8 per cent sought treatment for
cardiovascular disease while skeletal disorders   were 3.4 per cent. The data
confirmed  that 116 patients  travelled 
to  India for treatment between
January and March with   the percentage
of men being  higher   ( 54 per cent ) , compared to women  ( 46 per cent) . The fact I
imagined   President Kenyatta’s 2015 visit
to India would turn things around breaks my heart whenever I visit the many
Kenyans who are suffering and are depressed in hospitals here. Mr.  Kenyatta,
together with PM Narendra Modi, promised to consolidate efforts, transfer
skills and strengthen Kenya’s capacity for specialized health services,
lowering the number of those seeking treatment abroad.  Do we have anything to show for it? MoU’s In 2016
,  Apollo Hospitals
which is  the largest  healthcare group  in  
India  signed  an MoU with Kenyatta National  Hospital 
in which   the group  was to  train
Kenyan doctors and other healthcare staff at Apollo. Specialists from the facility   would then visit KNH to conduct joint medical
camps, educational lectures and training programs. This   was to be done
in line with India’s support to Kenya in developing a self-sustainable
healthcare services model. Why then did we have to import doctors from Cuba after
signing such a ‘promising ‘   deal? Medical
Tourism Wendy tells me her days here feel like hell. “I feel so alone as mom is
always sleeping most of the time. At times I look for a spot and just sleep over few
drinks. She’s the only hope my sisters and I have Leon,” she
adds as tears roll down her big eyes. Most Kenyans who
bring   patients   here
have to look for accommodation elsewhere. Many rent
apartments around the hospital. In fact Wendy
tells me they pay 50,000 Rs (Ksh 72,220) per month. “Our landlady is Kenyan;
she owns many such   8 floor buildings   around if not acquiring others from Indians
who own them. She then hikes the rent … takes her cut and give Indians their
money back.” I am lost for words. This is the
reality my brothers and sisters, who have genuinely come to seek treatment for
their loved ones deal with. Aren’t we being unfair by focusing on 2020 succession
politics instead of thinking of setting up Cancer facilities and fixing our
health? Click here for the latest political news   