For a team not used to playing second fiddle to anyone, It must rile champions Gor Mahia to see they are far off the Kenyan Premier League top spot, which they have made their own for the last half a decade. Today, the two-time defending champions take on bottom of the table Mt. Kenya, looking close the gap on league leaders Mathare United who are eight points above them having played a game more. It’s a sizeable gap even this early in the season and Hassan Oktay’s men know that they should not let the chasm widen even further given the distraction of taking part in the continental competition and the form of the two leading teams in the league including Bandari. The big positive K’Ogalo will have going into the match is the possibility of unleashing a fresh Dennis Oliech against a Mount Kenya side with a whopping 13 goals in just six matches—the highest any team in the top flight has let in. The legendary Kenyan striker, who scored in the last outing in the victory over Posta Rangers is ineligible to feature in Sunday’s win over New Stars De Douala as he was not registered for the CAF Confederation Cup and will be itching to add to increase his goal tally in a club, where all his soccer playing brothers have served. Mt. Kenya formerly known as Nakumatt might have changed their name but to nobody’s surprise, the results have not changed much. The more things change, really, the more they remain the same. The basement club will be without goalkeeper Lucas Indeche who was sent off after a second bookable offence that resulted in a penalty in their defeat at home to Bandari last Saturday. Goals have been in short supply for Mount Kenya and they will be pinning their hopes of getting one past Gor on the shoulders of Samuel Ndung’u who has scored two times for them out of the paltry five goals they have managed. Gor on the other hand have Nicholas Kipkirui, Jacques Tuyisenge, Oliech and Lawrence Juma to call upon when push comes to shove. Victory for K’Og’alo will take them upmto fourth above Kariobangi Sharks and Tusker on goals difference but a shock win for Mt. Kenya will not be enough to take them off the foot of the table