Muslims are angry about a Supreme Court decision that Muslim students are not allowed to wear hijabs in non-Muslim schools. The court yesterday overturned a ruling allowing Muslim students to wear hijabs in school. Leaders said the decision is unfair and discriminatory. The apex court’s finding means Muslim might well have to go to school without the hijab. The ruling gives leeway to schools to choose their rules and dress codes. It’s likely to open the floodgates for lawsuits. The hijab is a scarf covers the head and chest and is considered by many to be a sign of modesty and devotion. The apex court said its decision does not shut out Muslim students or parents completely as it overturned the appeal on technicalities. “The court however recognises that the issue as contained in the impugned cross petition is an important national issue that will provide a jurisprudential moment for this court to pronounce itself upon in future,” the court held. The 4-1 decision was rendered by Justices David Maraga, Mohammed Ibrahim, Njoki Ndungu and Isaac Lenaola. Justice Jackton Ojwang dissented and supported the decision allowing wearing of hijabs. Speaking to the Star after the decision, Supreme Council of Muslim of Kenya deputy chair Hassan Ole Naado emphasised the importance of hijab for a Muslim woman. “The case was thrown out on technicalities but we are in discussions with other Muslim institutions with a view of reintroducing the case in a lower court,” he said. “For us, hijab is part of our Muslim faith. Without hijab one cannot practice the religious obligations,” he said. National Muslim Leaders Forum (chairman Abdullahi Abdi termed the ruling worrying, saying it has caused agitation among Muslims. “It is shocking that the supreme body of justice in this county can ignore the constitutional provisions that guarantee freedom of worship of every Kenyan, in favor of school rules,” Abdi said. “We never believed that one night the apex court we highly respect will take such decision that affects over 15 million people.” Abdi called for calm among Muslims, saying the leaders will get together to study the ruling and respond in a manner that will bring harmony. “What happened at the Supreme Court is a pure absurdity. That offends the very Constitution the Supreme Court should be protecting. We are in consultation and we might be back in court to file a constitutional case on the matter,” Yusuf Ibrahim, a lawyer and member of Jamia Mosque committee, said. “If left to stand, that ruling will open floodgates of abuse of our children and religious discrimination and rebukes our constitutional doctrines,” he added. Ustadhaa Amina Atatila said wearing a hijab is very important for a Muslim woman as it symbolises many things, among them her submission to her creator and her connection with the faith. She said it was unfair for the court to issue such a decision. The decision of the Supreme Court arose out of an appeal by the Methodist Church which is the sponsor of the school in question. In September 2016, the Court of Appeal allowed Muslim students from St Paul’s Kiwanjani School in Isiolo to wear hijab to school. The three-judge bench ruled students should be allowed to wear religious items of clothing in addition to their specified school uniforms. Students deserved to obey their religious requirements in accordance with their constitutional rights, which must be respected and protected, the judges ruled. Justices Philip Waki, Roselyne Nambuye and Patrick Kiage advised the Education CS to urgently formulate appropriate regulations “for the better protection of the constitutional right to freedom of religion and belief. They also cited students’ equality and freedom from discrimination under Article 27 of the Constitution.