Kenya Airports Authority on Wednesday launched a public participation drive on the proposal by Kenya Airways to be allowed to privately run JKIA. The drive is set to start on January 30 through to February 13. In a statement, the authority announced that Kisumu will be the first county to host such a gathering on January 30 at Kisumu Social Hall. It will then hear the view of the public in Eldoret on February 4 followed by Mombasa on February 7. Wajir and Lodwar will host the fora on February 11 while Nairobi to host the final one on February 13. The authority received a Privately Initiated Investment Proposal (PIIP) from Kenya Airways on October 3 last year to be granted a concession to operate and maintain the airport, which is the main global gateway into the country. Also Read: Kenya Airways seeks nod to operate, maintain JKIA The proposal states that Kenya Airways seeks to be allowed to create an entity, referred to as a special purpose vehicle (SPV) to exclusively maintain and operate the airport for 30 years. The SPV will be a subsidiary of KQ, protected from financial risks of the national carrier. This is the requirement as per the Public Private Partnership Act. KAA managing director Johnny Anderson said the move to engage members of the public is imperative to ensure that the feedback is incorporated into the decision regarding the management of the facility which is a public asset. "As our valued stakeholders, it is mandatory and important that we get the views and the feedback of all relevant stakeholders on the proposals made by KQ in the PIIP," he said. Since the beginning of last year, KQ has been pushing for the public-private partnership that will see it take over all the staff and operations of the JKIA. This includes ground handling, maintenance, catering, warehousing, and cargo. Other carriers, such as Emirates, Ethiopian Airways, and Qatar Airways are fully owned by their respective governments. This makes it easy for them to interact with their home airports. Click here for the latest political news