The Kisii government has clarified that it has completed the Kisii Teaching and Referral Hospital. The facility boasts of a new, magnificent 300-bed wing, complete with a modern incinerator and a morgue that can carry 100 bodies. The county says it’s ready and President Uhuru Kenyatta’s failure to launch it last week had nothing to do with it being incomplete. Governor James Ongwae seeks to build an enduring legacy in his second term from, among other projects, the hospital. It’s whispered that an MP from the region has been busy misleading residents that the President failed to visit last week because only the morgue was ready, not the hospital. But it’s said all is set for the launch of the outstanding hospital once Kenyatta’s diary is free. ***** Recruitment of chiefs in Northern Kenya has always been controversial, some say even tribal. But it’s emerging that some are even recruited with fake citizen registration and academic certificates. A little-known MP could be compromising security in the region. He recently recruited a refugee as a chief and is at pains to explain to residents how a man born in Somalia and educated in the Daadab refugee camp became a chief. ***** A politician whose poll petition is pending before court has baffled residents by his continued claim that he is not worried about its outcome. The leader, citing the backing of court officials, has been telling voters that his major worry would be how to source cash for campaigns in the event of a by-election. Our mole says the leader has even started organising a victory party ahead of the ruling. A number of his supporters are eagerly awaiting the outcome. The politician is also using some of his backers to push for a speedy decision. The question other parties in the case are asking is: What does the politician know about the outcome of the petition? ***** A former governor who has bankrolled ODM party campaigns for years is a furious man. The politician has protested the party’s decision to hand out direct tickets to Chris Karan and Irshad Sumra for the upcoming by-elections in Ugenya and Embakasi South constituencies. The man is said to have positioned his key allies to fly the party flag in the by-elections. He has since asked the allies to resign from the party and run for the seats as independent candidates to teach the party a lesson. Click here for
the latest political news