We at the institute for Development and
Leadership in Africa strongly condemn the heinous terror attack at 14 Riverside
on Tuesday. We also send our condolences to those who lost their lives in the
attack and wish all those who were injured quick recovery. It
is sad and disappointing that instead of promoting peace and unity among
ourselves as human beings, elements of destruction are still hell bent on
killing others, destroying property and create fear among citizens. The world
should stand firm and remain united and focused in fighting terrorism and other
ills in society that hinder peace, development and unity. Terrorism is a real threat that exists among
us, and that it should not be taken for granted. Citizens and governments
should always remain alert and prepared as attacks can happen at any time as
has happened here in Kenya, France and other countries in the recent past. Countries such as Kenya facing eminent
threats from terrorists right next in the neighbourhood should be more alert and
learn a lot from others’ experiences. Israel and America, for instance do not
take terrorism threat lightly. They have put measures in place to monitor any threats
and most of the time are very prepared to deal with such threats decisively
without any compromise whenever they happen. And as much as we are praising our security
forces for moving swiftly to end the Dusit attack many questions are still
being asked on how prepared or informed the government was. Kenya has been a
victim of serious terror attack in the past where many lives were lost, raising
the question whether we have learnt lessons from such experiences. Tuesday was the third El Adde anniversary. The security of citizens and expatriates should
not be left in the hands of unarmed guards, who themselves are vulnerable from
attacks by armed criminals. What happened at 14 Riverside, Westgate and Garissa
University are things that could have been avoided if proper security
mechanisms were put in place such as intelligence gathering. As a person very familiar with 14 Riverside
Drive area, I am left wondering how terrorists managed to drive freely without
any interruption or interception in the city and up to the compound. Police boss Joseph Boinnet told the nation
that the attack stated at I & M Bank, which inside the premises. Where were
the security officers? Were there no armed police on patrol in an area and hotel
that hosts dignitaries and expatriates working for various international
companies and organisations? Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i
and Inspector General of Police owe Kenyans and the international community an
explanation. Does it mean terrorists have a more
elaborate and serious intelligence network than government security agencies? We can’t continue to lose lives in the
hands of a few criminals every now and then. Foreigners investing in Kenya
should be vetted thoroughly to ensure that they are not fugitives pretending to
be investors. Issuing statements and talking tough when people have lost their
lives is meaningless. Like the late Lucy Kibaki once told the late Professor
George Saitoti, talking tough after people have lost their lives does not make
sense. This is exactly what Matiangi and Boinnet should be told. In fact, in a
more civilised and democratic society they should have resigned by now, if not
fired by the President. We seem to forget so easily and life moves
on as people continue losing their lives to terrorists.  There is no point shedding crocodile tears
when a disaster has happened and yet it probably have been avoided. It is sad
that whereas there was inadequate security at Riverside, let alone patrolling
the area, the same government officers are provided with unlimited number of
security officers to guard them, clear their ways and even to protect their wives,
children and sometimes girlfriends and boyfriends. This is shameful and should
not be tolerated at all. The prime responsibility of any government
is to protect its citizens, investors, not its officers and politicians.
Politicians and senior state officials have chase cars and extra security
around them, whereas the majority of Kenyans are living in danger every other
day. Had it not been for civilian firearm
holders the situation in Westgate then and now Riverside would have been a disaster.
The truth must be told. There is no need to pretend when our security is either
compromised or is being gambled with.  Kodhe is the Director General, Institute for Development and
Leadership in Africa (IDEA)