Former Kiambu Governor William Kabogo has petitioned stakeholders and state agencies in Kenya to effectively involve youths in the building of the economy to prevent radicalization. The focus on youth, Kabogo suggests is significant not only because of their large demographic size but also because of the socio-economic growth. The former governor said that an effective response would mean bringing them (youths) together with policymakers and creating a multilayered plan that takes on all of the forces that lead to radicalization Kabogo advises security institutions, civilian government agencies, and civil society organizations should discuss collaborative approaches to engaging youths. “There is need to step up the level of work that brings youths together irrespective of the ethnic group to ensure they are not converted as a tool for destruction but something that helps construction, “he said. Read; Taveta family mourns GSU officer killed in Dusit terror attack He said that especially to those in war zone (Northeastern Counties) alternative such as access to education, vocational training and job opportunities should be presented to them through devolution. Kabogo said that outreach movement through political participation, communities, and Cultural activities, young people become familiar with advocacy and build skills to think independently, to reflect critically on extreme narratives He was reacting to the act of terrorists at DusitD2 hotel that claimed the lives of 21 and left scores injured. While issuing a press statement President Uhuru said that he is committed in the process of building a new Kenya that is prosperous, secure, and inclusive, and in which every Kenyan has an opportunity to thrive. “We will allow no one to derail or frustrate our progress. No one in Kenya today, or at any time, should doubt our resolve to maintain security in our country, our determination is unswerving,” Uhuru said. Uhuru said that the terror attack was an attempt to instil fear in the Country noting that valiant effort by both the forces and emergency service providers in the face of terror was the highest height of patriotism. Also read; FBI joins probe into Dusit terror attack Click here for the latest political news