Drama erupted outside Giakanja High School when two rival youth groups clashed ahead of DP William Ruto's arrival in Nyeri for a church function. Trouble started after a group of youths believed to be supporters of Tangatanga grabbed T-shirts from those believed to be from the Kieleweke faction of Jubilee. The T-shirts had the inscriptions 'Uhuru's Bedroom' at the back and 'No 2022 Politics' in front. The T-shirts were later burnt by the youths and police moved in hastily to put off the fire. DP Ruto was expected to visit Giakanja AIPCA church for a fundraiser in aid of the church. There was tension at the school's gate as the two groups jeered at each other, forcing the police to order them away from the area. Police had a hard time ejecting the youths from the scene after they vowed not to allow Kieleweke supporters into the venue of the meeting. Police vowed to arrest anyone who would attempt to cause violence at the venue. Meanwhile, a section of leaders have said the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) recommendations are not a solution to chaos witnessed in the country at every election period. The leaders included Nyeri Governor Mutahi Kahiga, his deputy Caroline Karugu, Makueni Deputy Governor Adelina Mwau, MPs Vincent Musyoka (Mwala),  Charles Njagagua (Mbeere North), Moses Kuria (Gatundu South),  Aisha Jumwa (Malindi) and former MPs Regina Ndambuki (Kilome) and Gideon Ndambuki (Kaiti). Others were Rigathi Gachagua (Mathira) Rahab Mukami (a Woman Rep, Nyeri County), Anthony Kiai (Mukurweini), James Gichuhi (Tetu), Alice Wahome (Kandara) and Ngunjiri Wambugu (Nyeri Town). Speaking at St Francis of Assisi Catholic Church in Makueni county, ACK Siakago Cathedral Church in Embu County and Mukaro African Independent Pentecostal Church of Africa in Nyeri in the presence of Deputy President William Ruto, the leaders said implementation of BBI report was not a solution to perennial post-election chaos in the country. "Unless the leaders who are defeated during elections concede, the BBI recommendations will not help solve the problem,” Mwau said. She said the manner in which the BBI report was launched at the Bomas where some leaders traded accusations over the planning was a clear indication that the initiative would divide the country. Jumwa said some leaders were not sincere in their calls for a referendum, adding that they were pursuing selfish ends. "Now, some people have started talking about committee of experts yet BBI report does not talk about it. This is why it is about selfish interests,” she added. Kuria said Kenyans know those behind chaos after every election, noting that BBI was not a solution to the problems facing the country during electioneering period. "The problem of post-election chaos is a result of failure by some leaders to embrace democratic ideals and concede defeat," the Gatundu South MP said. Musyoka said they were ready to implement the BBI report whether through a referendum or Parliament. "We are ready to implement the BBI report because it has not created any special seat for anyone, " he said. Wahome called for a quick implementation of the BBI report “so that Kenyans can focus on the country's development agenda”. “Let them bring the BBI as soon as possible. We cannot politic about BBI for two years. It is time we focused on development,” she said. The Deputy President told Kenyans not to panic over the implementation of the BBI report, adding that a consensus would soon be arrived at on the mode of implementation. "We will meet and agree on its implementation,”  Ruto said. He asked leaders not to use BBI as an avenue to divide the country so as to achieve their selfish ends. The Deputy President said the construction of the Thwake Dam was progressing well. "The dam upon completion will benefit more than 300,000 residents of Makueni and Kitui counties in terms of clean drinking water and for irrigation purposes,” Ruto said.