A ferocious group of power brokers appear to have been deflated by move by President Uhuru Kenyatta and former Prime Minister Raila Odinga to extend the term of the Building Bridges Initiative task force. The shadowy figures were punctured by the surprise move as they had cobbled up fictitious events and personalities to steer the process in the much publicized Committee of Experts (CoE). Besides hijacking the process by introducing contentious elements, the brokers were salivating at an opportunity to rake in millions from the process. ** Residents of a county are in shock after a petition to have a Chief Executive Committee (CEC) member impeached by the county assembly was shoved aside after Members of the County Assembly pocketed bribes to sit on the petition. The besieged CEC with links to top politicians had been approved during vetting by the assembly despite having failed to produce his academic documents. Residents now wonder who will salvage them from money hungry assembly members who are expected to put the executive on check. ** County employees working for a communication department of a county in North Rift have adopted new methods to beat economic hardships to survive by now using their tools of trade for commercial purposes. They are now engaged in wedding video recording contracts during these festivities. It is now synonymous to find them recording weddings, funerals using their county equipment. Others act as master of ceremonies in the villages. The county is one whose funds has been withheld by the treasury for declining to pay pending bills and is yet to receive their November salaries. ** A first time County Member of Parliament has been fingered for being overbearing and tight fisted to an extent of denying staff salaries. So grim is the situation, that the staff who complain of their outstanding salaries being withheld are threatened with a sack. The Women Rep is said to have bullied and intimidated staff ostensibly through the kitty Manager to lord over and entrench her way by crook. Staff are aggrieved that the side kick is calling the shots and informs key decisions in the office including recruitment and the meager salaries paid. Observers opine that the crude austerity measures are meant to cushion her from tough times following disbandment of some women outfit. Ends…