Ford Kenya has dismissed the BBI report, saying ‘it’s not serious in addressing’ issues bedevilling the country. Speaking on Wednesday in Ndalu, Tongaren constituency, secretary General Eseli Simiyu said Kenyans expected the document to address the challenges that have made life unbearable, which it has not. “I have read that BBI report three times and I can tell you without fear of contradiction that its only a hollow report that can’t help this country,” the Tongaren MP said. Eseli spoke a day after the Deputy President on Tuesday toured Tongaren over TVETs projects. The MP skipped the event attended by Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka and other Jubilee leaders. “As a party, we presented our views to the BBI team and the report they came up with is weak. It can’t assist this ailing nation and we are being told that the same task force should be given more time to amend it! How?” he asked. The lawmaker said that Jubilee should stop wasting Kenyans’ time trying to rectify the document. Earlier this month, the term for the task force was extended. Eseli said it was evident that before the extension ends, it would be almost 2022. He said Jubilee is only buying time since by now, Kenyans would be having something concrete on the table over BBI. “Let them just agree that this BBI thing is fake and it’s a mere political tool that has confused Kenyans,” he said “If we are talking about a poor economy, what we have in that BBI does not help,” he said He said that life is not a rehearsal, and they should not take Kenyans for a ride. “I want to ask the Jubilee people not to take Kenyans for a ride because they were elected to rule this country, but they have started to quarrel among themselves, which is a bad example to the electorate,” he said. He said Deputy President William Ruto succeeding President Uhuru Kenyatta is “like jumping from the frying pan to the fire.” “Jubilee has wronged Kenyans by having plunged the country into huge debts from China and other countries,” he added.