 A private developer has lost an appeal in connection with the demolition of his multi-million-shilling hotel in Gigiri, Nairobi. The structure, which was intended to be a five-star hotel known as the Grand Manor, is next to the Moroccan embassy and opposite the US embassy and UN-Habitat headquarters. It was demolished last December after the owner, businessman Praful Kumar, failed to convince Employment and Labour Relations Court to stop notices demanding the structure to be pulled down. Appellate judges Erastus Githinji, Wanjiru Karanja and Martha Koome ruled that the suit by Whitehorse Investments lacked merit. They said the firm filed the case in the wrong forum. Lower court judge Benard Eboso had dismissed Whitehorse's petition because the businessman did not appeal against the decision by the Nairobi county government at the physical planning liaison committee before moving to the Environment and Land Court. He ruled that the petition before him was premature. The Court of Appeal judges said Eboso cannot be faulted for dismissing the case. “We find no merit in this appeal which we dismiss with costs to the Nairobi county government,” they said. The Court of Appeal had in January suspended further demolition of Grand Manor Hotel. City Hall had served the businessman with enforcement notices on December 14, 2017, requiring him to stop the construction of the hotel and remove its foundation. But Kumar said he had obtained all the required approvals for the construction of the hotel. He told the court that he had paid the inspection fee of Sh2.9 million and it was the duty of the county government to undertake the inspection. The proprietor maintained that the letter was malicious, unreasonable and accused  City Hall of shifting the burden to him. According to the businessman, the construction had not been condemned and the building did not pose any risk to nearby residents. The county government, through lawyer Harrison Kinyanjui, said Section 30 (1) of the Physical Planning Act and Nairobi building by-laws provide for a mechanism for an appeal to the liaison committee, which the proprietor had ignored. Kinyanjui said the owner had ignored the Act and was trying to use the court to propagate impunity.  