Twenty two-year-old Mohammed Hussein, known as Husni to his peers, is a rising environmentalist in Mombasa. The final year journalism student at Technical University of Mombasa often mobilizes family, friends, and neighbours to clean up the streets of the coastal city. His efforts have won him accolades including recognition as a health champion by a Muslim media company based in Mombasa. Over 70 people, mostly youth, on Tuesday answered Husin's call when they met and cleared an illegal dumpsite in Mombasa's Majengo residential area. The undeveloped area had turned into a dangerous zone where children risked contracting diseases including cholera or suffer wounds from  broken glass. “The crowded streets of Majengo forced children to play at this site but now it has turned into a potential health hazard thus the need to clean it,” Husni said. Summaiya Omar, a volunteer in the clean-up team, said she loves clean surroundings free from disease. She said diseases resulting from poor sanitation cost people heavily when seeking treatment and sometimes lead to loss of lives especially among children. She said a clean environment is an individual’s choice. As a youth, Omar said she willingly answered Husni's clean up call to support his vision for a healthy environment. Twaha Farouk, a youth from the Majengo, said it was important when youths come together for a worthy cause instead of staying idle or engaging in drug use or crime. Majengo village elder Mustafa Salim Johari welcomed the youth’s noble idea. He applauded Husni's community based organisation, Global Health Projects, saying such initiatives are good models for the youth to engage in meaningful activities as opposed to idling. Johari said the illegal dumpsite was used by drug peddlers drugs, posing a security threat and endangering the lives of youths and children targeted by the drug dealers. The administrator through help of the Global Health Projects demolished the structure and cleaned up the area. Elder Johari warned locals of dire consequences if they were found dumping in the area. He said it was illegal to dump waste in residential and un-designated areas. Salma Naji, a medical officer and the secretary general Kenya Association of Muslim Medical Professionals Coast region, who was part of the clean-up said illegal dumping in residential areas was a major cause of diseases common among children. “Contracting HIV and Hepatitis B are some of the common health implications that befall unsuspecting children who play at dumpsites when they come into contact with infected needles,” Naji said. Most drug users share needles and account for a high percentage of HIV cases in Mombasa. The doctor said gastroenteritis is the most common disease among children who play in dirty places and accounts for 80 per cent of children's diarrhea cases. She said the disease is curable when detected early before it gets to severe stages when it is expensive to treat and becomes life threatening. She advised cleaning up of residential areas as the best preventive measure against diseases.