A polio survivor who was beaten and humiliated by Baringo county askaris during Mashujaa Day celebrations has turned down Governor Stanley Kiptis’ gift of Sh2,000. He called it a “bribe” and demanded justice. The governor denied it was a bribe and said he occasionally offers the man a little financial assistance. John Ng’etich, 58, said during the public ceremony at Kerikwony Stadium in Eldama-Ravine town on October 20, he stood up and requested the MC give him a chance to address problems of PWDs. “What I got in return shocked me. The uniformed county askaris hurriedly mishandled me, knocked me down and beat me up on the muddy ground. They embarrassed me in public, especially in front of children” Ng’etich said. He said he just wanted to remind the county and the national governments that they have forgotten People With Disabilities for a long time. Present were Governor Kiptis, Tiaty MP William Kamket, county commissioner Henry Wafula and police commander Robinson Ndiwa. Ng’etich said on October 25, he received about Sh2,000 from Kiptis via M-Pesa serial number NJPOHN1RVG, without explanation. “But I presumed it was a bribe,” he said. Ngetich said he returned the money on the same day and threatened to sue for damages because of the beating and embarrassment. “I demand an apology and full compensation, failure to which, my plan to sue the county government is unstoppable,” Ngetich told Star on Tuesday. ‘No bribe’ Contacted for comment, Governor Kiptis denied bribing Ng’etich saying he just sent him a little cash. “I really have the heart to assist the vulnerable groups and so for his case, I always sent him some Sh1,000 or Sh2,000 cash through M-Pesa, so he can buy himself some basic needs, although we haven’t met in person,” Kiptis said. The county boss encouraged Ng’etich to sue the askaris who assaulted him. “I have no control over it because personally I did not take part in touching or causing him bodily harm and so where do I fall in this case?” he asked. He said the Mashujaa Day ceremony was a function of the national government and the lead organiser was the county commissioner, “so he was the right person to offer him an opportunity to address plights of PWDs” Kiptis said. He said his administration will not relent in seeking opportunities to put forward the demands of PWDs. “In our county hospitals I have said each disabled person should be treated and discharged free of charge,” the governor said. Ng’etich ekes out a living by selling newspapers and magazines. He said the askaris who assaulted him are still on duty. 21-day ultimatum On December 13, Nairobi-based law firm Kamanza and Partners Advocates wrote to the county, giving the administration through Governor Kiptis 21 days to apologise and pay the Ng’etich generously or face a lawsuit. “If by then no action from you will have been taken, we are considering court proceedings against you seeking remedies but not limited to special damages, substantial or general damages, interest and the cost of the suit,” the letter read in part. The law firm said their client is a serious person and a member of the Baringo Human Rights Consortium for People with Disabilities who lawfully attended the public event and realised vulnerable groups were not recognised. Earlier, a Baringo Human Rights Consortium based in Eldama-Ravine town issued a 30-day statutory notice to the county government. In a letter dated October 28, 2019, BHRC director Samson Tim issued a statutory notice to sue Governor Kiptis and his administration for “ordering” his askaris to assault the physically challenged man and deny him his right of speech. “Upon expiry of the period without any positive response, apology or action taken against the askaris or compensation of our client for the damages caused, we shall hand over the matter to our legal experts to institute legal proceedings,” Tim said. In September 2017, PWDs in Baringo filed a suit to challenge the lack of single nominee to both the county executive and the assembly. The group lost the case because it could not afford a lawyer. (Edited by V. Graham)