Joyce Syombua and her children Shanice Maua and Prince Michaela llegedly killed in Nanyuk by her estranged KDF husband  Peter Mugure were buried in Kitui  on Saturday. Mother and children were interred in an emotional funeral at Kyaithani village in Kitui Rural subcounty. Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu advised married couples to not to resort  to killing their partner  whenever their union hit the rocks. “If married couples become incompatible, neither of the parties should lay their hands on the other to commit murder. They should peacefully part ways amicably,” said Ngilu in a message delivered by her chief of staff Chrispus Ileli. Ngilu said even after separation the man has a moral and inherent responsibility to take care of children he sired with his estranged partner. She said there was not point for men to wait for courts to enforce the God-given responsibility to take care of their biological children. Mourners who spoke condemned the barbaric killing of Syombua and her children, pointing to fast fading moral values among Kenyans. Chief  Gregory Mutua urged the justice system to  act expeditiously to ensure justice is served. “Besides ensuring that the bereaved family gets justice and closure for the killings, the government should explore the possibility of compensating  the family if it is established that  the perpetuators are people serving  in government,” Mutua said. The bodies of Syombua and her daughter Maua, 10, and son Micheal, 5, were on November 16 found buried in a shallow grave at Thingithu estate in Nanyuki, three weeks after they were reported missing. They had arrived at Laikipia Barracks on October 25 and stayed with Major Mugure, Syombua's alleged estranged husband, who was attached to the Laikipia Airbase in Nanyuki. Postmortem analysis on the bodies showed that Syombua died as a result of multiple blows to the head while her children were strangled. Major Mugure,the prime suspect in the murder case, has since been arrested and remanded alongside Collins Pamba and Peter Maina Mwangi pending conclusion of police investigation.