The government is likely cancel some road contracts in Kiambu county over slow progress of the work. Deputy President William Ruto on Sunday said the 44km Ruiru-Githunguri-Uplands road and the 23km Moi Road, which starts in Githunguri town and ends in Kimende, are the worst-hit. The DP gave contractors one month to return to the site. “These contractors need to be punished. If they do not deliver, then we shall look for others who can work. There is so much work that needs to be done,” he said. He said the one-month work will be evaluated to establish if the contracts will be cancelled or not. “We have been receiving complaints from the public over the slow pace of work. At times, contractors have left the site without notifying anyone,” he said. The DP spoke at Kimende Secondary School, where he was the chief guest during the awarding ceremony of certificates to the beneficiaries of CDF funded courses. Lari MP Jonah Mburu said the Kagwe-Githunguri road has started to develop potholes. “The potholes are not as a result of the ongoing rain, but they started when it was dry. The  whole work is not pleasing,” he said. Resident Ngure Tharao urged the government to tarmac the Githunguri-Kagaa-Githirioni up to Rukuma road owing to its economic importance. He said that when the DP laid the foundation stone of Lari Technical Institute on May 17, 2015, he promised residents that the road would be tarmacked. “Nyayo tea zone is located in that area, and the technical institute as well as poultry and dairy farmers use the road to take their produce to the market,” Tharao said. “It has potholes during sunny days and gets muddy when it rains. For two weeks, farmers have been pouring fresh milk because the roads are in a bad state for lorries to drive to the area. That’s too bad,” Tharao said. MPs present during the event included Kimani Ichung’wa (Kikuyu), Rigathe Gachagua (Mathira), Jane Kihara (Naivasha), Gabriel Kago (Githunguri), Kwenya Thuku (South Kinangop) and Kijabe MCA Nyutu Wamwere.