Australian mining firm Base Titanium has said it was not involved in the relocation of Maumba villagers to the Bwiti area in Kwale county. The villagers were resettled during the first phase of the sand mineral harvesting contract which commenced in 2013. But they have complained that the Bwiti area is swampy hence unfit for settlement. They want Base Titanium to re-compensate them. Base Titanium community liaison manager Pius Kassim said the Ministry of Petroleum and Mining was fully involved in the resettling exercise He said the locals had sought assistance from the government after Base Titanium completed the compensation process. “A committee was formed and people approached higher authorities. That is when they were given the Bwiti land,” Kassim said. He said Base Titanium only paid the agreed compensation amounts to the locals as per the values that were given by the then land evaluation officers. Kasim said neither the investor nor Base Titanium suggested any land for the community. He said the committee that was involved in the relocation was dismantled after the exercise, leaving the locals unsure of whom to present their grievances to. Kasim spoke on Monday during a Town Hall meeting at Dr Babla School in Ukunda, Msambweni subcounty. The community liaison manager said attempts by the residents to find justice have proved futile because the majority of officers who had assisted in their transfer had either retired or were promoted. “The problem comes when these people can’t find any help and the closest ones to blame is Base Titanium,” he said. Kassim told the community that the company is willing to help if they agree to arrange for peace talks without faulting each other. Mining PS John Omenge said the government wanted to make sure its citizens’ rights are not deprived. He said the locals were each given five acres of lands for cultivation and additional half an acre for establishing the settlement for free without touching their compensated money. “Due to the government’s courtesy, it offered the affected victims five-and-half acres to re-establish quickly,” he said. Omenge said the community was overpaid and they had options to purchase lands in other areas if they felt uncomfortable. (edited by O. Owino)