An Anglican Church of Kenya cleric wants the Building Bridges report released to the public. Rt Rev Paul Korir told politicians to stop politicising it "as it was a constitutional document that the public needed to go through it to understand its contents". He said the country had been placed into a campaign mood by leaders trying to create two opposing camps contrary to the spirit arrived at during the handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga. The bishop urged leaders in all spheres of leadership to ensure that contrary to the 2005 constitutional referendum that split the country, BBI report should unite Kenyans. “The church has remained silent on the BBI debate because of the interpretation by politicians interested in creating a wedge among the innocent citizens, we must resist and advocate for unity,” Korir added. He was speaking on Sunday at the St Barnabas ACK Pro-Cathedral in Kapsabet, Nandi county, during the opening of the diocesan third ordinary session of the synod. “BBI should be real and not a decoy because Kenyans want peace and prosperity, not chaos and economic sabotage resulting from frequent disputed presidential polls,” the cleric said. The bishop said citizens would like to see leaders drawn from the ruling party and the opposition rallying the nation to support BBI. BBI is a constitutional document that will touch everyone, we should, therefore, see the country speaking in one united voice, he noted. He said support for the current crackdown against corruption must be unequivocal, but be carried out with decorum by Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission. “Arresting suspects on Friday and holding them over the weekend is in itself a violation of one's human rights. We want suspect arrested and immediately arraigned without drama,” Korir said. He was referring to the arrest of Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko in Voi. He said the drama was unnecessary since he could be asked to surrender in the nearest police station instead of mobilising police helicopter. “It’s a waste of the highly meagre resources the government has, many people need emergency assistance following mud and landslides occasioned by heavy rains, the helicopter should have gone to rescue people being swept away instead of being used to ferry Governor Sonko from Voi." Edited by R.Wamochie