Mt Kenya MPs have prepared a month long schedule that they will use in January 2020 to sensitize the region on Building Bridges Initiative. This follows a two-day retreat that was held in Embu last weekend bring together 57 MPs from Mt Kenya and its diaspora. The legislators on Saturday said any Constitutional amendment in relation to BBI report should be Parliament-led. They said many aspects contained in the BBI report can be  implemented in the Parliament because they touch on the law and not amendment to the Constitution. "Parliament is the sole body constitutionally mandated to pass laws. We commit ourselves to drive legal work in Parliament moving forward," part of the statement read by Embu senator Njeru Ndwiga read. Below is the schedule of the sensitisation caravan: On January 7, 2020, the MPs will visit Marimanti, Chuka, Chogoria, Nkubu and Kariene. On January 8, they will visit Timau, Kinoru Stadium Makutano, Gakoromone Mikinduri and Kianjai. January 9; Mutuate, Maua, Athiru and Maili Nne. January 10;  Timau, Ngare Ndare, Nanyuki, Rumuruti and Gwa Kungu in Nyahururu. January 11; Old Orok, Shamatta, Ol Kalou, Njabini and Miharati. January 12; Njoro, Molo, Kaptebwa and Afraha stadium. January 13; Bahati, Subukia, Gilgil, Naivasha and Mai Mahiu. January 14; Naru Moru, Karatina, Mukurweini, Othaya, Wamagana and Kamkunji grounds in Nyeri. January 15; Kiriti, Siakago, Runyejes, Embu town, Kianyaga and Kutus. January 16; Kerugoya, Kagio, Kangema, Kiriaini and Kangari. January 17;  Kandara, Kenol, Kirwara and Ihura stadium. January 18;  Limuru, Kikuyu, Karuri and Wangige. January 19; Kimende, Githunguri, Kiambu and Ruiru. January 20; Juja, Gatundu, Kamwagi and Thika. January 21; Kahawa West, Kasarani, Dandora and Gikomba. January 22; Kawangware, Waithaka and Kenyatta Market. The report, launched by President Uhuru Kenyatta, has made a proposal to change the country’ governance structure. In particular, the report recommends the introduction of a Prime Minister to be appointed by the President. Politicians are, however, divided on how the report should be implemented. Some of those allied to Uhuru and ODM leader Raila Odinga want the report implemented through a referendum.