Nyeri MCAs have dismissed claims by Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu that the speaker helped his deputy evade arrest after the Sunday fracas at Giakanja High School. Deputy President William Ruto was the chief guest during the event. Thirty MCAs in a press statement on Tuesday, said speaker John Kaguchia had requested his deputy to represent him at a function at the Coast. The travel arrangements for the deputy speaker, they said, had been finalised before the close of the day on Saturday – a day before the Giakanja fracas. "Kariuki did not travel to avoid arrest and now that he has learnt of a warrant of arrest from the police against him, he will be travelling back at the earliest opportunity and present himself to the police ready to collaborate with them in their investigations over this latest incident,” he added. Wambugu had accused the speaker of arranging for the deputy speaker to leave the country on Sunday to evade arrest. “How is it possible that he was able to create a trip on a Sunday and get the guy to travel out of the country? What are these guys telling us? Is this how county assemblies are running their budget?” he asked. The legislator said taxpayers’ money was used to help the deputy speaker escape and urged the EACC to investigate the matter. A warrant of arrest has been issued against Kariuki after a video of a man believed to be him whipping a youth went viral. But the MCAs, led by their leader of the majority James Kanyugo and Chinga MCA Kiruga Thuku said Kariuki acted in self-defense. Instead, they accused Wambugu of being behind the chaos, adding that the MP has the tendency of using the youths to disrupt political meetings. “One such meeting was when Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri came to commission a water project in Gatitu Muruguru ward,” Thuku said. They also cited the Inua Mama meeting at the DEB Primary School in Nyeri town, which also turned chaotic. They said the youths from AIPCA church reached out to Kariuki, who is their MCA, and requested him to join them in guarding against the disruption of the church event. “As widely expected, the attack gang struck as the church event progressed only that this time the church youths and their MCA were waiting for them,” he said. The attackers were outnumbered and repulsed, Kiruga said. “It was at this time that the deputy speaker was seen chasing one of the attackers who had fished out a knife,” he said. The MCAs want police to arrest and charge Wambugu for causing chaos at different events in Nyeri Town constituency. But Wambugu said the chaos were organised by Tangatanga with the aim of changing the story later and blaming it on him and his supporters. “As far as I am concerned, it looks like I was being set up to get beaten up by a gang of people,” he said. He said there has been a concerted effort to try to portray him and his supporters as being violent. 