DP William Ruto is not against BBI but he is fighting for his space in it because he knows it will give birth to the next government, ANC nominated MP Godfrey Osotsi has said. He said the DP was striving for his own cake and those who were following him blindly would land in a ditch as he celebrated his win. Osotsi's remarks come after Ruto had said the BBI was created to fix him for in the 2022 General Election. Osotsi said those hoping to form the next government after UhuRuto should play their cards smartly to ensure they are on the negotiating table. The lawmaker spoke at Emachuli Church of God in Emuhaya subcounty during a fundraiser for the church. “BBI is the mother and the father of the next government. Play with it, you are automatically out of the game and don't blame anyone if you are left out,” Osotsi said. He urged the Luhya leaders to come together and have one of them command the Western voter. He said the community had been out in the cold for long and it is time for it to be the next government. “Rift valley region, Mt Kenya region and Luo region have their commander and they move as a block. Come to Western region, everybody is the commander and he can on his own,” Osotsi said. He said his party leader Musalia Mudavadi stood a better chance of clinching the top seat if he worked with President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga. He said Mudavadi should unite all Luhyas regardless of their political parties to vote for him in 2022. “If Mudavadi continues to battle BBI, he will not be part of the next government,” the MP said. Previously, Mudavadi had said BBI should be used to revive Kenya's economy, fight corruption and unite all Kenyans. “BBI should not be here to discuss positions in the government when taxpayers are overburdened with the ailing economy,” Mudavadi said in a past event at Mungoma in Vihiga county. On the other hand, Hamisi MP Charles Gimose urged people to read the BBI report to make their own decision. “Read BBI and make a decision on what you read and understood. Be part of it and don't give politicians easy time to make their selfish interests over you, people,” Gimose said.