This week, the annual democracy and human rights festival was marked in Nairobi at the Kenya National Theatre. This is an annual event hosted by the Forum Syd to showcase efforts made in advancing democracy and human rights in the country by various groups across the country. It emerged from the conference that in recent times, art has been used to advance social justice in the country and the festival presented an opportunity to showcase how it was used to mobilise around democracy and human rights. Theatre, photography, puppetry, videos and other forms of artivism were on display at the festival. Despite the celebration of artistic strategies in advancing local campaigns, it is clear that democracy and human rights have suffered serious setbacks in the last one year. The country has been on a downward trend characterised with insecurity, underdevelopment, massive corruption and economic injustices, including huge public debt. Kenyans are decrying loss of livelihoods and worsening living conditions, contributing to flagrant violations of human rights. Such an environment diminishes political participation that leads to shrinking democratic space. Democracy is loosely defined as the rule of the people by the people for the people. For it to thrive, it requires a people who are free in their thoughts and actions to fully participate in public affairs without having to worry where their next meal will come from. Human rights are an integral pillar of a free society. Where the people enjoy their rights, their dignity is preserved and they can engage effectively to improve their lives. Article 19 (2) of the Constitution states that “the purpose of recognising and protecting human rights and fundamental freedoms is to preserve the dignity of individuals and communities…” Over the last one year, human rights have suffered immensely and as a result, democracy has suffered more. The sanctity of life has lost meaning as a result of violations, including homicide and femicide. Marauding criminal youth gangs in Mombasa, Nairobi, Kisumu and Nakuru have caused death and injuries to innocent civilians. Extrajudicial killings have become a norm, with our security agencies operating with impunity and total disregard for the rule of law. Economic hardships as a result of misguided government policies have dealt a death blow to all, especially the youth. Kenyans are desperately trying to eke out a living to feed their families, pay for healthcare and educate their children. They can hardly pay for a roof over their heads in worsening economic times as taxes and levies increase by the day. They are struggling to make ends meet and in the process are unable to engage in public discourses of democracy. On the other hand, politicians and others in leadership positions are taking advantage of the people’s helplessness and are engaging in massive corruption and looting of public coffers. Where basic rights are no longer guaranteed, democracy is diluted. This is the situation Kenya finds itself in today. Due to violations of civil and economic rights, there is diminished democratic participation by the people in key issues affecting their lives and country. Without a thriving democracy, Kenya is fast and surely slipping into disorder. Unless action is taken immediately to reverse the trend, the coming days will see worsening conditions with further deterioration of democracy and human rights in the country. The first step in salvaging the situation is to cause an awakening of minds through vigorous and sustained public awareness. There are already existing pockets of mobilisation in various parts of the country including Mombasa where Black Monday protests have stirred public interest in demystifying economic challenges facing the country. Such initiatives need to be supported and encouraged across the country so that the people can regain their rights and begin to actively engage in democratic discourses to liberate the country. Human rights and democracy are integral pillars of any society. Although Kenya has lost its place as a beacon of these ideals, it is all not lost. We have a good Constitution with a strong bill of rights that can be used to redeem the lost glory and reclaim our human rights and democracy. What is required is the will and belief of the people to liberate their nation. 