  Allies of Deputy President William Ruto on Monday hit back at Alfred Mutua after the Machakos governor accused the DP of threatening his life. Mutua on Monday recorded a statement at the Kilimani police station alleging Ruto, National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale and his Senate counterpart Kipchumba Murkomen had issued verbal threats to his life on two occasions at State House. In his statement, Mutua said Ruto promised to 'crush' him during their encounter at the banquet in honour of Barbados Prime Minister Mia Motley on December 11. “Wewe lazima sasa nikugonge. Nitakugonga (You. I must now crush you. I will crush you),” Governor Mutua recalled Ruto’s words. Mutua said Duale and Murkomen said they would teach him a lesson for attacking Ruto. The threat was issued on November 25 during the launch of the BBI report at State House. “They told me that I have a habit of attacking them. When I asked them how, they told me ‘we will teach you a lesson because you have been attacking Deputy President William Ruto,” Mutua said. But the claims attracted fiery criticism from Duale and Murkomen who accused the governor of seeking cheap political mileage. They said the governor's allegations were a desperate attempt to divert attention from his dwindling political fortunes. Duale, who Mutua accused of having warned him of dire consequences if he continued attacking Ruto, termed the claims “fictitious and wild. “Governor Alfred Mutua is at it again seeking attention with the most fictitious allegations that can only fit in his failed Cobra Squad TV show,” Duale said in a statement. The Garissa Township MP asked the Maendeleo Chap Chap Party leader to concentrate on developing Machakos and lift the living standards of his voters instead of making baseless claims. “You will not gain relevance by shouting the names of leaders who have achieved more than you can ever do. Focus on Machakos, Mutua,” Duale tweeted. Describing the allegations as befitting a movie script, Duale said, "The truth is, attention seekers are looking for validation. They want to know they are worthy... We play a different league. Wacha vindiyo, cinema na vipinderee (stop the theatrics).” The Machakos governor linked the threats on his life to his 2022 presidential ambitions as well as his outspokenness on corruption and other key issues affecting the country. But Murkomen fired back at the former government spokesman saying he was making the wild claims to divert attention from his failures as Machakos governor. “Mutua is writing another episode of his Cobra Squad series. Having failed spectacularly as a leader he turned himself into a Joseph Goebbels of his county government,” Murkomen said. Murkomen said the governor is “insignificant to attract any attention from serious political players." “He is of no consequence to anyone to deserve any attention let alone threats. Let's just watch the cinematics. Vipindiree,” Murkomen said. Mutua said DP Ruto allegedly grabbed and held on to his hand and told him “you fellow, you have been attacking me very much…I must now crush you…I will crush you.” The governor said he informed opposition chief Raila Odinga who was also present at the event because “I believe that William Ruto is serious and capable of carrying out his threat to my life and general welfare.” By the time of going press, Ruto was yet to respond as calls and texts to his spokesman, David Mugonyi, went unanswered.  edited by p. obuya