Kayole police officers have rejected claims that they clobbered a 22-year-old man to death in Nairobi. Daniel Wang’ombe died under unclear circumstances after he was arrested in Mihang’o, Kayole, Nairobi, last Friday. On Tuesday, some residents held protests and accused the police of killing him and dumping his body in a ditch at B Centre, Kayole. Kayole police boss Wilson Kosgei admitted that Wang’ombe was under police custody during his demise but added that he died while undergoing treatment at Mama Lucy Hospital. "Wang’ombe was arrested last Friday among others following a spate of crime in Mihang’o. While in custody at Kayole police station, the OCS noticed he was unwell, prompting the officers to rush him to Mama Lucy Hospital,” Kosgei told the Star on Wednesday. He said they discovered he was epileptic. Kosgei said his officers are committed to protecting lives and property and cannot beat suspects to death. “We were holding the deceased, among others, at the police cells, awaiting to arraign them on Monday, but, unfortunately, he succumbed in hospital." A postmortem will be conducted to reveal the cause of Wang'ombe's death. He has left behind a widow, Rosebera Kerubo, and a child. Residents have urged well-wishers to help them foot the burial expenses. On Wednesday, Mihang'o residents told the Star Wang’ombe was an ‘innocent’ tout in the area. "Wang’ombe was arrested last Friday at around 9am. When they took him, they kept hitting him on the head. He pleaded with the officers telling them he had head injuries but they declined to let him be,” Stephen Mwanguku said. The residents said they retrieved Wang’ombe’s body from a ditch and dismissed police reports that he died while undergoing treatment. “When we went to Mama Lucy on Saturday, we didn’t find him. Bodaboda operators later informed us they had seen a body dressed as per our description in a ditch,” Mwanguku said. He said the deceased experienced his epileptic problem twice while in a cell. Wang’ombe also suffered a nosebleed and fainted while in custody, Mwanguku added. "His fellow inmates tried banging the cell’s door in a bid to notify the officers that the deceased was unwell and should be taken to hospital but none responded." Another source who declined to be named said Wang’ombe requested two plates of food at lunchtime on Saturday after missing meals since his arrest and was granted. (Edited by F'Orieny)