Deputy President William Ruto has opened up on why he changed tack to support a referendum to implement the Building Bridges Initiative report. The DP has alleged a plot by BBI proponents to set him up to oppose the popular vote, thus making him look bad, a  spoiler— "a common target as the enemy of the people". Kakamega delegates who visited the DP at his Sugoi home intimated to the Star that they deliberated on whether a parliamentary route or referendum would be most useful in his quest for the presidency. “I am past that situation where they wanted to create 'yes' and 'no' camps so that I campaign twice. Let them bring on what they want,” the DP reportedly told the 1,400-member group on Wednesday. Ruto initially differed with handshake principals President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga when the two called for a people-driven BBI process. But being at odds with his boss President Kenyatta won't win him mileage, though the argument about a costly and divisive referendum — about personalities and not issues — is persuasive. At the Bomas of Kenya event, the DP said he preferred Kenya is saved another season of bruising competitive politics on the report, probably cast as a Ruto vs Uhuru and Rala contest. He vouched for a parliamentary initiative as a way to efficiently implement the proposals by the BBI team chaired by Garissa Senator Yusuf Haji. Days later, the DP and his allies shifted goalposts and instead drove campaigns for a multi-faceted approach, including a plebiscite. At the Sugoi meeting, Ruto is reported to have deplored alleged attempts by his boss and Raila to throw him under the bus ahead of 2022 and yet he backed their own bids earlier. Sources at the meeting said the DP did not hide his feelings that the two have turned against him when he needs their support. The DP reportedly expressed that he was "clean as cotton" during his campaigns for Raila and praised as a good person when he campaigned for Uhuru. “He [Ruto] told us how he was the good guy when campaigning for Uhuru but when asking them to return the favour, they have changed and are calling him names,” one source added. Mumias East MP Ben Washiali, stating that he can’t speak what's on the DP’s mind and hence cannot confirm the sentiments, said the issue could have emanated from the suspicions over the March 9, 2018, events at Harambee House — the Handshake. “We are not really saying that there are clear pointers but the truth is the DP should have been involved from the word go because he has a constituency,” the lawmaker said. The MP argued that Raila also should have brought with him the Nasa co-principals —, NC's Musalia Mudavadi, Ford Kenya's Moses Wetang’ula, and Wiper's Kalonzo Musyoka. Ruto was not involved, nor were the three other Nasa figures. Washiali, saying the handshake should have been more inclusive, raised questions on whether the nine-point BBI agenda would have been the same had other leaders given their opinions He said the DP’s suspicion arose from ODM's recent push for a powerful, executive Prime Minister, which was not in the final BBM report. Earlier a strong PM was reportedly one of its key suggestions. “It is from these efforts of changing from the presidential system that the suspicion comes. This is because the DP has been rooting for a presidential system as enshrined in the current Constitution,” Washiali said. But ODM rejected assertions that the DP was being set up to oppose the report, with party bigwigs saying Ruto took sides long ago. Dismissing the claims, chairman John Mbadi told the Star the DP was only keen on hiding his embarrassment after the content emerged completely different. “He declared his position way before the report was out. No one knows how he knew the content,” the Suba South MP said. At the Sugoi meeting, the DP further gave the strongest hint that he is keen on teaming up with Amani leader Musalia Mudavadi and Ford Kenya’s Moses Wetang’ula. “The DP said that he was ready and willing to support either Musalia or Wetang’ula as long as they convince him they had better chances to win,” another delegate told the Star. Ruto told the team that should the two leaders decline his call, then they had better prepare to face him at the ballot. The DP further pointed out that he was close to running alongside Raila and Uhuru in 2013 but made a tactical retreat after realising he would emerge third. “He said that in 2022, only ODM leader Raila Odinga or Uhuru could beat him and not Mudavadi or Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka,” another delegate said. In a brief from his office on the meeting, the DP said that he doesn’t just want to be president but to transform the country. He told the delegation that he was ready for the changes proposed in the BBI report as long as they are subjected to approval by Kenyans in a referendum — “not a clique of politicians”. The Sugoi group was drawn from Busia, Bungoma and Kakamega counties with other meetings planned for politicians from Vihiga and Trans Nzoia. They followed Kisii delegates who were there on Monday, a team from Central Kenya (Gema) was at the Sugoi residence on Thursday. But the DP’s fears of a 'no' and a 'yes' camp may become a reality should the 30-man team of technocrats propose a popular vote on key amendments. Already, battle lines are being drawn amid calls to amend the BBI report to incorporate a powerful Prime Minister. The BBI finally proposed a weak PM without executive powers. Even so, Ruto told Gema politicians that he doesn’t want the country to go back to the dark days of political violence and would accept the 2022 poll outcome. “I don’t want Kenyans to fight because of me. That is how serious I am. I don’t want this country to take the route where people lose lives because of any politician.” “I promise you that whether I win or not, we want peace in this nation,” Ruto said. “Winning an election is just a bonus. There is no one whom God has not made a leader. Going forward, I am clear Kenya will change. I am committed to it.” On Friday, Ruto said he and the state will continue to support the church and will ensure the partnership between the church and the state is solid. Speaking in Kiambu town during the enthronement ceremony of the new Mt Kenya South Anglican Bishop Charles Muturi, the DP said the state will continue working with the church and respect, appreciation and honour will be cultivated. “I assurance you on behalf of the President and all of us in the political class that we will honour, respect and work with the church as partners as we do the many things that God will give us the opportunity to discharge,” Ruto said. Separately, women leaders proposed that in future, the President and the Deputy President should be of the opposite sex. The women, who met in Nairobi to deliberate on the BBI report, further want one speaker — either of the Senate or the National Assembly — to be a woman. “If the position of Prime Minister and deputy Prime Minister are created, there should also be considerations for women. Why should we have a parade of men?” Narc Kenya leader Martha Karua said. Cabinet Secretaries Margaret Kobia (Public Service and Gender), Raphael Tuju (Special member), Nairobi Woman Representative Esther Passaris, Nairobi County Assembly Speaker Beatrice Elachi, and former MP Pheobe Asiyo, among others, attended. Kobia said Kenyan women want gender equality where men and women have equal opportunities economically, socially, politically and culturally. “We have made gains in economic participation, education, health and political empowerment but if we continue with this pace and trend, it will take us 100 years to attain a gender-equal world,” she said. The BBI proposes to compel candidates vying for governor to pick deputies of the opposite sex. It further says parties should be compelled through the Political Parties Act to meet the two-thirds gender rule when nominating candidates. During the last election, only a handful of governors appointed deputies from the opposite sex — Nyeri, Kericho, Narok, and Makueni. Karua said parties also have key roles to play in ensuring that more women are in elected positions. “Let us take this conversation to the grassroots because women at that level also have brilliant ideas,” she added. Tuju said, "Please bring in men to champion your issues since you may be too emotional. BBI presents yet another opportunity for women to fight for 50-50 representation.” This was even as an action group demanded full disclosure on the extension of the term of the 14-member task force that came up with the BBI report. The Center for Multiparty Democracy Kenya urged Uhuru and Raila to tell Kenyans what informed the decision. “It behooves the appointing authority to share with the nation the details of the extension,” said CMD chairperson Abshiro Halakea nominated senator. 