Clerics have condemned the extension of the BBI team's tenure as by President Uhuru Kenyatta as the move continues to elicit mixed reactions. Leading the pack is Supreme Council of Kenyan Muslims (Supkem) and African Inland Church of Kenya. According to the leaders of the faith groups, President Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga should have instead named a new technical team to steer the second phase of the process. Supkem acting chairman Hassan Ole Naado questioned the independence of the Building Bridges Initiative team saying most of them are state and public officers and thus plunge the whole exercise in direct conflict of interest. “Composition of the BBI task force compromised. Their presence indicates a real or perceived lack of independence and may lend credence to the fear that proposed amendments are for the benefit of the ruling class and ensuring power and positions instead of the benefit of the Kenyan people," Naado said. The team cannot implement the report with the impartiality required, he said. AIC head Archbishop Jackson Ole Sapit wants Uhuru to recall the team and set up an all-inclusive committee of experts to handle the second phase. “I ask the President to reconsider his decision, the team has done a commendable job and they should not be required to shepherd the process of trying to identify where loose ends exist and rollout the implementation process,” Sapit said. The Anglican church head wants the new CoE to include representatives of those left out in the first task force to enforce inclusivity and unity. The initial task force was labelled a two-man agreement between Uhuru and Raila with the likes of ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi – a NASA principal – feeling left out of the process that was meant to unite Kenyans from all walks of life. “There may be areas where Kenyans feel some aspects were not adequately diagnosed. I urge all people to discuss with a view to building and not destroying our nation,” Sapit added. The leaders were speaking separately in Nairobi on Sunday. Uhuru and Raila last week gave the Garissa Senator Yusuf Haji-led team a new mandate to among others, expand and guide public participation and structure recommendations into implementable action plans. The BBI team comprises Haji, Adams Oloo, Agnes Kavindu, Amos Wako, Florence Omosa, Saeed Mwaguni, James Matundwa, John Seii, Lawi Imathiu, Maison Leshoomo, Morompi ole Ronkei, Peter Njenga, Rose Museo and Zacchaeus Okoth. Edited by R.Wamochie