St Francis Community Hospital on Monday denied deliberately worsening a patient's condition to extend her stay and inflate the bill. The complaint had been made by John Gitonga, whose wife Esther Wanyoike has been admitted to hospital since May after she fell and injured her spine. The Star published a story about his predicament on November 3 and the hospital said the story was one-sided, although officials were not available at that time to comment. Gitonga, who is a knife sharpener in Ruiru, had threatened to leave the wife in the hospital because he could not afford the Sh1.8 million bill. "Even if they sold my bicycle I still would not be able to afford it," Gitonga told the Star last month. Well-wishers, including relatives, had taken Esther to several hospitals but they refused to admit her. They finally gave up helping after the hospital bill kept rising. However, speaking to the Star on the phone, general surgeon and hospital Superintendent Dr Benjamin Njihia said on Monday that the hospital had tried to help the family with different payment options and even waived the spinal surgical fee. The hospital said on Monday that Esther does not want a story to be published because she refused to sign a consent form. The husband said, however, this story should be published and his wife should not sign anything the hospital gave her without his presence and consent. Njihia, who called the Star, said when Esther was admitted, she had acute paralysis and when doctors performed scans, they found her spine had collapsed. They carried out a decompression procedure. "However, when the procedure happens more than eight hours after the injury, it is unlikely to recover neural function," he said. This explains why Esther was unable to walk after surgery, he said. Doctors then took tissue specimens for a biopsy examination. They revealed that a cancerous process had eaten into Esther's body and the primary site was the thyroid gland, Njihia said. "We performed the biopsy twice to be sure and we found it had spread to the back. We performed a procedure for this also," he said. Njihia said Esther also developed bed sores because the blood flow to the skin was interrupted. "When you sit on a chair, you find yourself adjusting every six to eight minutes because your blood needs to flow to the skin and this was not happening for Esther," the Superintendent said. He said the hospital advised the family to have the bedsores treated on an outpatient basis but they declined. They wanted her to leave the hospital fully cured, he said. The hospital credit controller who asked to be identified only as Nelly said she believed Gitonga had been kept in the dark about his wife's condition. She telephoned the Star. Both the doctor and financial controller informed the Star they never directly dealt with Gitonga but people they assumed were Esther's relatives. Gitonga was taking care of his wife every day after she fell and injured her spine almost six months ago. The hospital has discontinued physiotherapy and no longer provides diapers and a special mattress for Esther until she is able to pay her bill. She is still unable to walk. The hospital is charging for the bed and meals. Gitonga is appealing to well-wishers to help him pay the bill. He has acquired a Safaricom pay bill number, 573231 . A representative from the Ruiru MP's office told the Star the Kingara Foundation will facilitate physiotherapy for Esther after she is discharged. (Edited by V. Graham)