Education CS George Magoha yesterday hailed KCSE candidates who scored less than 200 marks in their KCPE exam but managed to score C+ and above. He urged Kenyans to demystify myths that candidates who perform poorly in their KCPE exams also fail in secondary school. He spoke during the release of KCSE results at KNEC headquarters, Nairobi. Many students who scored 200 marks and below in KCPE exam attained a mean score of C+ and above. "Students have committed suicide because of poor KCPE results. Their parents ridicule them. Who said you can't get what you want after failing in exams?" Magoha said. "We need to remove the myth that if you get marks below 300, you are condemned." Some candidates who scored as little as 177 marks in KCPE exam did extremely well. Of these, he gave examples of Milka Wanjiru who after scoring 179 marks in was admitted to Gathara Secondary, a subcounty school where she scored B-. "Munyoki Mwikali scored 199 marks in KCPE, went to Mama Malia Secondary School. She also scored  B-," the CS said. Sharon Chepkoech scored 183  marks in KCPE,  was admitted to Zaire Secondary School and got C+ in her final high school assessment. Other candidates who performed well after scoring less than 200 marks included Mbugua Macharia with 190 marks in KCPE. He scored C+ from Kiambaa Mixed High School. Joseph Mwangi (193 marks) scored C+ from Mukuri Secondary and Mureti Timothy (193) also had C+. Muchai Gachie scored  277 marks in KCPE and eventually scooped A-. "It is the President's wish that we celebrate this student. There is a myth that unless you go to a top school, you can't produce good marks," Magoha said. He said subcounty schools improved significantly. President Uhuru Kenyatta commended them for posting a remarkable improvement and attributed the improvement is as a result of the enhanced government investment in the education sector. He backed efforts to ensure 100 per cent transition from primary to secondary schools. Uhuru spoke at State House, Nairobi, after being briefed on the results by Education CS George Magoha ahead of their release to the public. In his briefing to the head os state, Magoha said 127 special needs learners excelled and are expected to join universities.