Nairobi MCAs are set for a closed door meeting to discuss the ‘state of affairs at City Hall’, sparking speculation the ward reps could be planning to impeach embattled Governor Mike Sonko. All the 85 elected ward representatives will hold an informal meeting commonly known as the Kamkunji at the County assembly premises on Saturday. According to a communique channeled out to the members by Minority Chief Whip Peter Imwatok in their WhatsApp group, the meeting will kick off at 8.30am. “Hon members as agreed with other members present at the Windsor all elected members we meet tomorrow at the County Assembly at 8:30 am. Kindly you are all requested to attend," reads the communication, seen by the Star. On Wednesday, reports emerged that a section of ODM MCAs had started collecting signatures to impeach Sonko, moments after the court barred him from accessing his office. Minority leader David Mberia, however, told the Star that he reined in his members, explaining that they were waiting for direction from ODM leader Raila Odinga. However, the ODM MCAs said they will not hesitate to bring a motion if their party leader directs so. "As it stands, Raila has not yet communicated to us on the way forward but whatever Raila directs we will act accordingly without questioning. If he directs to bring an impeachment motion we shall do so, we are not afraid of anything,” Mberia said. The county assembly has been rocked by chaos and chaos since speaker Beatrice Elachi returned following her impeachment in September last year. A section of Jubilee MCAs allied to ousted majority leader Abdi Guyo have vowed to support the ouster motion if its brought on the floor. The flamboyant city boss was charged with corruption on Monday. Chief anti-corruption magistrate Douglas Ogoti released him on a Sh15 million cash bail and stopped him from setting foot at his City Hall office. City Hall is currently on an autopilot after Sonko, who has run city hall for two years without a deputy, stonewalled all pleas to nominate one in line with Supreme Court advisory rendered in March last year. Polycarp Igathe resigned as Sonko’s deputy in January 2018.