The man whose car plunged in the Indian Ocean on Saturday morning did not speak to anyone as he left home at 4:00 am. The body of John Mutinda was retrieved four hours later after it was reported that his car had plunged into the ocean at the Mainland. According to his wife Ruth Mutinda, the husband worked as a clearing agent in Mombasa and on Saturday morning she was informed by her house help that his husband had left with the keys to the town. She claimed that the effort to find out where her husband was going to were fruitless since he drove the car very fast after opening the gate. Kenya Ferry managing director Bakari Gowa has said that the multi agency team composed of Kenya navy, Kenya Police, retrieved the body in about an hour. The report indicates that the vehicle plunged in the Indian Ocean at about 4:20am and retrieved at 8:20 am while the body was retrieved noon. Gowa confirmed that the car was 6 meters deep, and the body remained in the car and divers were forced to break its window in order to retrieve. According to the press release by Kenya Ferry Services, Mutinda drove his car registration number KBX 475B Toyota Alion maroon in color to the mainland ramp past the police check and failed to pay toll charges of Sh.120. “The ferry staff approached the vehicle, it drove past the pavement on the opposite side of the road overlapping other vehicles which were parked on the waiting bay and as the ramp controller stopped the vehicle the motorist defied the order, sped off and plunged in to the Indian Ocean," read the statement. The wife to the deceased arrived at the scene few minutes past 8:00 am and the body retrieved was she was recording statement at the Kenya ferry police station on the Island side. Gowa has also said that only one ferry was on operation at the time of the incident and it was picking passengers at the Island side. The family identified the body of their kin and conducted a small prayer service at the Jocham funeral home. “We slept well yesterday and only to wake up with bad news that Mutinda is no more. Kenya ferry has assured us their support during these difficult moments and lets ignore rumors circulating on social media” said Kieti. He dismissed allegations that the deceased was drunk at the time of incident. He left behind three sons; the oldest had completed form four. The incident comes barely three months after Mariam Kighenda, 35, and her four-year-old daughter Amanda Mutheu died after their car slid from the rear of MV Harambee just before it docked on the Island side.