Some 27 former Kenya Ports Authority employees dismissed over a workers’ strike in 2015 have appealed to President Uhuru and ODM leader Raila Odinga to intervene in their case. They were 28 officials of the giant Dock Workers Union when they were dismissed on July 2, 2015 after a one-day strike, but one of them has since died. Led by former assistant chairman Abubakar Mohamed, the 27 said they were irregularly dismissed by the management then led by managing director Gichiri Ndua. “We were dismissed because we were fighting for the employees who had elected us to fight for their welfare,” said Mohamed at a press conference in Mombasa on Monday. “No warning letters were issued to us, nor were we given an opportunity to defend ourselves as stipulated by the Labour Relations law,” he said. Former vice chair Michael Kyalo said the strike notice was duly issued and called by the TUC-Kenya, which is a registered labour centre to which DWU was affiliated. “The strike was caused by a dispute over increased NHIF rates from Sh320 to Sh1,700 per month, an act which workers felt was arbitrary and unilateral,” said Kyalo. The former DWU officials said they were vindicated months later when Ndua and his management team were sacked over tender issues. “They had wanted to sell the second container terminal to a private individual and we refused. We made so much noise about it,” said Kyalo. He said the management then got their revenge when they took advantage of the strike to dismiss them. “Teachers went on strike for 90 days, doctors went for 60 days. How come we only went on strike for one day and we were dismissed? That shows it was targeted,” said Mohamed. Kyalo said a powerful tycoon after tenders at the port was behind their sacking. “The tycoon, whom we cannot name for legal reasons, wanted us out of the way so he could get his much sought after tender at the CT2. He was behind the push for us to get sacked,” Kyalo said. The workers now want Uhuru and Raila to intervene and have them reinstated as KPA employees. “We have suffered a lot for the last five years. Our children do not go to school and we are struggling to keep our families together,” said Mohamed. They said the KPA management then refused to implement a court directive that they be given their terminal dues.