Did President Uhuru Kenyatta snub a vocal Tangatanga MP when he attended the burial of multi-party hero Charles Rubia in Kandara on Monday? There are claims the President refused to shake hands with the MP and instead greeted other leaders lined up to receive him. Feeling embarrassed, the MP took a back seat at the tent and appeared to be deep in thought. Has the President started to make good his threat to teach his Mt Kenya critics a bitter lesson? A little bird tells us it's only a matter of time before he starts to openly ignore politicians critical of his administration, especially those from his backyard. *** Some MCAs from a county in Nyanza have promised to teach an executive a bitter lesson when the House resumes in February. The ward reps are angry after the official reneged on their agreement to grease their palms after they saved him from impeachment. The executive, according to those in the know, had promised the ward legislators ‘bumper gifts’ for Christmas. However, he has been unreachable by phone since the beginning of the festive season. The MCAs are now planning to revive the impeachment motion that collapsed over technicalities in late November. *** Woman reps affiliated to the Tangatanga wing of Jubilee are angry. It is said an outspoken MP has of late developed the habit of demeaning their representation in Parliament. The woman reps who had met for lunch at a city hotel were overheard yesterday bitterly complaining about a post by the abrasive politician in a WhatsApp group in her county. They said she claimed the Woman Rep seat was "just for adding numbers in Parliament and adds no value at all". They have given her an ultimatum for an apology lest they go slow on supporting her. *** The CEO of a lucrative parastatal is on the spot over claims he has been spending nights at an institute affiliated to the agency without making prior bookings. The senior official is said to be driving many kilometres every weekend to the institute that has accommodation and catering facilities just to sleep without paying. He then harasses staff to eject clients out of 'his' room even when he has not booked it. In what has lifted the lid on the CEO's manoeuvres, auditors have raised a query about his expenditures at the institution. The official has been presenting double receipts to claim accommodation costs at the facility and at a hotel. The auditors are scrutinising the official accused of claiming accommodation reimbursement against laid-down government procedures. It is only a matter of time before the details are revealed.