 The DCI has been directed to authenticate documents in an alleged transfer of Sh2 billion property belonging to a Germany national in 60 days. Mombasa High Curt judge P.J Otieno directed the DCIO to collect the documents used in the transfer of the property which were allegedly signed by the foreign investor. Otieno said the investigators have 60 days to verify their authenticity and present its findings before the court. "This court will not entertain any forged documents that it is why they should be certified by the DCI before they are admitted," Otieno said. Wildfred Gurnther has sued his children for allegedly transferring his properties using fraudulent means. The German national says his children transferred shares of Hanos K Limited to themselves while he was serving jail term in Italy. He said his children further threw him out of his apartment and were demanding rent as they take him as a tenant in his own property. Some of the properties include Papillion Garden Bar located along the Mombasa-Malindi highway. Some of the documents to be authenticated includes the transfer of shares and a letter of resignation from being a director allegedly signed by Gurnther and a document indicating that Gurnther's business partner Hanos Bruno had died. “This is a matter that requires a forensic expert to ascertain the authenticity of these documents that allege the fraudulent transfer of the shares and also those that confirm Bruno died. I do not want forged documents presented in my court” Otieno said. But Gurnther informed the court that he has to leave the country since he has to go back to his home country lest he misses out on social funds which he now depends on since he does not have any income. The investor said his children transferred his property leaving him homeless and penniless. He said Ronny Herbert and Jeanine Notalie fraudulently transferred his shares to themselves using a document he allegedly signed. The DCI had already taken up the matter and had launched investigations on how the properties were transferred. Coast DCI boss Wellstone Njiru said they were investigating a senior counsel, an accountant and two foreigners over the alleged irregular transfer. “We are also working closely with Interpol to ensure other foreign suspects are charged,” Njiru said.  edited by p.obuya