Kenyan players registered mixed results on Day One of the 2019 African Youth Chess Championships in Windhoek, Namibia on Monday. Candidate Master Aguda Lwanga and Viraj Bhaveshu posted wins in the Under-14 Open category whereas Imani Amor Oriyo and Simon Njoroge lost their opening matches. CM Aguda edged Masimba Manhado of Zimbabwe, Bhaveshu beat Mendulo Lungile as Oriyo Musa Munyere of Botswana and went down to Jane Galeshewe in their encounter. In the girls' Under-14, Sarah Momanyi beat home player Justine Van Der Meer as Christine Kemuma lost to Antonio Renelsa of Angola. Rose Wakiuru was granted a bye and will start her campaign in the second round. Dorcas Wanjala, the only Kenyan in the  girls' U-18 faltered in her opening round, falling to Algerian Nassr Rania. Vincent Kipkoech saved Kenya the blushes in boys' U-18 with a win against Soutth African Jan Du Pleissis as Ian Mutegi, Samuel Kinyua and Abdulhakim Naim suffered early blows. The championships, which will be played in nine rounds, have attracted 11 countries including Angola, Botswana, South Africa, Madagascar, Algeria, Egypt, Malawi, Zimbabwe, Tanzania, Kenya and hosts Namibia. In the meantime, the newly crowned national champion Mehul Gohil will be looking to maintain his good form in the next two months when he will be gunning for a slot in Team Kenya for the 2020 Olympiad. Nairobi Chess Club’s Gohil won the national Championships unbeaten with eight points in nine rounds to take home the ultimate prize- Mazda Demio on Sunday. Also known as the ‘Gorilla’ in Kenyan chess circles, Gohil leads a field of top 24 men from the championships who will face-off in January for slots in the 2020 Olympiad. Gohil won seven of his games against Ian Nduguo Anchor Chess Club, Bank of Africa’s Joseph Maigua and Eastlands Chess Club’s Daniel Gisore. He also brought down four bankers- Brian Adorwa, Matthew Kanegeni (Equity), Joseph Methu and Jackson Ndegwa of Kenya Commercial Bank. Rounds two and nine were particularly rough as the champion could only pull draws  against former teammates at KCB Martin Njoroge and Ben Nguku. Chess Kenya will whittle down the numbers to 10 next month. They will then play in round-robin format in February to determine the top five who will represent the country at the 2020 Olympiad. 