Farmers in Busia will be buying improved animals semen at Sh1,000 instead of initial Sh4,000 as the county seeks to increase milk production. Agriculture executive Dr Moses Osia said on Monday the indigenous animal breeds raised by most farmers in the county do not have the capacity to produce enough milk for local consumption and export. Cross-breeding, he said, is the sure way through which the border county will produce the over 600,000 litres the Agriculture department targets to produce. “As a county, we are introducing animal breeding programmes to upgrade all animals in the county through the provision of improved affordable semen,” he said. “We have been getting complaints that the Sh4,000 price tag for improved semen was high for farmers, and we had to introduce a subsidy to make the semen affordable. They can now buy at Sh1,000.” The cost is for fertilising one animal. He said the previously higher charges on artificial insemination had for long hurt efforts by farmers to adopt production of high-yielding animal breeds, which he attributed to insufficient milk production that presently stands at 540,000 litres per year. Osia spoke one month after Governor Sospeter Ojaamong told dairy farmers to make use of available land to boost milk production. “The issue of poverty in Busia should not exist if residents capitalise on available land to keep improved dairy animals instead of the current trend where milk is imported from neighbouring Uganda and parts of Rift Valley,” Ojaamong said when he visited dairy farmers in Butula subcounty. He was on the tour with a delegation from USAID-Washington. Ojaamong said his government is constructing two modern dairy parks in Teso South and Butula subcounties with the objective of increasing milk production to bridge the county’s domestic shortfall. A January partnership Busia signed with the International Livestock Research Institute (ILRI) is also expected to help the county improve livestock production by introducing better feeding, health and livestock management methods. “Counties including Kisumu, Migori and Busia have the potential to develop a viable commercial dairy sector. They need to improve breeding strategies to provide better dairy animals through artificial insemination and other support schemes,” ILRI principal scientist Okeyo Mwai said during the partnership’s signing. At the event, it emerged that residents of Busia spend approximately Sh75 million every month to import milk from Uganda. “We should capitalise on subsidised artificial insemination services and available markets to increase our production,” Osia said. Busia’s daily milk production currently stands at 30,000 litres against an everyday demand of 50,000 litres official data shows.