Wajir leaders have asked the government to intensify the fight against al Shabaab to end the senseless killing of Kenyans by the militants. Al Shabaab terrorists on Friday attacked a Mandera-bound bus in Wajir and killed 11 non-locals between Kotulo and Wargadud. Speaking during a prayer rally on Saturday, leaders including Governor Mohamed Abdi and his predecessor Ahmed Abdullahi said it won't be business as usual in the fight against terrorism. The about seven militants stopped the bus and separated the passengers into two groups of locals and non-locals and ordered them to lie down. They shot the non-locals at close range but six survived the ordeal. Eight of those killed were police officers reporting back to their work stations in Elram in Mandera county. Also killed was a teacher and a medical doctor. Abdi said it was unfortunate that the attacked happened at a time when the county was hosting a dignified leader who had come to pray for peace and unity amongst residents. Degodia supreme leader Wabar Abdille Wabar visited the county on Friday and was present at the prayer rally at Sunrise Academy. MPs Aden Keynan (Eldas), Rashid Kasim (Wajir East), Ahmed Bashane (Tarbaj), Ahmed Kolosh (Wajir West) and Fatuma Ibrahim (EALA) were present. “I want to appeal to our security apparatus to remain proactive and alert at all times. We cannot be losing lives in the hands of the militants in this day and age. As leaders, we cannot be condemning every day and sending messages of condolences. We want to say enough is enough,” Abdi said. The governor went on, "We need to reflect as a country and be honest with each other. We are going back to the drawing board as leaders and as a community so we come up with real and actionable solutions to this menace.” Keynan said it was time for the government to change tack in the fight against terror. "We cannot allow such malpractices to continue on our soil. Let u all cooperate to stem out this menace that has really been a thorn in our flesh,” Keynan said. “It is unfortunate that terrorists are roaming freely within our borders causing anxiety, fear and deaths. It is time for the public to not only volunteer intelligence to the security agencies but also conduct vigilante arrests on individuals hell-bent on tainting our image and dividing people along ethnic and religious lines,” the MP said. Kassim said "we shall fight these militants who are out to destabilise our county with equal force." On Saturday, county commissioner Loyford Kibaara said the driver and the conductor of the bus were both arrested and were still being interrogated. Northeastern regional commissioner Mohamed Birik directed all the three county commissioners of Garissa, Wajir and Mandera and their intelligence committees to ensure suitable measures were put in place to enhance security. He said buses plying the Wajir-Mandera route should be given security escort.  edited by p. obuya