Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana has taken a swipe at the Ukambani politics and leadership led by Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka and former Senator Johnstone Muthama terming them as 'rudderless'. Kivutha called for careful scrutiny of today's politics saying there is a leadership vacuum crying out to be filled. "Ukambani politics has become a Tower of Babel..Kalonzo tells us to go this way, Muthama that way. Each expects we shall follow without questioning," Kivutha said. In a statement on Saturday, the governor said the current debate by the two leaders lacks a discussion on vision and the ingredients of a genuine, people-centred development agenda. He insisted for a real transformation of Kenya, the Kamba Nation included. In an apparent reference to Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua, Kivutha said that despite several individuals from the region declaring interest in high political office, all of Kenya must support a candidate "It is wrong to pre-campaign as if only Kambas will vote for the Kamba presidential candidates. That way we shall unwittingly isolate our region from the rest of Kenya. And then court massive failure," he said. He cited the recent message by Archbishop Timothy Ndambuki at Yatta who called for the transformational agenda to lift Kenyans including Kambas from historical poverty. "The clergy did not endorse anybody at Yatta. They went to deliver a prophetic message. We need to move away from politics of personality cults to politics of people's transformation," Kivutha said. The Makueni County boss, however, said Kalonzo had the democratic right to seek a merger of Wiper with President Uhuru Kenyatta's 2022 party as well as Muthama's personal decision to work with DP Ruto. Kivutha said the country's political arena has been busted wide open following ODM leader Raila Odinga's pronouncement on the 'death' of NASA combined with Jubilee's own internal problems. "Let the Kenyan people including Kambas for a change be at the forefront of shaping the New Politics. Let them help develop or crowdsource the ideas they want a political party to champion," Kivutha said. He urged on Kenyans to study the BBI and ultimately make a decision on it. "Let us also be part of establishing new political democratic formations which serve us and not merely individuals. And above all let us think Kenya first and our regions second. Real national unity will be the unity of purpose of all Kenyan peoples," Kivutha added. The governor called for the full implementation of the 2010 Constitution and Devolution and ways on how to effectively tackle corruption and a united nation. "We have to discuss how to achieve robust economies built on our comparative advantages and therefore equitable development so as to guarantee inclusivity in keeping particularly with the SDG and Africa Agenda 2063 platforms and our national and county blueprints," he said. The governor also called for a discussion on genuine youth empowerment in education, skills development, jobs creation, entrepreneurship, talents development, financial inclusion and leisure. " We need to discuss the promotion of rule of law, people-driven public participation, ethical leadership, entrenchment and respect of public institutions, accountability, separation of powers, and checks and balances," he added. Kivutha also called for a conversation on how to reverse environmental degradation and climate change, affirmative action for women, persons with disabilities, senior citizens, and other marginalised groups and minorities. And also how to achieve a mutually beneficial relationship with the rest of Africa and the world at large. His sentiments come after the Ukambani leadership have been involved in a heated debate this week on the community's political direction heading into 2022. Muthama had announced that he was working on plans to see Ruto and Kalonzo form a 2022 alliance. Kalonzo immediately reacted to the statement saying that he would not want to antagonise Uhuru by engaging with Ruto. On Wednesday, Muthama shot back accusing Kalonzo of using the region for selfish gains with his engagement with Uhuru. He then declared that he was the new Ukambani political kingpin. Before the dust could settle, Wiper leaders from the region led by Parliamentarians accused Muthama of undermining their 2022 candidate for the presidency - Kalonzo. On Friday,  Mutua dismissed Kalonzo and Muthama saying they do not speak for the region.