Sofapaka registered their sixth win of the 2019-2020 Kenya Premier League after beating debutants Kisumu All Stars 2-1 yesterday at the muddy Kenyatta Stadium, Machakos. Following the result, the 2009 league champions condemned Kisumu to their eighth defeat of the season and moved to within four points  of league leaders Gor Mahia. John Baraza, who remains unbeaten in the five matches he has overseen since his elevation to the rank of stand-in coach reckons that his charges would have scored more had the playing surface been in better condition. “It was a tough match and the pitch made it tougher for us. We would have scored more were it not for the bad state of the surface as this affected the flow of the match for both teams. The league is still wide open and we will continue to take each match at a time to achieve our target for the season,” he noted. All Stars captain Gerishom Arabe equally lamented over the poor state of the pitch and attributed their loss to the muddy conditions. “We played well but the pitch worked against us. We normally train on an artificial surface which enables us to string passes together but our plan was disoriented from the onset due to the muddy condition,” he said. Elly Asieche superbly converted a penalty kick barealy eight minutes into the game to give Sofapaka the lead after a rather a slow start by the two sides. The playmaker had been put through by Peter Lwassa but was brought down by Kisumu’s Shadrack Omondi who barred him from pulling the trigger, leaving Davies Omweno to point to the spot Kisumu restored parity in the 38th minute through veteran forward Wesley Kemboi who also struck from the spot after Faina Jacobs had scythed him down. Kemboi, who had a relatively quiet half had his spot kick saved by Richard Aimo but would slot home the rebound to draw his side level. The result remained unchallenged till the half time whistle with Sofapaka breaking for the breather guilty of flapping clear cut chances. The home side made their first change after the break—bringing in Mohammed Kasiryie for Sammy Imbuye while Kisumu reacted by withdrawing the injured Omondi for Arabe. Sofapaka regained the lead in the 69th minute through experienced striker Kepha Aswani whose bicycle kick sailed to the top corner from Asieche’s corner. Asieche would have completed his brace in the 80th minute from the spot after Arthur Ochieng had handled in the box but was denied by the woodwork. What seemed to be an harmless long throw by George Marlo landed on Ochieng’s arm in the full glare of Omweno who gave the third penalty in the match.