Lineout and execution will be key for Impala as they prepare for the Ngong Road derby showdown against Quins on Saturday. The Sarries will be seeking to bounce back after throwing a 17-point lead at half time to lose 30-20 to Nakuru RFC over the weekend. Head coach Mitch Ocholla said his charges did not execute well and lacked the intensity in the second half, handing the hosts an easy path to wreck havoc. "Our second-half performance was poor. We ceded control in several facets of play to Nakuru and credit to them they took advantage to turn around the game for a win," said Ocholla. Ocholla has, however, said it is not time to hit the panic button with just a third of the season gone and has asked his charges to trust the process. "It's still early days and we are still in a good position on the log and if we get our performances right then the results will come good,” noted Ocholla Ocholla termed the result against his former employers as a wakeup call. “The defeat has happened early in the season which allows us time to rectify the mistakes we made as the season goes on,” noted Ocholla. Impala looked on the way to a big win after tries from Steve Otieno, Quinto Ongo and Elkeans Musonye with Mark Kwemoi adding a penalty and conversion for a 20-3 lead at the break. Nakuru rallied back into the game in the second half with tries Gramwell Bunyasi, Edwins Makori, Felix Omondi and a penalty try as Collins Onyango drilled two penalties and a conversion to complete an unlikely comeback. Ocholla said Quins is a formidable opponent despite their recent results which has them ranked ninth on the log. "It will be a tough game where history will count for nothing and the boys are relishing the challenge of playing their rivals,” noted Ocholla. The two sides clashed twice last season with Quins winning both encounters 37-24 in the group phase and 29-24 in the Kenya Cup quarterfinals. Meanwhile, Ocholla expects to have Sammy Oliech, Samuel Motari, Bravin Mukoro and Michael Gitau back in training in the next couple of weeks as they recover from injuries. 