 National Cohesion Integration Commission member Fatuma Tabwara collapsed and died on Sunday. Tabwara was attending the wedding of her niece Salma Kadingo in Kwale county when she collapsed. Kadingo is an assistant county commissioner. A relative said the NCIC commissioner was seated and chatting with other women when she suddenly collapsed. She was rushed to Diani Beach Hospital where she was pronounced dead on arrival at about at 10 am. "It is confirmed that she is not with us. Police have gone to the hospital so that we can start necessary action," Kwale county commissioner Karuku Ngumo told the Star on the phone. Tabwara is survived by two boys, two girls and her husband. Sources at the hospital said she suffered a heart attack. She will be buried tomorrow (Monday) at her home in Kombani. Tabwara was part of the new NCIC commissioners led by chairman Samuel Kobia who were sworn in by Chief Justice David Maraga last month. Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya in a statement eulogised Tabwara as "an advocate of the welfare of Kwale people" who "worked tirelessly to give her life for the service of the people." Mvurya said she performed the duties with zeal, dedication and self-sacrifice. "I take this early opportunity to join the entire community of  Kwale county in mourning the passing on of a great leader who was so instrumental in our county agenda and vision of transforming the lives of Kwale people," Mvurya said in a statement. Tabwara becomes the second NCIC vice-chair to die in office. Mary Onyango died of breast cancer at Aga Khan University Hospital in Kisumu in 2012. Tabwara who has in the past served as a commissioner in the Kwale Public Service Board and later as a political adviser in the governor's office was a holder of a  Masters degree in Education Planning & Administration from Mount Kenya University and a Bachelors Degree in Education from Kenyatta University, according to the NCIC website. She unsuccessfully vied for Kwale Woman Representative seat on the Party for Development and Reforms ticket in 2017.  edited by p.o