 Lawyer Miguna Miguna will next month make a third attempt to return to Kenya following his acrimonious deportation to Canada in 2018. Miguna on Monday announced he will be landing at Nairobi’s Jomo Kenyatta International Airport on January 11, almost two years after his dramatic arrest and deportation. The controversial lawyer took to Twitter to announce his return and tagged Chief Justice David Maraga, Kenya National Commission on Human Rights and the Law Society of Kenya in his widely-shared tweet. “My flight to my motherland will land at the JKIA on January 11, 2020,” Miguna tweeted. “Court orders must be obeyed. Ensure compliance with Justice Mwita’s orders of December 14, 2018.” In a clear anticipation of another round of ugly confrontations with state authorities, Miguna gave out phone numbers of lawyers and offices to be contacted in case anything happens to him. Among those listed include his personal lawyer John Khaminwa. “Contacts to call if anything happens to me during my journey to Kenya in January. Aluta Continua Law Society of Ontario Toll Free 1-800-668-7380 Dr. John Khaminwa Khaminwa & Khaminwa Advocates +254-722-384-2881 Courtney Kazembe +1-416-633-7679.” The former aide to ODM leader Raila Odinga found himself on the authority’s bad books over his role in the mock swearing-in of the opposition chief on January 30, 2018. President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila have since developed a cordial working relationship after the disputed polls and are currently pushing a national unity drive through the Building Bridges Initiative. Miguna has become a fierce critic of BBI. Miguna was first deported in February 2018 after a dramatic arrest at his Runda home and detention in a number of police stations. The government accused him of being in Kenya illegally claiming he had renounced his Kenyan citizenship when acquiring a Canadian passport. The following month, he unsuccessfully attempted to return to Kenya through JKIA but was denied entry as he spent several hours at the airport’s detention cell. This is not the first time the combative lawyer has announced returning to Kenya. In April, he announced he would be coming back but it never came to be. 