Turkana Governor Josphat Nanok has said BBI will fail if he does not build a good relationship with the county governments. “President Uhuru should find time to meet us, the governors from the 47 counties, to iron out our differences and then chart the way forward for this nation,” Nanok said. The former Council of Governor chairman spoke while presiding over the famous Kimalel goat auction in Baringo South subcounty on Saturday. Nanok, who represented Deputy President William Ruto, said the last summit with the President was 15 months ago while he was still the chairman of the council. “...yet the law stipulates a meeting twice a year,” he said. “Failure to do so then means BBI is bound to fail, even if some amendments are made because after all, every referendum must pass through the county assemblies,” he said. The governor dismissed Interior CS Fred Matiangi for trying to humiliate the governors by asking them to pay pending bills promptly. “It is not in order to shame the governors by asking to settle Sh32 billion bills while the national government is being owed by international investors’ cash amounting to Sh288 billion, which one is more?” he posed. Among the leaders present during the goat auction were his Baringo counterpart Stanley Kiptis, Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen, his Nandi counterpart Samson Cherargei, Aaron Cheruiyot(Kericho), Baringo North MP William Cheptumo, his Baringo South counterpart Charles Kamuren and Joshua Kandie(Baringo Central). Water CS Simon Chelugui and Baringo speaker David Kiplagat were also present. A total of 1,431 goats were sold each at Sh10,000. This is was a drop by 1,159 from last year’s 2,590 goats sold by DP Ruto in 15 minutes. Through Nanok, President Uhuru and DP Ruto bought 400 goats each at Sh8 million. Governor Nanok spent Sh500,000 to by 50 goats. Murkomen and Baringo Senator Gideon Moi(absent) also 50 goats each, while Senators Cheragei and Cheruiyot bought 100 and 20 respectively. Governor Kiptis and Chelugio bought 100 goats each, while his Uasin Gishu counterpart Jackson Mandago(absent) bought 30. Baringo Assembly through speaker Kiplagat bought 100 goats. Water PS Fred Segor bought 30 goats, while MPs William Cheptumo, Kamuren and Joshua Kandie bought 10 each. Nyeri Governor Miutahi Kahiga got 30, Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi 30, Soy MP Caleb Kositany 20, Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichung'wa  20, Senator Isaac Mwaura 50, KCB Bank 75 and Rift Valley Water 60. This year farmers are set to earn their entire amount in cash without much deductions after the National Hospital Insurance Fund pulled out owing to heated complains last year. Apart from goat sale, Kimalel was also awash with cultural dances that brought together over 30 groups from Tugen, Pokot and Ilchamus communities from Baringo. Last year, Sh 24.9 million was raised. Baringo county gets at least Sh2.9 billion from the sale of more than 120,000 animals every year.