Good morning, Nairobi county is in a crisis after Governor Mike Sonko stonewalled pleas to nominate a deputy hours before he was barred from accessing office. City Hall is essentially on auto-pilot as the governor cannot access his office on orders of the court. Here are the other stories making headlines in the Star this morning. The leadership Nairobians voted into power in 2017 has crumbled like a house of cards. Governor Mike Sonko has been barred from office over corruption charges, while his deputy is long gone and never replaced. Moreover, the county executive committee is in limbo with most officers sacked or suspended, and majority of the remaining ones serving in acting capacity. The government is going for more counties flouting President Uhuru Kenyatta’s pending bills directive, a move likely to plunge counties into more financial crises. Treasury has indicated it will withhold disbursement of cash to another 20 counties bringing the number of devolved units unable to get cash over unpaid pending bills to 35. Kenya lags in implementing policies supportive of Micro, Small and Medium Sized Enterprises (MSME), a recent survey by the Kenya Private Sector Alliance (Kepsa) shows. The MSME Policy Index released on Tuesday focusing on eight business enablers gave an average index score of three, just below four,  which is regarded as favourable. Kenyans have been asked to brace themselves for a wet Jamhuri Day on Thursday and a rainy weekend characterised by a heavy downpour. In its seven-day forecast released on Wednesday, the Meteorological department said the ongoing rains will continue until Monday next week.  Kenyans will have to wait longer for the appointment of a new Auditor General after a panel constituted to consider 17 shortlisted applicants failed to find a suitable candidate. Public Service Commission chairman Stephen Kirogo on Wednesday said the recruitment process will start afresh. He denied claims that President Uhuru Kenyatta rejected three names the panel had forwarded to him for consideration.