Some 400 disadvantaged youths have graduated after undergoing free training in short technical courses in Murang’a county. The training, which was sponsored by Murang’a woman representative Sabina Chege, is meant to help youths who have been unable to further their education gain life skills. The training is conducted during the April, August and December holidays at Michuki Technical Training Institute when regular students are on break. Chege said too many youths lag behind after failing to secure chances in tertiary institutions, making them susceptible to crime. “This training is aimed at getting these students from their homes and giving them hope that they can start afresh,” Chege said. The youths trained in baking, dressmaking, plumbing and electrical wiring. Some of the beneficiaries drawn from across the county are young parents, while others are drop outs who have been having a hard time securing gainful employment. But Chege said the short courses will enable the graduates to start earning and set them in the right direction. They will also open a window for the graduates to further their education as they continue to work, she said. “Some of these youths had lost hope yet they have so much potential and only require a little support,” she said. She, however, urged youths to not stay at home after completing their Form 4 e regardless of the grades they achieve in their KCSE exams. The MP said the government provides up to Sh32,000 for students who enroll in technical institutes, which are available in almost every constituency. The students also have a chance to access Higher Education Loans Board funds amounting to Sh70,000, which can help them clear their fees and get pocket money. The MP said she worked as a house help after leaving Form 4 and that it is then that she saw a show running on the national broadcaster and auditioned for a role. “By the time I went to the university, I was earning some money from acting and that is how my career in the media took off. If I was not confident, I’d have remained a house help,” Chege said. She challenged youths not to sit back frustrated when life gets hard but to try and take themselves to the next level. “I hope these students will change their attitude and start seeing things differently despite what has happened in their lives before,” she said. She added that she will sponsor those who performed best for diploma courses. Registration for the April training will start immediately and those interested have been urged to reach out to her office. The MP is also training 60 nurses at the Outspan Hospital in Nyeri and sponsoring 350 secondary school students.