Good morning, ODM leaders have issued fresh demands to radically amend the Building Bridges Initiative report barely a week after President Uhuru Kenyatta extended the tenure of the task force. On Tuesday, MPs confronted their ODM party boss Raila Odinga with the new demands, including having a powerful Prime Minister with two deputies. Here are the other stories making headlines in the Star this morning. Thirdway Alliance party leader Ekuro Aukot says ODM leader Raila Odinga had no legal mandate to negotiate the BBI with President Uhuru Kenyatta. He said Raila is not recognised under the law and should not have an agreement with the President on national issues. Through lawyer Elias Mutuma, Aukot said the formation of the Building Bridges Initiative team amounted to misuse of public funds. Among members of the Teso community in Busia county exists a ceremony that involves exhuming the dead. Elders from the community say the ritual, which has been practised for hundreds if not thousands of years, played a primary role in the conservation of forests that are now facing extinction in Teso.  President Uhuru Kenyatta has officially commissioned the standard gauge railway freight operations to the Naivasha Inland Container Depot (ICD). The ICD is expected to provide over 500 more jobs to residents and industries over the existing 10,000 jobs with key installations on cargo clearance yet to be done.  Tough-talking Education Cabinet Secretary Geoge Magoha this week announced that no primary or secondary school will receive money unless all students have been registered in the new digital platform — the National Education Management Information System — Nemis. His statement was prompted by reports that recalcitrant Eduction bosses in the counties would collect data manually from schools for onward transmission to Jogoo House, thence to Treasury. Sticky fingered administrators hate Nemis. The Communications Authority has instructed Telkom Kenya to resolve the payment dispute between it and Eaton Towers Kenya Limited inorder not to inconvenience customers. The tower company is demanding an undisclosed amount  from Telkom for the period between September and November. 