Gusii leaders have launched a bid to galvanise support for Interior CS Fred Matiangi's salvo at the country's top job. Governors James Ongwae (Kisii), John Nyagarama (Nyamira) and Senator Sam Ongeri said the time is ripe for a person from the community to lead the country. They also pledged to support the Building Initiative report and resolved to rally the people behind it. In a joint communique, they endorsed Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i for the presidency. The leaders, mostly speaking in parables, backed Matiang’i to be President Uhuru Kenyatta' successor. “We will always take a common ground as a community in approaching issues of national importance. Imperatively, we shall be taking an all-inclusive and consultative approach when vouching for our political and development agenda,”  Ongwae said. The leaders said that while any leader can sell his political ambitions, they are not going to allow anybody to heap vitriol on the CS as he is among the topmost leaders from the region. "As a community, we have come of age.  We would not allow that our son be abused anyhow as he is our torchbearer," Ongwae said. The governor read the statement on behalf of the team. Others who attended the meeting were Nyamira Deputy Governor Amos Nyaribo and some MCAs. A meeting to be attended by all leaders in Gusii will be held next year. “This was just a precursor to a bigger meeting to be held in January. We have taken the first step,” Ongwae said. Kitutu Chache South MP Richard Onyonka said legislators who failed to attend the function were on official duties in the US and Kampala, Uganda. During the meeting, Bonchari MP John Oroo and his Nyaribari Masaba counterpart Ezekiel Machogu announced that they have quit the Tangatanga group. They pledged to join other Gusii leaders in uniting the community. “I’m confident that the remaining MPs and other leaders who are in the other group will join us. We want to be united 100 per cent. I don’t want to be in a group where our son (Matiangi) is called names,”  Machogu said. He said Bomachoge Borabu MP Zadoc Ogutu is also on his way out of the group that supports Deputy President William Ruto. “You are aware some people were in Sugoi on Monday. Even my people went there but I want to disassociate myself from the group. I decided to return home because we also have our son who needs our support,” Oroo said. On Monday, Kisii Deputy Governor Joash Maangi led four MPs and a group of about 1,500 people to DP Ruto’s home in Sugoi where they pledged their loyalty to him. MPs who went to Sugoi were Alfah Miruka (Bomachoge Chache), Sylvanus Osoro (South Mugirango), Vincent Kemosi (West Mugirango) and North Mugirango’s Joash Nyamoko. Several MPs also attended the function where they resolved to continue supporting the DP’s presidential ambitions.