DPP Noordin Haji was Monday feted by Transparency International for his spirited fight against corruption and enforcing integrity in leadership. The award citation indicated that Haji was honoured for committing personal contributions in injecting proactive leadership into the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions. This has resulted in significant gains in ensuring integrity in leadership. “For acts of integrity, demonstrating exemplary leadership and for his personal contribution to offering strategic direction as a state officer-in-charge of the Office of Director of Public Prosecutions,” the citation read. The leadership integrity award recognised Haji’s efforts in steadfastly steering public prosecutions and giving it strategic direction. Also honoured was Judge Mumbi Ngugi of the High Court. She bagged the Judicial Integrity award “for her significant contribution to developing the jurisprudence for interpretation of Chapter Six of the Constitution”. “Recognising Justice Mumbi Ngugi for her significant contribution towards the progressive interpretation of the Constitution to breath life to the national values and principles of leadership and integrity,” read the inscription on her award. Justice Mumbi’s rulings have been widely acclaimed for developing the local jurisprudence, the outstanding one being his ruling that bars county governors facing corruption charges in court from stepping into their offices and executing roles. The precedent-setting ruling in the corruption case that Samburu Governor Samwel Lonkulal is still battling has now barred governors Ferdinand Waititu of Kiambu and Nairobi’s Mike Sonko from office after they were charged with graft. Former Auditor-General Edward Ouko got the integrity award for his firm-handed leadership while he was at the helm of the audit office. “For acts of integrity, demonstrating exemplary leadership received by Edward Ouko for offering dedicated leadership during his tenure at the Office of the Auditor General,” the inscription on his award read. Activist Okiya Omtatah was awarded for his watchfulness in defence of public interest — “acts of integrity to respect, uphold and defend the Constitution of Kenya”. He is famous for challenging the administrative decisions of public authorities and laws and policies through courts. Critics, however, tend to view him to be unnecessarily litigious. "Recognising Mr Okiya Okoiti Omtatah for acts of integrity demonstrating patriotism and courage in promoting the application of article 10 of the constitution," the citation read. Omtatah later tweeted, “I feel extremely humbled and honoured to receive the Uzalendo #IntegrityAwards 2019 for acts of integrity to respect, uphold and defend the Constitution.” Also honoured were whistle-blowers in the Maasai Mara University corruption scandal, recognising their integrity and moral convictions that made them speak out against blatant embezzlement of public funds.