Leaders from the Nyambene region have asked Governor Kiraitu Murungi to build a male patients ward to ease suffering. The leaders said male patients from the region have to be transported to Meru Level 5 Hospital. MCA Kimathi Ithibua (Kiegoi), Jediel Mauta (Ntunene), Romano Mwito (Kangeta), George Muthuri (Maua) and Meru County Secretary Rufus Miriti said the region is disadvantaged and it is time the government comes to their aid. Miriti lamented that Maua town residents and traders have been suffering since the onset of rains and many of them have vacated their premises due to flooding. Miriti asked the governor to consider the plea of the locals and permanently address the problem of drainage. “We have very poor drainage in Maua town and I do not know if rains continue to pound, how we shall live in this town. We are suffering because there is no proper sewerage connection. Our market is in bad condition whereas we aim to a 24-hour economy in Maua. I hail governor because I know he will address the challenge. We expect more staff and cars to help in Garbage collection,” Miriti said. Muthuri said the Maua town drainage is worse and urged Kiraitu to intervene. “Insecurity is worse. Garbage disposal site in Maua is far and we request for closer disposal.  We heard European Union is to construct 120 kilometers of road in Meru, we ask you to lobby for only 20 kilometres to come to Maua. We do not have a single male Ward in all the public hospitals,” Muthuri said. Ithibua said Maua Stadium was allocated money by President Uhuru Kenyatta but no one knows what transpired because the stadium is currently flooded and not a single improvement done. Governor Kiraitu said it is saddening to loose people and families suffering displacement through floods and property destroyed. “We are working tirelessly to transform Meru but we need ideas. We are doing our best to open up impassable roads, pave with Cabros our markets and towns improving drainage. But problems won’t end in the world,” Kiraitu said.