The national government in partnership with the Kisumu county is set to build a multi-million Uhuru Business Park Market Complex. President Uhuru Kenyatta is expected to commission the construction of the Sh350 million market at Jua Kali area on a date yet to be announced. The market to be constructed on 23 acres of land will host more than 10,000 small scale traders whose shops were demolished on the streets of Kisumu and from Kenya Railways land. The demolitions were to pave way for the modernisation and rehabilitation of the Sh3 billion Kisumu port. The land has been surrendered by Kenya Railways to Kisumu county to resettle the evicted traders. The construction works are expected to be completed in six months. On Wednesday, city manager Doris Ombara handed over the site to the contractor. Ombara said they have already received Sh350 million from the national government for the project. Last month, Kenya Railways MD Philip Mainga handed over the land title deed to Nyanza regional commissioner James Kianda on the site. Transport Principal Secretary Esther Koimett and her Fisheries counterpart, Ntiba Micheni said during the ceremony that the government will support the traders. Koimett said they want to ensure that the small scale traders have a conducive environment to contribute to President Uhuru ’s Big Four agenda. “The president has given infrastructural development on Lake Victoria a priority following the revitalisation of Kisumu inland port, the construction of the oil jetty and rail network to enhance transport in the East African Community region,” she said. Kisumu, Koimett said, was a strategic town within the EAC region and the revival of lake transport will enhance trade in the area. Small scale traders were rendered jobless after Kenya Railway demolished their structures constructed on Kenya Railways land. They have been pushing both the national and county governments to resettle them. Kianda noted that the traders will be involved in the plan of the construction to ensure all sectors are accommodated. “The market will have several components, including stalls, eateries and garages with a provision for transport services,” he said. However, the construction of the complex is facing resistance from Jua Kali artisans who have laid a claim to a section of land earmarked for the hub. But Ombara said that the construction of the complex will begin in part of the undisputed land as the matter is being solved. Kisumu Centre Juakali Artisans Association said their land had been included in the plan without their knowledge and consent. The artisans are claiming 8.2 acres out of the 23. Treasurer David Odanga said the land was given to them by former President Daniel Moi for the crucial role they play in employment creation. They claimed that they were issued with an allotment letter in January 1994 and a lease the same year. Odanga said the association owns the land and has been paying the land rates to the county government as required. He said the association had conceptualised its own design as it planned to set up a structure to accommodate their 37,000 members. Jua kali members accused the national and county governments of sidelining them on the plan to construct the proposed market complex. “The design for the industrial park is meant to take away the land that was given to us through a Presidential decree,” Odanga said. Odinga said there was no public participation conducted and they will resist attempts to take their land. “We will only allow the national government to help them build their design and not hive off the 8.2 acres of their land to put up a modern market to house all traders in the city,” Odanga said. He noted that they had a verbal engagement both with the county and regional commissioners office but the designs have ignored those agreements. Artisan Jack Kopako wondered what happened to the initial plan to construct on the land where tenants of the upper railway's houses were evicted. “We will maintain our stand. This land is ours. We acquired it legally and we are not going anywhere,” Kopako said. For the last three months, some of the traders and hawkers have been living in agony after the demolitions rendered them jobless. The traders incurred huge losses and are still grappling with how to start business afresh. Governor Anyang’ Nyong'o defended the evictions, noting that they had secured the 23-acre parcel to establish a market for the hawkers. Nyong’o said the relocation was aimed at sanitising the city's growth. (edited by O. Owino)