Kenya Hockey Union has been challenged to develop infrastructure and attract  sponsorship if they are to match continental giants like Egypt and South Africa. Ghanaian side, Exchequers coach Richmond Attipoe said grassroot development is key in any sport. Exchequers are in the country to play friendly matches with four local Premier League clubs and a Kenya Select side “Kenya need to invest in building modern turfs because they only have one. Ghana has also one but as we speak, the current administration is working on four modern pitches and they should be ready before the Ghanaian league kicks off in March," he said. Exchequers chairman Frank Oti-Mensah who has officiated at the International hockey  Federation (IHF) level and  has been picked to officiate at the Olympics next year said financial support gives teams the privilege to conduct its activities and this works well in raising the standards. Exchequers are sponsored by the Central Bank of Ghana and the feeder club is slowly finding its way back to the top of their game after a turbulent period before 2017. Oti-Mensah said the sport is expensive for clubs to stand on their own His sentiments come in the wake of massive pullout by Kenyan club from continental events. He said: “Funding the game is costly and that is why financiers have to come on board. Honestly as a club, without the support of the bank, we would have depleted a long time ago. Kenya should focus more on sponsoring the clubs and national team if they have to bridge the wide gap that exists between them and the continent's best teams.” He asked KHU to tap talent from the grassroots level at an early age for them to be moulded into future superstars. He said they have offered the opportunity to street children who not only have the skill but also the quality to thrive at the top level with the right development. “We have a group of coaches who are committed to develop pupils from as low as class four. Once every week the kids interact with the coaches. The basic development of children is necessary," he said. He continued: “Egypt have conquered Africa because most of their players play in Europe. South Africa are competitive as they have their players in the Netherlands and Belgium. Without similar exposure we are going nowhere." Exchequers demolished Sikh Union 5-1 on Saturday. 