Kenya and Ghana are pondering launching a five-nation tournament from next year. This is in a bid to increase the number of competitions in Africa to three with the a view of improving the standards of the game and exposing more players. Africa Hockey Federation have only two competitions—the African Cup of Nations, which is  held bi-annually and the annual African Cup for Club Championship that was inaugurated in 1988. The ACC competition has largely been dominated by Egypt's El Sharkia who have won it  a record 23 times. The Olympic qualifiers though is a quadrennial event and Africa will be represented by South Africa in Tokyo next year. Frank Oti-Mensah, the chairman of Ghanaian side Exchequers who are in the country for friendly matches with local Premier League clubs, said they will try to convince Nigeria, Uganda, and Tanzania to join them. He said in as much as the ACC tournament brings together top-cream teams, it does not make sense since it has got no cash reward despite the heavy spending by clubs. He said if they become successful in their plans, the host nation will provide for accommodation. “We will sit down after our exploits in Kenya and chart the way forward. Kenya and Ghana are already in a partnership and we will try to convince willing nations to join us. Nigeria and other two East African countries will surely be enough to play in a competitive tournament,” noted the pro league manager who will also be officiating in the Tokyo 2020 Olympics. “To be honest, our players lack the exposure to compete at the top level largely because of the few competitions in the continent. An 18-year-old European player has more caps and experience than an African of the same age because they participate in several competitions at all age levels. The only way we can compete with them is to hold competitions more often,” intimated Mensah. “Free accommodation will be a priority because of the current financial struggles our clubs are undergoing to help lower the operating cost.” Exchequers beat Sikh Union 5-1 in the opening match last Saturday before drubbing Greensharks 7-2 on Sunday. Ghanaians, however, lost 2-1 against the Kenya Select side a day later. They play Wazalendo today. 