Kenyan Premier League has started negotiations with Football Kenya Federation to have their deal to run the top flight renewed for a period exceeding three years. KPL’s mandate to man the elite football competition in the country is set to expire in September next year but the firm is keen to convince FKF to extend their contract. KPL’s chief executive officer, Jack Oguda, said he expects the federation to extend their tenure based on the success they have had in the past years. Oguda cited the forthcoming elections as the stumbling block to the final stage of the negotiations but was optimistic of a positive outcome after the polls. FKF president Nick Mwendwa is on record insisting that his office was not keen to renew the deal but so far,no other firm has shown interest in running the league. The federation oversees the National Super League and five other tiers through the county and sub-county offices affiliated to the national office. “We have began negotiations with FKF seeking to have our contract renewed for a period not less than three years. We are optimistic they will give us the green-light to run the league considering we have done well in the past. We are aware they are currently focusing on elections but we are certain once the dust settles, they will put pen to paper regardless of the outcome of the polls,”said Oguda. Meanwhile, clubs plying their trade in the top flight will have to put up with lack of grants for longer period. This is after KPL revealed that their search for a new title sponsor had not borne fruits yet but promised to intensify their quest from next year. “We are likely to begin the new year without a sponsor as the proposals sent to various corporates are yet to bear positive response. We ask clubs to tighten their belts as the league will continue as planned,”added Oguda. At the same time,the firm confirmed they had not rolled out plans to purchase a new diadem for the league winner. Gor Mahia retained the big-eared trophy after winning the league for three consecutive seasons. “We have not gotten money to buy a new trophy for the winner. We hope to do so before the league ends.”