Shujaa will be seeking to bounce back at the Cape Town Sevens today following an underwhelming performance in Dubai last weekend. Kenya open their campaign against Samoa at 6pm in the opening match at the Cape Town Stadium. Paul Feeney's charges will then face Australia tomorrow at 11:57 am before winding up their preliminary pool matches against Ireland at 5:47 pm. Kenya and Samoa last met at the Paris Sevens in June with Kenya coming out tops with a narrow 21-20 win. The South Pacific Islanders were superb form last weekend in the Arabian gulf, finishing fourth overall. Head Coach Paul Feeney has tweaked a few things in training this week to sharpen up the defence and attack. "We have worked on a few things like line speed in defence to combat the threat posed by the three teams we are facing in the pool and try and get a win,” he added. He said despite the defeats last week in Dubai, he was impressed with his charges. "We lost by five points to South Africa who were the eventual winners and seven points to England who finished third overall. I think we are headed in the right direction as a unit," he added. The coach noted that Samoa are a robust physical side and Kenya will have to play to their strengths to win the match. "The Samoans are very direct so we must match them upfront and minimise on our error-rate against them and take our chances to come out top,” noted Feeney. The tactician described Australia as a tactically astute good team.  Kenya lost 28-12 to the Aussies in Hong Kong in March in their last encounter. "They did the basics well. They are a sharp and competitive side who will fight all the way," he added. He said Ireland were a tricky side who on their day can beat anyone if heir qualification to the world series is anything to go by. They are a hard working side and will want to prove a point in the pool. Under the new format, the top two teams qualify for the pools while the teams that finish third and fourth drop to the classification matches where they play only one match. The quarterfinals, semifinals and final will be played on Sunday. Shujaa have had poor run in the last two season in the mother city,  finishing 13th overall with quarterfinal appearances in 2016 and semi final in 2015.