Kenya Hockey Union (KHU) Premier League Clubs would like to forget 2019 in a hurry, owing to the high number of injuries that left them with skeleton squads. Most teams were left to make do without key players who were laid off for the better part of the season. Wazalendo missed the services of captain Kennedy Munialo and striker Mathew Mutiso. Munialo was out for one and a half months with a broken finger and missed national team Olympic qualifiers duties in South Africa while Mutiso was sidelined for the entire month of August with a muscle injury. Mutiso was one of the biggest players in the Fidelis Kimanzi-tutored side and prior to the unforgettable injury, he had scored five of Wazalendo's 13 goals. The injuries were a major blow to the team with surprising loses to struggling Strathmore Gladiators, and USIU-A Mashujaa tough to comprehend. The outcome, however, favoured the champions Butali. Pacy Police winger Danstone Baraza missed a month of action as he trained in Germany.  His absence was felt as the club's title hopes dwindled with the South B-based  club settling for the second spot. Kenya Police were compelled to tweak their starting line up on many occasions. Accomplished midfielder Willis Okeyo spent nearly three months in Germany with VfB Stuttgart for training and coaching courses twice this year. Defensive stalwart Samson Kibirir and Samwel Kibweche were notable absentees and so was the energetic Robert Masibo. Coach Patrick Mugambi reverted to a make-shift defence that was held culpable of leaking numerous goals and disoriented his plans. Inconsistency became a major concern. The law enforcers finished third and missed on a spot at the African Cup for Club Champions next year. Relegated Parklands missed the services of 2018 runners up top scorer Allan Odongo and his unavailability was partly to blame for their demotion to the Super League. Butali's George Mutira could not play against his former employers Police due to suspension Perhaps women side USIU-A Spartans could be basking in the glory of winning the title had superb striker Vivian Esimi not sustained a season-long ankle fracture injury since July in the Betty Tioni tournament in Nakuru. It was an untimely blow for the students who were tipped to dethrone Blazers of the title but it remained a pipe dream. The skilled forward was at pains in the 4-0 loss to Blazers where instead of leading the line, he was named the team manager for the match. Esimi though is expected to return to training in February and won't be fit for the season opener. She is feeling better but remains cautious not to rush back into action from the career-threatening injury as the Willy Okeyo coached side aim to better their second place. "I feel restored after a tough period. Hopefully, will be back on the ground in February but anything beyond that I am not sure." Strathmore Scorpions captain Gilly Okumu could not turn down the opportunity to learn from Germany side Frankfurt.  Her abroad exploits meant she could not help prevent the team from losing 3-2 against newbies Lakers. Scorpions' drab draw with Spartans further pushed them to finish third in the league. 