The construction of the multi-million-shilling Inland Container Depot at Mai Mahiu Industrial Park has been completed. This paves the way for the transportation of cargo from Mombasa to Naivasha. However, the logistics centre is still under construction. The park sits on 1,000 acres donated to the government by Kedong ranch. Naivasha deputy commissioner Mathioya Mbogo said the ICD was completed in time. The dual-carriageway from the park to the Mai Mahiu-Narok road is also complete, Mbogo said in his office. “Work on the Inland Container Depot was completed as scheduled.  The focus is now on the logistics centre within the industrial park,” he said. Also complete is the road extension from the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) line to the ICD. “This means that cargo can now be ferried all the way from Mombasa to Naivasha SGR terminus as the extension works are now complete,” the administrator said. On resettlement of the displaced families, Mbogo said that the first phase of the resettlement of displaced families has been done successfully with 50 families relocated to the 4,000 acres also donated by Kedong ranch. “The communities affected by this project have been very co-operative and we have relocated the first families,” he said. He commended the Maasai community for positively participating in the relocation. Meanwhile, Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui has announced the suspension of land sub-division between Mai Mahiu and Naivasha towns. This gives room to the formulation of a master plan for the industrial park expected to host tens of local and international companies. Kinyanjui said it is also meant to stop the mushrooming of informal settlements in and around Mai Mahiu town. “We have suspended the sub-division of land between Mai Mahiu and Naivasha town until we have a master plan to control the construction of structures.” The termed the industrial park a game-changer for the county as several local and international companies have committed to investing in the area. 