The Kikuyu Council of Elders have called upon Mt Kenya leaders sensitize the community on the BBI report during Christmas holidays. The elders said they want to see that the BBI process taken with utmost respect so that Kenyans can understand it. “We want to see our leaders take the BBI to the people in the grassroots and politics should be put aside where even on Christmas there should be teachings and sensitization on BBI as we are not taking this issue lightly,” said national chairman Wachira Kiago. Kiago called upon the Kikuyu community to look keenly and learn on what the BBI is all about while putting the country first in it’s unity and peace. “This is our country and we want our people to read carefully and understand the BBI since we want peace and unity of all Kenyans and we all must protect it,” said Kiago. The elders warned political leaders from using the BBI as a tool to propagate their own interests. They added that there is too much politics being played with the BBI  which is causing a lot of confusion to the common persons. Peter Munga, the council's secretary general, said that the elders also gave their views during the BBI report making and the main thing they wanted to see is equal representation. “On inclusivity, it has capture the equal representation well and we do not want to be seen as Kikuyu’s stuck on presidency there are times it has been costly to the community," "If you look at the current numbers in census the Kikuyu community has not been given equal share according to its population but inclusivity has been captured well since we want a presidency respected despite who will take the helm." Munga said that the BBI is creating a situation where leadership is respected as opposed to the current situations where President Uhuru Kenyatta has been assaulted before by leaders. Peter Karanja, representing elders in Uasin Gishu, castigated Bahati MP Kimani Ngunjiri for creating  divisions by leading a delegations to DP William Ruto's Sugoi home last week "Kimani Ngunjiri has no right to create a ceremony which has not been sanctioned by the elders and he should stop conflicting the kikuyu community in his political interests," said Karanja. The chairman also castigated the leaders from Mt.Kenya region whom he said have been divided by petty politics.