Embu Governor Martin Wambora on Thursday took a swipe at county MCAs for what he termed as interference in running the affairs of the executive arm of the devolved unit. Citing various cases of intimidation of senior officers by the MCAs, Wambora told them to stick to the mandate of representation, oversight and legislation and allow him to deliver his campaign pledges to the people. “For the last eight years, I have only had one year of peace to perform my duties, the rest of the time has been spent in courts as ward representatives pushed their selfish agenda to destabilise the executive, this should end. The law is very clear on the roles of two arms of the county government. We cannot continue with wrangles at the expense of development” the governor said. He spoke at Runyenjes Stadium in Embu East where Jamhuri Day celebrations were held. In November, the MCAs took to the streets calling on the governor to sack chief officers and directors accusing them of corruption. They further barricaded streets and set several revenue collection offices on fire and ordered the business community to cease paying revenue to the county government on allegations that the funds collected were lining the pockets of some county officials. Subsequently, Wambora sought court orders restraining them from inciting the public and allowing the county to continue collecting revenue. “We cannot have elected representatives paralysing the operations of the county and misleading the same public they purport to represent," Wambora said. “I went to court to bar the MCAs from taking over duties that have nothing to do with them constitutionally. If the county is to be run on the whims of the assembly, it will easily go down on its knees." He said he chose the legal way "as he respects the law". "I must build roads, equip hospitals and develop and seek markets for the county's coffee, tea, avocado and other cash crops," he added. Speaking at the same event, county commissioner Abdullahi Galgallo said that all bars operating in the villages will be closed down. He noted that the youth were gradually being turned into zombies by local brews and third-generation liquor. Edited by R.Wamochie