Teachers in Homa Bay have expressed dissatisfaction with the Form One selection of KCPE candidates. A spot check done by the Star on Wednesday at various schools in Homa Bay revealed many parents and students were unhappy after discovering that the learners were picked to schools they never selected. At Janeiro Junior Academy in Rangwe constituency, 16 students will  be joining  schools they never chose. Deputy school manager Melabon Ouma said the 16 students include Hiba Philip, a 15-year-old pupil who scored 406 marks. Hiba got a slot a Kathiani Girls Secondary even though she had picked Kenya High. “The manner in which the selection was done has disillusioned many parents and pupils. We engaged parents in our school during selection but it is unfortunate that the children have been selected to schools they never chose,” Ouma said. However, Ouma said some of his students who were admitted to national schools got their choices. “About 50 students secured chances in national schools, which were their choices. But I appeal to the Ministry of Education  to review the method of Form One selection,” Ouma said. Similar complaints were raised at St Paul Catholic Education Centre in Homa Bay Town constituency where three boys were sent to girls schools. Crawly Junior Onyango and Robert Otieno were given places at Zambani Girls. Onyango got 358 marks while Otieno got 361 marks. Jenssen Ochieng who scored 366 marks was called to Marsabit Girls. School manager Alice Otieno said the Form One selection was full errors which led to unfairness. Otieno suggested that the government should stop a policy in which KCPE candidates select secondary school schools before sitting the exams. “There is no need for pupils to select schools if this is what can happen. The pupils’ parents are now worried about which schools their children will join,” she said. At St Joseph’s Combined in Karachuonyo constituency, head teacher Daniel Aloo expressed dissatisfaction with the selection. “We have more than seven candidates who were called to schools they never selected. The process was unfair,” Aloo said. Mary Muruku, a parent at Janeiro Junior Academy, said the selection disadvantaged many parents. “My son scored 402 marks but he has been called to St Joseph’s Boys Kitale instead of Kabsabet Boys. They have inconvenienced us,” Muruku.