Gatanga MP Joseph Nduati has asked leaders allied to Deputy President William Ruto to stop attacking Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i and other government officials. The MP said it is unfair for politicians to hurl insults at government officials who cannot answer back. Nduati said the Building Bridges Initiative report was meant to bring people together and that it is unfortunate that divisions continue to show. On Saturday, Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichung’wa and Senate Majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen accused Matiang'i of frustrating leaders allied to Ruto. Murkomen alleged that Matiang’i plotted to have him heckled at Bomas during the launch of the BBI report when he should have been in West Pokot helping victims of the landslide that killed 52. The two leaders reminded Matiang’i of the Ruaraka land scandal, with Murkomen saying he was the one who saved the CS from the probe. “You can confirm in the Hansard report but now power has gotten into his head he thinks he can lecture us,” Murkomen said. But Nduati said it was wrong for Ruto to allow the two leaders who support him to make such utterances in his presence. He said Ruto should calm his followers because they are all members of Jubilee party which propagates peace and unity under the President. “I am asking Ruto not to be drawn into meetings in which leaders insult others because we know him as a leader who is humble and a Christian,” Nduati said. The MP said the President has sent his MPs to the grassroots to empower Kenyans and discuss issues that affect them such as tea, milk and coffee. He also noted that Mt Kenya leaders respect Ruto in his capacity as the deputy president and his supporters should in the same way respect government officials. “Ruto has been invited to all Jubilee functions and has been working together with the President but some people who are going around seeking votes are the ones sowing discord,” he said. He said contrary to some allegations, no government officer or administrator has been prohibited from attending Ruto’s meetings. Nduati said in Bomas, it was generally agreed that most of the speakers should be people who supported BBI. The few opposers who were given a chance to give speeches, he said, made unfavourable remarks. He said it was unfortunate that the Embu meeting called afterwards and attended by a section of Mt Kenya leaders to discuss the report failed to unite the region. When we heard about the meeting, we thought the divisions would now be over but it was not to be,” Nduati said. The MP also called for action to be taken against cabinet secretaries who attend non-state functions that are political. Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri attended the meeting that called for the BBI report to be implemented through parliament.