Deputy President William Ruto took a break from his holiday to react to a statement by Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka on 2022. Ruto took to his Twitter account to 'welcome' Kalonzo to Jubilee saying the party was 'progressive and focused'. His tweet was accompanied by a clip of the Wiper leader where he announced that he will stick to President Uhuru Kenyatta's succession plan. "Welcome man Stevo (Stephen Kalonzo) to Uhuru's Jubilee, the progressive, focused, all-encompassing political movement. Our priority is the accelerated implementation of the Big 4 and Jubilee transformation manifesto," Ruto wrote signing off as Jubilee deputy party leader. Ruto's tweet appeared to entrench further the notion that Uhuru wants Kalonzo and the DP to work together in retaining Jubilee in power in 2022. Uhuru and Ruto got together formally in 2012 and came up with what came to be known as the 20 years of Jubilee in power. However, in the recent past, though he has not said whether he still supports the Jubilee plan, Uhuru has been sending mixed signals on his succession. In the clip, Kalonzo, who was speaking to Ukambani leaders at his Yatta farm, said that come 2022, he will focus on whichever direction that Uhuru takes in his succession plan. "Where my brother Uhuru Muigai Kenyatta will be in the next election cycle, I will be there with him. We shall be there. There are some who want Kalonzo to get from there and just fall down," Kalonzo said. Ruto's comment which appeared sarcastic comes at a time when there is a growing debate in Ukambani on the direction the region should take ahead of 2022. Last week, former Machakos Senator Johnstone Muthama announced that he was working on plans to see Ruto and Kalonzo form a 2022 alliance. Kalonzo immediately reacted to the statement saying that he would not want to antagonise Uhuru by engaging with Ruto. On Wednesday, Muthama shot back accusing Kalonzo of using the region for selfish gains with his engagement with Uhuru. He then declared that he was the new Ukambani political kingpin. Before the dust could settle, Wiper leaders from the region led by Parliamentarians accused Muthama of undermining their 2022 candidate for the presidency - Kalonzo. And then it was a matter of hours before Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua dismissed Kalonzo and Muthama saying they do not speak for the region.