The Ministry of ICT has urged colleges and universities to shape their curricula in line with job market demands. Principal Secretary Jerome Ochieng’ said the institutions should invest in ICT skills, training, and development. “The nature of work is changing and I think we really need to focus on what the market wants,” Ochieng said. Ochieng said although ICT has led to the creation of jobs, the numbers created remain low when compared to the entrants into the job market. He spoke on Monday during the Huawei ICT Competition 2019-2020 awards ceremony in Nairobi. Twenty top students who made the national final of the competition were awarded. Maluki Mathusi from the University of Nairobi and Ngetich Kimaiyo from Kabarak University emerged as the 2019-2020 ICT competition winners, receiving Huawei Matebook Pros. Multimedia University was awarded the Best ICT Academy. Other winning students were drawn from JKUAT, Laikipia University, Strathmore University among others. The PS said the ICT sector is experiencing inconsistency in infrastructure and services between the urban and the rural areas. “With the high level of internet penetration, we are currently at 89 per cent. Internet access on its own is not enough. We also need to have the affordability to enhance the usage of technology,” he said. He advised young people to take advantage of emerging technologies. University education director Darius Mogaka said that there is a need to ensure that teachers are well equipped to train students growing in a digital environment. “Understanding and leveraging are critical for universities in our endeavour that will contribute to economic and social progress. Investments in ICTs are an investment in human capital development,” he said. Among those who attended the event were Huawei Kenya deputy CEO Daniel Yang, Unesco East Africa head of the natural science sector Jayakumar Ramasamy and the minister-counsellor of Chinese Embassy Zhao Xiyuan. Huawei has launched 30 ICT academies in the last two years. The competition attracted over 6,400 applicants from 40 universities. Eighteen students received internship offers from Huawei and partner companies including Sybyl, BCK, China Mobile International, China Telecom Kenya, Smoothtel  Data Solutions, Cloud Productivity Solutions, Opticom and Percap