More than 100 families affected by floods in Muhoroni sub-county, Kisumu county, have benefited from food and non-food items from the national government. Muhoroni Deputy County Commissioner Erick Wanyonyi said flood victims received bags of maize, tableware, mattresses, blankets and fortified flour. “The government has given food and non-food items to all affected families in the area,” Wanyonyi said. The government, he said, will distribute more relief food depending on the situation and number of affected families. “We are closely monitoring the conditions of the floods. We will act according to the situation on the ground,” Wanyonyi said. He urged residents in flood-prone areas to move to safer grounds to avoid loss of properties and lives. He spoke on Thursday during Jamhuri Day celebrations. Wanyonyi told residents to exercise caution during the rainy season and urged parents not to allow children to wade through raging waters or rivers. “We must ensure children are safe during this holiday to avoid drowning in the rivers and water flows,” he added. Wanyonyi advised locals to plant more trees along the river banks. The administrator noted that plans are underway to provide a permanent solution to perennial floods in the area. Muhoroni MP Onyango Koyoo asked the government to build dykes along River Nyando to control water overflow in Muhoroni. He also wants the county government to do proper drenching of rivers in Muhoroni. "Those cultivating along the river banks should also stop as such contribute to the deposition of soil into the rivers," Koyoo said. The lawmaker told the county and national governments to put in place the proper mechanism of disaster preparedness. "This will help tackle last-minute rush in mitigating emergencies," Koyoo said. He also assured locals of plans to construct the Soin-Koru multi-purpose dam aimed at addressing flood problems as well as provide water for irrigation. The construction of the Sh20 billion multipurpose dam is yet to start three years down the line. The project, straddling Kericho and Kisumu counties, is targeted at controlling floods when Nyando River overflows. The job was scheduled to begin in 2016. In March, Kisumu Water executive Samuel Orimba said the dam is also meant to generate hydroelectric power. He asked the national government to speed up the construction to address the biting water shortage in the region. On completion, the dam will transform the lives of residents through agriculture and industrialisation. Orimba said the county government had reached out to the national government and was on the final stretch of reactivating the project.