A parliamentary report, whose implementation could have led to high-profile prosecutions of the architects of the flopped Kenya Railways privatisation deal, is gathering dust, the Star can reveal. The Public Investments Committee of the National Assembly had ten years ago recommended that swift action be taken against top government officials and deal-makers behind the privatization of the Kenya Railway. In 2006, Rift valley Railways, whose lead investor is Sheltam, won a 25-year deal to modernize and run the Mombasa-Uganda meter gauge railway but the deal was called in 2017 after a court order. It is exactly 10 years since the PIC exposed the negligence that led to the collapse of the first concession yet none of those accused of having led the government into this deal have been held to account. In its report that was tabled in Parliament and approved by the House in June 2009, the public watchdog committee called for action on the indicted individuals that led the country to into debts to the excess of Sh13 billion. The committee, which was then chaired by Meru Senators Mithika Linturi(then Igembe South MP) said those behind the botched privatisation bid failed taxpayers. “The Rift Valley Railways was a wasteful monster whose services must be terminated without further reference to the agreement it entered into with the Government,” the committee concluded in its 16th report. The Report had revealed the government officials bypassed crucial stages including ignoring to conduct “thorough” due diligence on before the concession deal was signed with Roy Puffet on January 23, 2006. Puffet owned Sheltam, which had majority shares in the Cairo based Rift Valley Railways. “It would have been possible to detect that Puffet did not have money right from the start if the due diligence conducted was thorough and if the Treasury had demanded for guarantees that the money is available,” the committee observed. Among the government officials who oversaw the concession agreement were then Finance minister Amos Kimunya, Transport Minister Chirau Ali Mwakwere, Finance Secretary Joseph Kinyua and Investment Secretary Esther Koimett. The report had put the blame for the botched deal on government officials for handing over the Kenya Railways to Sheltam “without due diligence.” “The financial statements of Sheltam Rail Company presented for pre-qualification indicate that the current liabilities of R14,797,474 (Sh118 billion) exceeds current assets of R10,813,929 (Sh88 billion), resulting in a negative working capital of R3,983,549 (Sh31 billion),” noted the PIC panel. The company had committed to investing Sh 40 million annually for the turnaround based on the concession agreement. To win the concession bid Puffet under the expert guidance of his advisor, Vishal Agarwal, then partner at audit firm PwC provided “healthy” financial statements that were said not to have been certified by their company accountant. ‘No audit is required by the Act to be carried out and no audit was conducted,” PwC said in its letter to the accounts for the year ended February, 2003. Agarwal would later leave PwC in 2013 following failure to disclose key details on a transaction he was in charge of on behalf of the audit firm. According to the PIC report, a letter from the the Ministry of Transport dated October 31st 2006, confirmed the inability of the concessionaire to meet its financial obligations. “Right from the early days of entering into the concession agreement. Sheltam had been in operation for 2 years and 2 months before the concession but was only incorporated in Mauritius in 2006 the sole purpose of the concession transaction. In short, the company, was not qualified to win a concession of this magnitude and scale,” reads a confidential document sent to the committee from the ministry. While the government, in July 2017, terminated the concession after a seven months court battled with the RVR, there are concerns that people accused of having rushed the country into the deal are walking scotfree. There are claims that political machinations, vested interests and influence from powerful forces in government have scuttled investigating agencies from making any progress in bringing those responsible to book.