The fight against Gender-Based Violence in Taita Taveta county is being slowed down by collusion between parents and guardians with sex pests to solve cases out of court, stakeholders have lamented. Voi assistant county commissioner Irene Ndambuki said a number of cases are never reported to authorities as families protect suspects for fear of suffering public agony. “Family members are aiding in protecting relatives accused of sexual offences. We can’t win the fight against sexual offences and gender-based violence if we continue hiding the offenders,” she said. She said all GBV cases must be reported for appropriate action to be taken. Speaking in Voi on Wednesday, the administrator warned perpetrators of sexual and gender-based violence that stern action shall be taken against them. Taita Taveta has been facing high cases of GBV which has mostly affected young girls and older women. Most victims do not get justice due to lack of evidence or pressure from family members to drop the case. The area is also on the spotlight over the rising number of early marriages. Macrina Mwamburi from the Sauti ya Wanawake raised alarm over increasing cases of teenage pregnancies and defilement of minors by close relatives. She said there is also an increase in insecurity cases for which she blamed increasing brewing of illicit liquor. She said many youths partake in the brews resulting in sexual violence. “The government should also prioritise the war against illicit brew so as to curb the increasing GBV cases,” she noted. During the International Human Rights Day on Tuesday, three Taita Taveta officers were feted for their efforts in protecting human rights. Senior chief Yunus Jureji was awarded for his efforts in fighting Female Genital Mutilation in Kitobo location where cross-border FGM is practised. Mwatate OCS Edward Farrah was feted for fighting GBV cases in the region while county Lands Registrar Mike Sego was recognised for supporting women's land rights. Edited by R.Wamochie