A total of 1, 224 police officers on Monday graduated after undergoing a successful training police standardisation program. The officers are the first batch to pass out in a ceremony held at the Kiganjo training college. Of these, 995 were previously from the Administration Police Service (APS) and 229 from the Kenya Police Service-KPS. The officers undertook a two-month Standardisation Program training which entailed case Management, Essential Areas of Law, Human Rights and Crime Scene Management, among others. This was in line with the Police Reforms that will see all police records automated at all police stations for the enhancement of accountability and transparency. This will also ensure that no one will interfere with police investigations. The Reforms saw 24, 000 Administration Officers officially merged with the Kenya Police. “You will recall on 13th September 2018, I directed that realignment of the National Police Service command structure, to be undertaken, as part of the police service reforms so as to enhance effective and efficient service delivery,” Interior CS Fred Matiangi said. Matiangi said as a result of the merger, the Ministry of Interior and the National Police Service will move forward with the agreed plans to modernise and transform the operations of the Police Service. In October this year, the National Police service embarked on a plan that will see all the Ex administration officers undertake a mandatory standardized course. According to the circular signed by Boniface Maingi, the move will see the first batch of 1,300 officers undertake the course starting October 24. Maingi said all the courses will be undertaken at Kiganjo College. "Kinganjo has developed a syllabus that will see all the 24,000 officers sensitized and trained," he said. He added that 25 out of 47 counties are expected to nominate 21 ex-administration officers and nine Kenya Police officers to attend the training. The remaining counties will nominate 19 ex administration officers and six Kenya police officers. Nairobi, Mombasa, Kisumu, Kakamega, Busia, Nyeri, and Nandi are among the counties to nominate the 30 officers. This comes amid rising complains from the officers who claim they are being assigned guard duties at police stations and considered inferior. But Matiangi said the government has committed full support for the modernization of the Police Service to meet international standards through the introduction of the Internal Affairs Unit [IAU] and the introduction of the Digital Occurrence Book [DOB]. This he said has hastened the transformation of the workings of the KPS. "I am aware and support the efforts to review further training programs of the Service and introduction of advanced studies to enhance the investigative, enforcement and internal management of the Police Service," Matiang'i said. On his part, Inspector General of Police  Hillary Mutyambai said the skills the officers gained during the training will help them diligently perform their duties in regards to criminal investigations, detection and prevention. “These priceless skills will also help the officers understand police station work, build the spirit of teamwork and demonstrate professionalism,” Mutyambai said. The Police Service Commission will need at least Sh15 billion to implement its four-year strategic plan. The total projected cost of this strategic plan 2019-22 is estimated to be Sh15.57 billion for three financial year period. The implementation of the document will cost Sh4.77 billion, Sh5.07 billion and Sh5.73 billion for the three financial years respectively.