Dadaab MP Mohamed Dahiye as urged police to investigate the circumstances under which two trucks were torched in Sheptaad and Damajale on Thursday. The trucks loaded with assorted goods valued at Sh27 million were set alight by men Dahiye claimed are Kenyan security forces deployed along the border. Dahiye who led MCAs and other leaders from told journalists that the unit “works outside normal security operations and are involved in torturing, destroying properties and extrajudicial killings”. Garissa county commissioner Meru Mwangi asked the MP and the leaders to record a statement with the police if they have evidence linking the incident to security forces. “The legislator understands the law of the land quite well. Let him record a statement with the relevant investigative arm of government and allow the law to take its course,” Mwangi said. According to the leaders, the two trucks destined for Dadaab sub-county were razed by the officers who “move around with hooded faces and obscured vehicles number plates”. “We want to know who are these security officers working outside normal security operations. Who are they answerable to and why do they work with such impunity,” Dahiye said. He added, “As leadership from the area, we support all efforts to fight terrorism in but it must be carried out within the confines of the law.” The legislator said that the security officers who were involved in the incident must be brought to book. “No one is above the law and they must be charged in a court of law for the destruction of properties. These are officers paid by taxpayers’ money that ought to protect lives and properties of Kenyans,” he said. He said the actions by the security forces conducting operations at the border areas may derail fight against terror as it may create civil disobedience. Abakaile MCA Mohamed Ali and his Damajaley counterpart Diriye Bare said they will not accept security officers to mistreat and destroy the local economy in the pretence of fighting terror. Ali called for compensation by the government to business owners whose goods were torched because they have been reduced to paupers. “The government must be answerable to this kind of atrocities. The officers involved must be brought to court as soon as possible,” he said.