North Rift MCAs have planned to step up their oversight role and ensure counties use prudently and effectively the resources allocated for development under devolution. Nandi, Uasin Gishu and Elgeyo Marakwet assemblies were some of the most active in 2019 and MCAs have vowed to sustain their oversight and representation activities for devolution success. “The MCAs have played a very critical role in strengthening devolution and we see 2020 as another year when we will work with other stakeholders for an even greater success of devolution,” Uasin Gishu Majority leader Josphat Lowoi said on Tuesday. Lowoi is also chairman of the majority leaders in all the 47 counties. He said Uasin Gishu MCAs had debated and passed critical bills and motions to ensure Governor Jackson Mandago’s administration operates effectively. “We worked well with Governor Mandago and his executives so that his agenda for the county is implemented and Uasin Gishu is one of the counties where the fruits of devolution can be seen,” Lowoi said. Uasin Gishu MCAs summoned and grilled several county executives in 2019. In neighbouring Elgeyo Marakwet, things were not as rosy as the relationship between Governor Alex Tolgos and MCAs hit the rocks causing a collapse of crucial operations and projects. MCAs accused Tolgos of mismanaging resources while the governor claimed that the assembly had been allocated more resources than they needed, "leaving the county government to struggle funding development activities with little money allocated". Tolgos also accused the MCAs of being used by other forces to frustrate his administration. “My main interest is the welfare of the people of Elgeyo Marakwet and I hope in the new year we will all work together with MCAs and other leaders to take our county forward,” Tolgos said. In Nandi, graft claims stifled most operations. MCAs put Governor Stephen Sang on his toes forcing him to sack three executives and several officials over the graft claims in the education and transport departments. “Residents of Nandi believe the MCAs did a good job in 2019 and hope they will now push for more resources to the wards so we can achieve development at the grassroots," resident Joseph Chelimo said. Most of the assemblies passed the Equitable Development bill that is meant to ensure county resources are allocated fairly to all wards for level development in all areas. Edited by R.Wamochie