Greed and corruption among building contractors and engineers are to blame for collapsing buildings, Public Works PS Gordon Kihalangwa has said. Kihalangwa said the corrupt engineers and quantity surveyors are more focused on profit margins but think less about the ethics and codes in the construction sector. The result has been poor workmanship that has cost lives and destroyed properties when the building collapse, Kihalangwa said. "We have reached a situation where executing government projects has become very expensive. Building a government structure is currently more expensive compared to a private one," he said. He spoke during a validation workshop for draft building codes in Nairobi on Friday. The workshop was convened by the National Construction Authority. It was attended by contractors, engineers, architects and quantity surveyors among other construction sector players. Kihalangwa said that the new codes of construction will rein in rogue contractors. The PS said that most engineers and quantity surveyors have normalised the inflation of costs and substandard workmanship to save on materials. These materials are then used by the unscrupulous professionals to invest in their own ventures, endangering the lives of the users. He also called out contractors, whom he said tend to withdraw their equipment from sites of government projects soon after commissioning to demand hefty claims later. "So there are government projects that have stalled and all that is being done is to service the claims and such claims are not Sh3. They are in billions," he said. Kihalangwa gave an example of Katana Ngala Utalii College whose construction cost, he said, was inflated by quantity surveyors from Sh1.8 billion to over Sh8 billion. "This is very sad and unfair. I hope these new codes will address these irregularities," he said. For those working in government, get your profits and money, yes, but be ethical. Be mindful of the lives of people who perish at the hands of poor workmanship, the PS said. The latest building to collapse was a six-storey house in Tassia, Nairobi that killed over 10 people in early December. Kihalangwa said Nairobi's Huruma estate leads in the number of deadly houses that can collapse at any time. Currently, 323 buildings are condemned there. The government categorised over 716 buildings as unsafe for occupation across the country, he said. "We have categories of buildings marked dangerous, unsafe and fair. This we have established is as a result of unplanned slums and some buildings being set up at night. But with the code in place that will be a thing of the past,” Kihalangwa said. The PS said the building code has "the unequivocal support from the highest office in the land" and that it will be rolled out by January 20, next year. “This code is important and is anchored in the National Construction Authority. It sets certain standards that all contractors and other players in the construction sector will have to oblige to," he said. The code's development was through consultation between the county and national governments, he said.