Boat operators at the Malindi Marine National Park have resumed operations after more than one week of strike, demanding the transfer of the senior warden. The more than 160 boat operators downed their tools protesting against the management for allegedly introducing new levies and rules without consulting them. Normally, the operators deal with excursions in the marine park and reserve, tour guiding, and sunbeds hiring among other tourism activities. They claimed that the authorities under the leadership of senior warden Jane Gitau came up with rules to frustrate their efforts. A crisis meeting was convened between the boat operators and assistant director KWS Arthur Tudor where they resolved to end the strike to continue with their normal activities. Speaking after the meeting, Tudor said they found a solution to the problem. "Other issues will be resolved slowly but most important is that they have agreed to resume operations from today," he said. The KWS assistant director urged those who were planning to visit Malindi marine park for holidays to go in large numbers as boats were available and in operation. Ali Baba, a boat operator, said they have been having a good relationship with KWS, until a few days to Christmas when the authorities introduced new levies, which angered them. He said they have no issue with KWS but one individual - the senior warden- saying she was the cause of all problems. "Tomorrow we are resuming our normal duties. We have heard the opinions of Tudor and we respect our son, we respect his work," he said. Twalib Albeity, the chairman of Malindi marine park boat operators, said they had officially stopped the strike and also called on tourists to come in large numbers during the festive season. Njeru Kimani, a tourist from Nairobi, said they visited to celebrate Christmas and new year in Malindi since the other beaches in Mombasa were full. "There is no happiness at pirates many people are visiting there but as you can see here in Malindi it's peaceful," he said.