Harambee Stars tempered  Tuesday's abysmal semi-final defeat with a 2-1 victory over Tanzania to finish third in the 2019 Cecafa Senior Challenge Cup which ended in Kampala, Uganda yesterday. The Kenyan national men's football team sparked furore among  fans when they were thrashed 4-1 by unheralded Eritrea to relinquish the regional crown they won on home soil in 2017. Coach Francis Kimanzi was at pains to explain that defeat, instead holding his hand up that Stars had lost to a better-organised opponent on the day. Yesterday though, it was back to business as usual for the Kenyan team as they inflicted a second defeat on the Tanzanians having also beaten them in the first match of the tourney. Gor Mahia midfielder Kenneth Muguna put Stars ahead in the 15th minute with Bandari star Abdalla Hassan giving Kenya a two-goal cushion going into the break. The strike was Abdalla's third in the competition same as compatriot Oscar Wamalwa. Stars' backline, which had been inexplicably porous in the semis, gave away a penalty eight minutes from time which was converted by Gadiel Kamagi. To their credit, Joash Onyango and company held firm for the last 10 minutes as Kenya ended the tourney on a winning note. On Wednesday,  the Cecafa  General Assembly elected Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) President, Wallace Karia unopposed as the new President of the Cecafa on a four-year term. “I am glad that members have had confidence in me to serve the region. I promise we will work hard to see that football in the Cecafa region continues to develop,” said Karia. “One of the major challenges facing Cecafa today is the lack of commitment from some Member Associations (MAs). We have to change this attitude and commit to work in unison and build a culture of inclusivity and cohesiveness,” he said. South Sudan Football Federation  president Francis Michael Amin and Ethiopia’s FA President Esayas Jira were also unopposed as first and second vice president respectively. Eritrea’s Abraham Esayas and Rwanda FA boss Gen. Sekamana Jean Damascène are the two board members. The Assembly was attended by representatives from all Cecafa members including  Uganda, Tanzania, Kenya, Rwanda, Burundi, Ethiopia, Eritrea, Djibouti, Somalia, Sudan, South Sudan and Zanzibar.