Former Shield Cup winners Kariobangi Sharks are accusing Kakamega Homeboyz chairman Cleophas Shimanyula of deliberately delaying Lawrence Otieno Abok’s Kenya Premier League debut. The two outfits have been at loggerheads since August with each claiming they had legitimately signed the prodigy from Lugisi Secondary School and had acquired the bonafide player license from KPL. Otieno, who is christened as Olunga, was a candidate in the recently concluded examinations and joined Sharks camp at the start of the week fanning the existing rivalry between the two clubs which had subsided in the last three months. Sharks claim they signed the player on June 2 in the full glare of the parents and went ahead to procure his license to ply his trade for them. Further, the club facilitated the rookie to join the rest during the unveiling of the new players. “We signed Otieno on player development agreement on June 2 in an event graced by the parents.We applied for his card at KPL and got it but we had to wait for him to wrap up his studies. We unveiled him before the season began and he officially joined us on Monday,” said Sharks chairman Robert Maoga Shimanyula on the other hand, said he bankrolled the player for his high school education, signed and sourced his licence from KPL.The businessman pointed fingers at Sharks for player tapping and vowed to block him from donning Sharks’ shirt. In May, Shimanyula lost the bid to have Tusker and South Sudan’s forward David Majak de-registered, arrested and charged for allegedly forging his registration documents. “We paid his school fees and we have his results slip and birth certificate. We also have a card from KPL showing that the player is rightfully ours. Whatever Sharks are doing with the Otieno amounts to player tapping and we strongly condemn it,” said Shimanyula Meanwhile, KPL admitted that there was a tussle for Otieno’s services between the two clubs and Football Kenya Federation player status committee was working to unlock the stalemate. However, the league body exonerated itself from the blame of issuing a license to the two conflicting clubs. Efforts to reach FKF’s head of player status committee Doris Petra were futile. “The matter is currently being handled by FKF and the two clubs are aware of that.The licenses issued have been rendered null and void and he is yet to be officially cleared,” said a source from KPL who did not want to be mentioned for fear of reprisals.