Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula has called on area Governor  Wycliffe Wangamati to stop corruption rings operating in the county. Speaking at his Kanduyi home, Wetang’ula described corruption in Bungoma county as worrying. “I am going to have meetings with MCAS to ensure thorough and robust oversight of this  county government is done,” he said. He pointed out it was unfortunate that Wangamati and his regime were flouting procurement rules with only companies associated with him and those of his proxies benefitting from tenders. “We want a situation where every vulnerable group benefits from the county tenders. You don’t need to be a millionaire to get simple tenders like cleaning of the town,” he said The senator further  said it was unfortunate that the Bungoma county government which has a governor from his Ford Kenya party was sinking into corruption. It must stop because it was denying ordinary residents services. He said he would use the same vigour he uses to fight corruption at the  national government to ensure prudent use of resources in the county Wetang'ula pointed out that there was still unaccounted according to the auditor general's reports for Bungoma county. The senator further pointed out different issues that were subject to investigation in the county like the Kanduyi stadium and the unprocedural allocation of resources. "I cannot continue fighting corruption at the national level and allow wanton corruption in my own county that I represent,” Wetang’ula said. The senator also pointed out that some individuals within the Bungoma county government had an uncounted for imprest of over Sh100 million. He noted that it was unfortunate despite Kenyans fighting to have devolution only governors and their cronies were benefiting. “We fought to have devolution so that mama mbogas could be empowered and not improving the personal economies of governors and their cronies,” he said Bungoma Governor Wycliffe Wangamati could not be reached for comment as he did not respond to calls or reply to messages. Reached for comment Bungoma county communication of director said, “ No comment.”