Security agencies have embarked on a crackdown on people  selling  illicit brews and hard drugs in Tigania East subcounty, Meru. Addressing the public at Mikinduri market, subcounty police commander Joseph Gichangi urged residents to accord the team full support to protect the youth among other targeted groups. Gichangi asked parents, religious and community leaders to ensure the youth were kept busy with programmes likely to add value to their lives as a way of keeping them from being involved in life-threatening vices during the festive season. He said crime thrives in a community where brewing, selling and consumption of illicit and counterfeit alcoholic substances and drugs were readily available. The most vulnerable group are the youth especially those who sat for the Standard Eight and Form Four national examinations, Gichangi said. The law enforcer said the responsibility of safeguarding public security was not a preserve for security agencies. The public has a significant role to play since those involved were part of the larger community. Gichangi encouraged the public to closely interact with law enforcers within their reach and volunteer information on crime perpetrators in their midst for appropriate and timely action to be taken. The police boss cautioned parents who had already let go of  young girls after sitting the KCPE exam to make independent decisions. They shouldn't let them free on claims that they were not able to take them to the next level of education. Gichangi regretted an incident where a 15- year-old girl insisted on defending an adult man from being arrested for keeping her as his wife immediately she completed her KCPE exam. She said she was ready for marriage instead of joining Form One next year. " The man was arrested and efforts to trace the girl’s parents are under way, with the intention of charging them for negligence and subjecting the minor to being in need of care and protection," Gichangi said. Deputy County Commissioner Obed Mose called for a collective approach in the fight against all forms of social vices likely to compromise the welfare of the youth, saying if left unchecked they would adversely affect the larger community. Mose cautioned residents against subjecting girls to FGM, saying the government was committed to having those violating human and child rights apprehended and prosecuted.