The Kenya Ferry Services is set to receive Sh500 million to repair vessels and build ramps at the Mtongwe crossing from the government's supplementary budget. KFS managing director Bakari Gowa said the supplementary allocations signed by President Uhuru Kenyatta on Thursday will boost their service delivery efforts. “Now that the supplementary budget has approved what we had proposed, we look forward to repairing our ferries to provide smooth services to users,” Gowa said. The Supplementary Appropriation Bill 2019, unlocked Sh73.4 billion to fund various government services and projects till June 30, 2020. The ferry agency has been criticised for operating unseaworthy vessels. In October, it emerged that half of KFS fleet had been running operations despite being declared substandard by an international maritime body. Gowa made the revelations before Parliaments’s Public Investments Committee after the September 29 deaths of a mother and her daughter. The two were in a car that slid off the MV Harambee and plunged into the sea. Alongside MV Harambee, other vessels operated by KFS that were declared unseaworthy over a decade ago include MV Nyayo and MV Kilindini. The three ferries are over 30 years old. Only MV Jambo, which arrived into the country on August 2017, and MV Likoni and MV Kwale acquired in 2010, were found to be seaworthy. The KFS MD also said the construction of ramps at the Mtongwe ferry side will complement the ongoing pontoon repair works at the site. “But what we’ve been doing at Mtongwe should not be confused with the Sh500 million we will be getting from the supplementary allocations. Those funds had been availed previously by the government,” Gowa said. Meanwhile, MV Jambo, which can carry up to 1,350 passengers and up to 60 vehicles, is also being repaired. It is set to resume service by mid-December to boost operations during the festive season. “The hull of the vessel is being checked for repairs and it will also be painted. So will be the decks and other parts,” human resource head Thomas Tuva told reporters earlier in the week. He added, “And even when holidaymakers visit Mombasa we will be allowing them to take photos for it will be looking as good as new.” Currently, no photography is allowed at the Likoni channel or in the ferries.