A consumer lobby group has challenged the recent increase of parking fees within the central business district and Kijabe Street in Nairobi. Consumer Federation of Kenya (Cofek) says the Nairobi county’s decision to increase parking fees and other charges will adversely affect consumers seeking transport and parking services within the area. The NCC issued a public notice dated December 2 and signed by Tom Tinega, the county’s director parking services. Through lawyer Henry Kurauka, Cofek says the county purported to notify the general public that its Finance Act this year was enacted into law on September 25 and increased parking fees and charges with effect from December 4. The lobby says Tinega has no legal mandate to set timelines for commencement of the county’s Finance Act. Parking fees have been doubled from Sh 200 to Sh400 in the central business district and Kijabe Street. Cofek avers that the purported notice to increase the parking fees with effect from December 4 is unreasonable, illegal and offends the spirit of the Constitution and if new charges are implemented the rights of consumers will be greatly infringed. “The Kenyan economy has shrunk compelling the CBK to cut its projected growth rate for this year. The timing of increasing parking charges is wrong and hurriedly implemented without proper and adequate notice to the public,” says Cofek. The group wants court to issue an order preventing the county from implementing its decision through the public notice. Also sought is an order to declare that the notice dated 2 December purporting to notify the public that its finance act 2019 was enacted into law on 25 September and increasing parking fees and charges with effect from 4 December or any other date is unlawful. “The county has purported to levy less parking fees in other zones within the county. The county requires that buses will pay Sh1,000 daily which will have a ripple effect of increased bus fares to commuters who are traveling for festive holidays and preparing to pay school fees for their children and relatives,” the suit says.