Mombasa MCAs have renewed the push to ban the sale and use of muguka (Khat) in the county. The ban, which has been on the MCAs’ agenda for a year now, has always met resistance from residents among whom the stimulant has gained popularity. Assembly Health committee chairperson Kibwana Swaleh tabled the motion. A study conducted in May indicated that Miritini ward leads in the usage of the stimulant at 62.5 per cent. Mtopanga ward followed at 57.5 per cent with Tononoka's usage standing at 53.8 per cent. The prevalence of muguka use in the county is estimated at 31.4 per cent according to the report. About 67.6 per cent of the males in the county use muguka with 32.4 per cent of females confirming that they chew the herb. "More male users (33 per cent) are experiencing negative health effects than females (25.7 per cent)," the report reads. County askaris months ago demolished 100 stalls where muguka was being sold. However, the business is still thriving. Tononoka grounds was the most affected area during the demolition because it hosts the largest selling markets. Trader Joe Mramba said, "This business is our source of income and we have really lost because this is where we get our daily bread. We don't force people to buy it, so to me we have been tortured which is not fair." The ban debate seems to be a challenge even after being tabled in the House. Muguka consumption was highly recorded among young people aged between 19 and 30. Mvita constituency led with 44.2 per cent of residents using the drug. Nyali constituency is the second at 37.4 per cent usage. However, Likoni and Kisauni had records of young children aged between 11 and 18 consuming the stimulant. The drug has been blamed for increased criminal activities in the county due to idleness. It has also been blamed for broken marriages. “Our husbands are never present to fulfil our needs. If the crop problem can be dealt with, let it happen with urgency,” resident Asha Abdallah said. Muguka consumption affects users physically, mentally and socially according to the report. It showed that  70 per cent of users lack sleep, 28 per cent develop a poor appetite, 23 per cent have sexual dysfunction, 15 per cent get teeth discolouration, 45 per cent face stigma and 35 per cent find themselves discriminated against. Most users start at the age of 10. Committee vice chairperson Fatuma Kushe said they will come up with a policy to implement the ban. “We want to lead by example. We all agreed that muguka should be totally banned. We want to first come up with a policy then implement it,” Kushe said. Edited by R.Wamochie