Freedom fighters expressed anger at the little time they got during Jamuhuri Day celebrations yesterday. They said it was a disgrace given their efforts to fight for Independence of the country. Speaking at Ndumberi grounds in Kiambu, the freedom fighters led by Mau Mau War Veterans Association chairman Gitu Kahengeri said the day was meant to remember those who died or maimed for fighting for Independence. “When I was given the microphone, the master of ceremony asked me not to exceed two minutes in my speech and I do not see that as acceptable since we fought, spilled blood and were maimed for the Independence of this country. Let us not be seen as passersby and we should be given our time and be recognized as people who did this work,” Kahengeri said. Kahengeri said freedom fighters made Kenya what it is today with many learned people when they themselves acquired little education. “I want to ask, despite fighting for Independence where right now Kenyans are educated in all professions, is there nothing that can be done for us despite all what we did? ” he said. He challenged the deputy governor James Nyoro to push for a lwa recognizing freedom fighters. “There is no street , nursery or mortuary named after a freedom fighter in Kiambu county despite the hard work done by the freedom fighters. It is a disgrace,” Kahengeri said. Nyoro urged MCAs to table a motion in the assembly honouring freedom fighters. He warned there was high political temperature in Kiambu county fuelled by social media. “I want to call upon the youths using social media platforms to heighten the political temperature based on who is supporting whom in leadership to tone this down and unite to make Kiambu great,” he said. Nyoro said that despite different political affiliations, the people of Kiambu and political leaders should work together. County commissioner Wilson Wanyanga said the county security team was working with the Ministry of Education and county leadership to make sure all pupils who completed KCPE are enrolled in Form One.