The politician, the business tycoon, the Benga musician. These are just but some of the notable personalities who bade us farewell in 2019. Here is a brief look at some of the famous faces that are no longer with Kenyans as we say goodbye to 2019. KEN OKOTH The former Kibra MP was known for supporting the legalisation of bhang and had last year given notice for the introduction of a Marijuana Control Bill in the National Assembly. In 2018, Okoth was diagnosed with Stage 4 colorectal cancer. He put on a brave face as he fought the illness and assured Kenyans he would win the battle. Though he responded well, that was just the beginning of his long-term treatment. “I will be using chemotherapy tablets that I can take every morning. Because my disease was discovered at a very advanced stage; it cannot be cured. It can only be managed,” he said in an interview. He was admitted at Nairobi Hospital's ICU on July 26 where he passed on. JOYCE LABOSO The former Bomet Governor,58, died at the Nairobi Hospital on July 29 after a long battle with cancer. Laboso had been admitted at the facility's ICU since she arrived from India where she was receiving treatment. She was married in Nyanza and some of her detractors said she did not deserve to become a Rift Valley governor because she "belonged" to another region after getting married. Laboso had left the country on May 29 for the United Kingdom (Royal Madden NHS hospital) where she stayed before being transferred for further treatment in India. She had been put on full bed rest and the county office had said the number of people visiting her at Nairobi Hospital was restricted to allow her enough rest. BOB COLLYMORE The former Safaricom CEO died of Acute Myeloid Leukemia on July 1. In October 2017, Collymore went to the UK to receive treatment for Acute Myeloid Leukemia and returned in July 2018 to resume duties. His body was cremated at the Kariakor crematorium in the presence of his family, close friends and a few staff from Safaricom where he had been chief executive for 10 years. Collymore, 61, connected millions through phone calls, messages and social media but at the end, only a handful was allowed to see him off. The entire Safaricom website was branded dark grey with a big banner honouring Collymore for a while soon after his death. Collymore left behind a wife and four children. JOHN DE' MATHEW The life of celebrated Kikuyu maestro John Ng'ang'a Mwangi popularly known as John De' Mathew was tragically cut short on August 18 in a grisly car crash. His sudden death came after his car rammed into a trailer while driving his Nissan Navara pick-up near Blue Post Hotel Thika. De' Mathew had attended a fundraiser in Thika town which was in aid of his fellow Kikuyu artist Peter Kigia’s child’s medical bill. He stands as the most influential artist from Central Kenya with 375 songs and 50 albums. De' Mathews was born in Gathiru-ini village, Mukurwe-ini sub-location, Gatanga Constituency in Murang'a County over 50 years ago. AYUB OGADA Ayub, known for his 1993 hit Kothbiro, died on his sofa about 5 pm February 3, while watching TV. His widow Yvonne had gone to the kitchen after giving him some milk, when one of her daughters called saying he had stopped talking to her. BRUCE ODHIAMBO The former Youth Enterprise Development Fund Chairman died after a long battle with cardiac ailments. In 2018 October, Odhiambo went to India to replace his pacemaker that had been implanted under the skin to help manage irregular heartbeats. He returned to Kenya in November but his body developed more complications that led to his admission to hospital. He died on January 9. Odhiambo was facing charges alongside the former Youth Fund CEO Catherine Namuye. During their trial in June 2017, they lodged fresh protests over documents that were allegedly not supplied to the court to support their case. Their lawyers said certain documents that may boost their defence had not been supplied to them. CAROLINE MWATHA The vocal activist Mwatha died on February 7 from excessive bleeding caused by a possible abortion, an independent pathologist said. Details of the state of her womb revealed that the foetus was extremely dismembered while her uterus was raptured. Mwatha was a senior official at Dandora Community Social Justice Centre. She had been documenting cases of forced disappearances and police extrajudicial killings, including the cold-blooded murder of six Dandora residents in October last year. KARANJA KABAGE The prominent city lawyer and business mogul died on July 6. Reports indicated that Kabage might have suffered a heart attack while driving to his Karen home in Nairobi County. Before his demise Karanja served in various capacities in the business sector. He was a board member of the Kenya Private Sector Alliance, NSSF, Labour Advisory Board, Energy Regulatory Authority Commission among others. Kabage also served as a director at African Reinsurance Corporation and First Reinsurance Brokers Limited.