Embattled Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu's desperate attempt to access his office hit a dead end yesterday. Waititu, who was impeached on Thursday by Kiambu MCAs, had hoped an appeal he lodged challenging the terms of his bail terms in connection with a Sh586 million corruption case would be successful. But judges Daniel Musinga, Gatembu Kairu and Agnes Murgor dashed his hopes. They reaffirmed the governor is entitled to his full pay and that he has not been removed from office. The judges said they did not think the bail terms issued by a magistrate's court  were likely to paralyze the operations of the county. The decision of the Court of Appeal arises out of an application filed by Waititu after the High Court upheld the decision of a magistrate's court that barred Waititu from accessing his office after he was charged with graft. Waititu, via lawyer Tom Ojienda, opposed the bail terms, particularly one barring him from office, on grounds that it was tantamount to unlawfully removing him from office. Waititu argued that to deny him access to his office was to impairing his ability to discharge his functions and amounted to suspension from exercising his statutory roles as governor. He added that there was absolutely no law that empowered a court to occasion a vacancy in the office of a governor or suspend his statutory duties, functions and powers through the imposition of bail terms and conditions. The court of appeal yesterday said judge Ngenye Macharia who upheld the decision of magistrate Lawrence Mugambi could not be faulted for concluding that attaching conditions to grant of bail was not tantamount to removal from office. The law says the holder of a constitutional office can only be removed or suspended from office in accordance with laid down procedures and cannot be asked to vacate office following being charged. But the judges said the issue of constitutionality or otherwise of that law was not the matter before and were therefore not able to express their opinion on the same. Samburu Governor Moses Lenolkulal had also appealed after High Court judge Mumbi Ngugi upheld a decision locking him out. His appeal was also dismissed. Justice Mumbi ruled that Section 62(6) of the Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Act, apart from obscuring, helps destroy "political hygiene" contrary to the constitutional requirement of integrity in governance. She said allowing persons facing criminal charges to public offices entrenched corruption and impunity. Mumbi said a proper reading of section 62 of ACECA requires that the governor does not continue to perform the functions of his office while criminal charges against him are pending.