 Jose Mourinho hailed Dele Alli’s ‘phenomenal’ contribution as the midfielder starred in Tottenham’s third straight win under their new Portuguese boss. While Bournemouth mounted a late fightback, Alli’s two goals helped Spurs to their first back-to-back Premier League victories this season as they moved up to fifth in the table. The 23-year-old has now scored three goals in three games, including their midweek Champions League win, after scoring just three in 23 appearances before Mauricio Pochettino’s departure. “He plays in a position where he feels happy and comfortable,” Mourinho said of Alli. “We also give him space for his creativity which he always has. I think he played three phenomenal matches since I arrived.” Toby Alderweireld’s raking pass created Alli’s opener, with the England midfielder racing on to Son Heung-min’s touch to tap the ball past Cherries goalkeeper Aaron Ramsdale. Alli’s second came from the same source, as he superbly controlled Alderweireld’s pass before holding off Jack Stacey and flicking the ball over Ramsdale. When Moussa Sissoko added Spurs’ third goal with a close-range volley from Son’s exemplary cross, the hosts appeared to be en route to an emphatic win. But Bournemouth substitute Harry Wilson scored a superb free-kick and then reduced their arrears further six minutes into stoppage time. However, it proved too little too late for the Cherries, who have now conceded 16 goals on their last five visits to Tottenham, and have dropped to 12th in the league. “The disappointing thing is to concede two goals from long balls. That killed us,” said manager Eddie Howe. “We should have dealt with them better. These are not the type of goals you expect to concede coming here.” While smiles were in short supply towards the end of Mourinho’s tenure at Manchester United, the Portuguese manager has started life at Tottenham with a cheerful and airy disposition. With his proclamations of humility, celebrations with ball boys and decisions to deploy players into positions they favour, his approach has clearly had the desired effect. His new employers have so far reaped the rewards, and this was the first time Spurs have won three consecutive matches (across all competitions) since April. While this was far from a vintage performance overall, one player who appears to have benefitted under the new regime is Alli.