Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja has criticised his counterparts for presenting Governor Mike Sonko in his ongoing graft case. In an interview with KISS FM on Tuesday morning, Sakaja said the senators are the custodians of the devolution. He said the action by senators Kipchumba Murkomen (Elgeyo Marakwet) and Mutula Kilonzo Jr (Makueni) meant they were siding with corrupt people who are undermining devolution. "It is a complete conflict of interest. It is your right to have the lawyer of your choice and best legal advice but you cannot be a Senator who is supposed to defend your county and then defend a case on corruption. The Senate is mandated to protect county funds from corrupt individuals, not the other way round," Sakaja said. Murkomen and Mutula were part of Sonko's high profile defense team as he seeks to fight off Sh357 million graft claims levelled against him by the Director of Public Prosecution Noordin Haji. Sakaja added that both Murkomen and Mutula will still appear in the senate and defending the accused persons who are alleged to undermine devolution will show impartiality. "It is ruining the work of the Senate to protect counties. Senate must be impartial. What they are doing defending him is showing the side they are on which is not for the people," he said. Sakaja said that many cases of corruption have been reported before in Nairobi county and might be linked to Sonko and therefore he has no alternative but to go through the court process. "Guys in a higher position in the government need to know the days of impunity are over," he said. The senator has been at the forefront criticising the governor for "sideshows" instead of service delivery to city residents. Last month, Sakaja was among a group of nine elected legislators from the county who described the Nairobi county as ‘mortally ill with one foot in the grave’. They demand a proper audit of all the billions the county has received since Sonko took over two years ago. The others included MPs Simba Arati (Dagoretti North), John Kiarie (Dagoretti South), Timothy Wanyonyi (Westlands), Antony Oluoch (Mathare), Benjamin Mwangi (Embakasi Central), Nixon Korir (Lang'ata), Bernard Okoth (Kibra) and George Aladwa (Makadara). They cited the absence of a Deputy Governor, a non-functional executive, and wrangles in the assembly as some of the major contributors for the mess in Nairobi.