Injured Gor Mahia left back Shafik Batambuze harbours no hard feelings towards his employers after they neglected him at the eleventh hour. Batambuze had to rely on well wishers to cater for his surgery fee after picking an injury while in action against Burundi’s Aigle Noir in the preliminary round of the Caf Champions League in August. The club was expected to cater for his medication but the Ugandan player was served with shock after Gor gave him a cold shoulder, thanks to the exit of SportPesa which rendered the club sponsor-less. The dread-locked player had to dip into his own pockets and those of friends to raise money enough to enable him go under the knife almost two months after tearing his Anterior Cruciate Ligament. The overlapping left back underwent the surgery last month and yesterday  revealed he will be out for  the next four months although he expects to start light training in February. The former Tusker man said despite Gor neglecting him at the hour of need, he is not looking forward to trade his allegiance. “I understood that the club did not have money when I got injured. I am a mature player in football and I did not feel bad after they failed to cater for my medication. I am still walking with the aid of crutches but I am hoping to start light training in February then return to the pitch after four months,” he said. Batambuze opened up on his targets to aid Gor reach to the quarter finals of the Caf Champions League after the doctors gave him a clean bill of health. “I love Gor and their fans and I will be keen to don their shirt after recovery. We reached the quarter finals of the Confederations Cup last year but I hope to inspire the club to advance to the Champions League last eight next year,” he added. The former Singida United defender in the meantime showered former Gor holding midfielder Khalid Aucho with praise for proving to be a reliable friend. Aucho, who plies his trade with Egypt’s Misr El-Makkasa was part of the Gor squad that won the league in 2015 unbeaten and was named the second best midfielder the same year. “I think no one has stood with me like Aucho. He has been a true friend  and I wish him best of luck in Egypt.”      