The Assets Recovery Agency says former PS Lillian Omollo failed to prove she had businesses that could have generated the over Sh30 million the agency wants forfeited to the state. Senior state counsel Mohamed Adow says evidence presented to them shows Omollo benefited from illegitimate funds deposited directly in her bank accounts, her children's bank accounts and in the accounts of entities she fully controlled. The application for forfeiture by ARA is based on  investigations it conducted after receiving information that there were funds suspected to be proceeds of crime held at Equity Bank Community Branch and Diamond Trust Bank Limited Capital Centre and Village Market branches, Nairobi. The agency argues that from their investigations they established that the funds were from illegitimate sources and presumed to be part of the money stolen from the National Youth Service and deposited in the accounts run by Omollo and her family members. The cash transactions in the accounts were made between January 2016 and March 2018, the period the theft of funds from NYS occurred. Omollo’s co-director and husband Dick Oneko said the cash he gave his wife was his earnings from Nile International where he offered consultancy services in Southern Sudan. He told prosecutors he used to be paid in cash and never signed anywhere to confirm receipt. “He brought the said cash into the country without declaring the same at the point of entry into Kenya contrary to the Money Laundering act. However, he did not produce any shred of evidence to prove the existence of such consultancy services and who engaged him on the said consultancy,” prosecutor Adow says. Omollo had initially claimed that the source of funds was her farming business in Uyoma. But Adow says Omollo mischievously did not produce as evidence anything showing existence of the alleged businesses and no account or reasonable explanation was given why she did not produce same. “If at all she truthfully knows she has farm businesses, she has withheld crucial information and facts within her knowledge. This leads to irrefutable presumption that her allegations of existence of such farms are false,” he says. Adow says Omollo in collusion with her husband and third parties devised a complex strategy for concealing the funds as proceeds of crime. “The act of depositing cash by Omollo and third parties in tranches that are designed to evade CBK prudential guidelines was meant to conceal and disguise ownership of the said funds and make it difficult to detect the trail of funds obtained through illegitimate means. “This is a classical scheme of money laundering meant to disguise the funds which are proceeds of crime,” Adow says. Last year, the High Court froze six accounts at Equity Bank registered in the names of Lilian Muthoni Mbogo which had USD67,331.9 (Sh6,842,044.19), an account in the name of LIDI Estates Ltd which had USD28,981 (Sh2,944,953.02), another account the same bank and the same name and which had (Sh2,297,495 and another with USD8,979.83 (Sh912,500.52). Another account at Equity in Omollo’s name had Sh1.68 million, while another registered as Sahara Consultants held at Diamond Trust Bank had Sh5.65 million. Three accounts registered in her children’s names had more than Sh11 million. Documents filed in court state that the amounts were deposited between January 2016 and March 2018. Omollo was appointed PS for Public Service, Youth and Gender Affairs on December 18, 2015. It alleged Lillian made suspicious deposits totaling to Sh35 million to 10 accounts belonging to her and relatives while serving as PS. Case will be heard on January 20 next year.