Before he arrived at Tottenham Hotspur, Jose Mourinho was told by the club that his first and most important job was to get close to Harry Kane. The striker, they told him, would be the one man who would bring him success. Jose did as he was told and made contact with Kane before he arrived at White Hart Lane. However, it is another player who has brought the smiles to Jose’s lips. Son Heung-min has become Jose’s favourite player. He is a wonderful young man who not only gives 100% in every game but also gives 100% of himself whenever you meet him. He is the most popular player at Tottenham. Son has quite simply made Mourinho’s new Tottenham career much easier, more successful and less stressful than even the Portuguese manager could have hoped for. In Mourinho’s first game in charge it was Son who was the star and last weekend, when he received the ball well inside the Tottenham half, he ran almost the length of the field through the Burnley defence to score a wonder goal for his new boss. Mourinho will tell you that this will surely be the goal of the season and so will the Tottenham fans. The new manager has realised that in Son he has a golden nugget in his team. This sunny, smiling warm young man is an incredible footballer and Mourinho has now likened him to Brazil’s Ronaldo in his prime. You can’t receive better praise than that. By the way, Son told me that his idols in football are the ex-Manchester United winger Ji Sun Park and of course Cristiano Ronaldo. And typically, in his humble way, he added that he could not be compared with two such great players.  Left back still a problem for Man City Pep Guardiola recognises and admits he is in need of a strong left back. Last May, when City were parading through Manchester showing off their Premier League trophy, they reached a stage which had been erected in the centre of the city. One by one, the players were interviewed and were heard over loudspeakers. Oleksandr Zinchenko was asked how it felt to be regarded as the best left back in the Premier League. “Are you drunk?” he replied. Zinchenko does not consider himself to be a left back. He will tell you that he is an attacking midfielder and only filled in at left back when Benjamin Mendy was injured. However, despite performing excellently in the position, he is not Pep Guardiola’s answer to the left back problem. In January, the club are planning to buy an answer to the problem. As for Mendy, he is a very popular figure at City with both fans and players. However, his injury, sustained two years ago, has meant that the 25-year-old has not managed to repeat his quality when playing for Monaco in France. He has made only 22 appearances since moving for £52million. Leicester and England full back Ben Chilwell is certainly a contender for a move to City and the club have the money to spend. More pressure heaped on Ljungberg The pressure on Freddie Ljungberg has become even greater since the club revealed that failure to win a place in the Europa League could cost them another £40million in lost revenue. The club have previously revealed that not competing in the Champions League, but competing in the Europa League had already cost them £35million. Now, to add to their worries, I am hearing rumours that if things do not improve, both Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang and Alexandre Lacazette, could be looking for a way out of the Emirates. They have both said they want to win trophies and Arsenal have an awful lot of work to do before that happens. Sunday’s game at home to Manchester City will be particularly tough with both managers desperately needing to win and Freddie now has the extra worry that newly released Napoli coach Carlo Ancelotti is on the Gunners’   radar and he has said he would like a return to the Premier League. Big Andy Carroll is back at the Toon Long after his fellow players had left for home after defeating Southampton 2-1 and the lights had been dimmed at St James’ Park, Andy Carroll stood totally alone on the edge of the Newcastle pitch with a big smile on his face. And the smile was fixed as he ignored the biting north west wind. Carroll was home and both he and the fans loved it. Even more importantly, his manager Steve Bruce loved it. In the last five years Andy could have played a total of 17,100 minutes. Because of injuries he has played only 4,175 minutes. When he was transferred in 2011 by Newcastle he was flown in style out of the ground in owner Mike Ashley’s personal helicopter. In 2013 he joined West Ham who finally gave up on him after two big operations, which involved pinning his ankle and he was let go by the club for free. He phoned Steve Bruce and asked if he could come home to Newcastle and the manager agreed if he was paid on a match by match basis. Andy had to play and could not afford to get injured. Last weekend he stood tall and mighty and Southampton could not cope with his 6ft’5 in frame which caused the Saint’s manager to exclaim that he was perhaps 10ft tall! Andy was first to drive into the training ground after the weekend and said: “Honest to God, I’ve been trying to come back for years. I would have regretted it if I didn’t get to step onto the pitch in the black and white again!” Welcome back Andy… Guardiola says City not good enough I was quite astonished to hear Pep Guardiola’s defeatist words after the loss to rivals Manchester United. He claimed that his ageing team —David Silva retires at the end of the season, Claudio Bravo is 36, Fernandino is 34 and both Sergio Aguero and Nicolas Otamendi are 31. He claims that City can no longer expect to win in the Premier League and are inferior to many of the top European clubs. Is this the character of a man many consider to be the best coach in the world? Is this the man who has won the Champions League twice with Barcelona? After the weekend defeat to Manchester United, he said: “United had the quality to defend, attack and counter–attack and you have to accept that. We tried to play, we tried to arrive in the final third of the pitch but they had eight or nine players there and their physicality is strong in that position. But that’s the level we face against Liverpool, United, Barcelona, Madrid and Juventus. Those are the teams we have to face and the reality is we’re not now able to compete with them, so we have to improve, accept it and move forward. We have to look at ourselves and think about what we need to do.” The January transfer window should prove interesting as City owners look to strengthen their team. How to stop Vardy I was involved in a discussion with other journalists a couple of days ago regarding Leicester’s Jamie Vardy. The 32-year-old has electrified Premier League fans again this season with his tally of goals. I was reminded that in 2015-16, when Leicester shocked the footballing world by winning the title, it was Riyad Mahrez and Danny Drinkwater who kept up a constant supply of precision through balls for Vardy to latch onto and go for goal. Now it is the excellent James Maddison who has taken over the role and he constantly looks for Vardy, giving him the opportunity to run through a defence. So the message to all other Premier League clubs is: Stop Maddison and you will starve Vardy of the service he needs. It’s not rocket science!  Hot gossip from inside the clubs…  I’ve picked up a fair amount of gossip from the Premier League clubs this week. *When Maroune Fellaini was at Manchester United he always felt unloved. Except that is, by the manager, who at the time was Jose Mourinho. Jose likes Fellaini because he can come into a match and boss opposing teams around and make a difference late in the game. He is also worth starting if defences are thought to be weak and again the big man can make a difference. Fellaini left United and went to China where, I am told, he is very happy. However, Jose phoned him this week and asked if he would consider a move to Tottenham where he could bring a lot to the midfield attacking force supporting Kane, Son and Alli.  *Meanwhile Jose has also sent scouts to watch Edin Dzeko…remember him at Manchester City? He was a reliable goal scorer but then had to take a back seat and so left for Italy and now lives in Rome. Dzeko is 33 years-old but Mourinho thinks he would be a good cover for Harry Kane.   *With Chelsea’s transfer ban lifted for January, the Blues are watching various players and top of the list are Crystal Palace winger Wilfried Zaha and Jadon Sancho who would command a £100m fee if he leaves Bundesliga club Borussia Dortmund. Sancho is a south London boy and he is known to favour a move to Chelsea above a northern based club such as Manchester United. Roman Abramovich is making £150million available to Frank Lampard to go on a spending spree. Chelsea also have the opportunity to buy Bournemouth defender Nathan Ake for £40m as part of a buy back clause in his contract. I understand that the deal is very high on the Blue’s list but the form and fitness of Antonio Rudiger will determine if the deal happens.