Prolific forward Chris Wokila has reiterated his commitment to the Kenya Hockey Union Premier League side Greensharks and dismissed rumours of decamping from the club. The Bungoma County born striker was the top scorer in the just concluded top tier hockey league with 13 goals as Sharks finished fourth in the ten-team league. The 25-year-old joined Sharks in 2015 and has scored a combined total of 44 goals in the past three seasons. The 2017 season was his best as he raked in 18 goals, earning  himself the first senior national team call up. Wokila also represented the country in the World Hockey League 1 in Ghana. As the transfer window opens up on  December 23, pundits had tipped the 25-year-old to seek a fresh challenge, owing to his eye-catching performances but the forward has pledged his future to Greensharks. Wokila said he is part of the club's exciting project and moving away does not make sense for him at this crucial stage of his career. He said: "The reality is that Kenyan hockey is a semi-professional sport as most teams are self-sponsored. So far, I have not been approached but I wouldn't move  just because another team is doing the right thing and winning matches. My role is to appreciate everything they do right, learn from them and try to inspire my team to be better," he observed. He continued: "Greensharks is the best place for me to continue developing and it is the club in my heart. I knew the club as a 16-year-old during my first visit to Nairobi where we had a two month under 16 training camp for the Olympic qualifiers." He added: There is a pool of prospects at the club and if we can build our mental strength and push each game to the last second, we can win the league in the coming season.  The bigger objective for me is to see the team compete continentally." Wokila admits he is not a finished article yet but looks forward to honing his drag-flicking and short corner conversion skills. "I want to work on team goals during the preseason. Reflecting on how I play, instinctively, I am a finisher but with the changing dynamics of the game, setting up one or two assists will be a plus for me."