At least 400 people have been displaced and property worth million of shillings destroyed after floods marooned their houses on Sunday in Kicheko village, Syokimau,  Machakos county. Their houses have been flooded since Tuesday last week after a nearby river was blocked by unknown people. Some of the victims had their houses and other property swept away. They now seeking help from the national government and other well-wishers. Some of the household items they lost include clothes, electronics, bedding, utensils, school uniforms and food. When the Star visited the scene, the homeowners looked stranded, conversing in groups and unable to access their homes. Dina Kakwezi, a landlady, is counting losses after her plot that housed 140 households was flooded. Her belongings were also swept away. "Ever since the rains started, my house has been flooded. My family has been displaced and I hardly see my children since last week. I have also lost my documents," Kakwezi said in tears. Her sitting room, bedroom and kitchen are flooded and the furniture has been moved to a corner. "I had to take my children to my neighbour's house. My property is now destroyed and I don't have anywhere else to go," she added. "My electronics, sufurias and stove were swept away. I can't even cook for my children. I have nothing to give them." The residents have urged the government to move with speed and solve the situation. Mary Mugimi, a widower with five children, said she has lived in Kicheko for eight years but the situation has worsened this season. She said their efforts to seek help from the government have been futile. Mugimi now lives in her sister's house with her children after her house was swept away on Sunday. "My children are suffering because we have no clothes and food. My sister took us in on Sunday while we wait for help from well-wishers. We didn't manage to salvage anything from my house," she said. Ibrahim Mwangi, the village headman, however, said the situation has persisted for more than 20 years in every rainy season. Mwangi said leaders should intervene and solve the problem once and for all. The residents said they are in danger of water-borne diseases such as cholera and diarrhoea because the flood water also has sewage. Mlolongo assistant county commissioner Dennis Ongaga said they have requested help from the national government. Ongaga urged the residents to move to higher places to avoid further losses. "We are following the right channel to solve the situation and as we settle it, the residents should move to other places," he said. He added that they have collaborated with the nearby churches to accommodate the victims for a few days.