Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni has pledged $100,000 (Sh10 million) towards the construction of Deputy President William Ruto's Institute of African and Leadership Studies at the Makerere University. Museveni made the announcement on Saturday during talks with Ruto at Mubende State Lodge. Ruto want to Uganda to lay the foundation stone for the construction of the institute. He follows in the footsteps of former President Mwai Kibaki, an alumni of Makerere University, who pumped in funds towards building a presidential library at the institution. The multibillion-shilling facility was estimated to cost US$50 million (Sh5 billion). In a memo sent by vice chancellor Barnabas Wanangwe dated December 17, he invited members of the university Senate to the ceremony, which will be held at MDD Grounds. "Makerere University has been requested by the Office of the President of the Republic of Uganda to host the William Ruto Leadership Institute with laying the foundation stone scheduled for December 21, 2019 by HE the Deputy President of the Rep The William Ruto Leadership Institute's goals will include developing innovative approaches to teaching and learning about Africa as well as enhancing intellectual and cultural life. The institute will also contribute to the discussion and analysis of critical development challenges facing African societies. Last December, Ruto was confered with a PhD in plant ecology from the University of Nairobi. While receiving the degree, the DP said, "Nothing has humbled me in my life than braving the grueling demands of attaining the Doctorate Degree that has been conferred on me...” In 2015, Kibaki was the first head of state to build a presidential library at his alma mater. Of the $50 million, $40million went to the Presidential Library and $10million to the Mwai Kibaki-endowed Chair in Economics. "The HE Mwai Kibaki Presidential Library will be the first presidential library built by a former president at his alma mater. It will also be the first library in Africa to have an endowed chair in economics," the deputy Vice Chancellor for Finance and Administration, Prof Barnarbas Nawangwe, said. Makerere Chancellor George Mondo explained that the university chose Kibaki because he was the first African to graduate there with a 1st Class Honours Degree in the Arts, in 1955. He added that Kibaki was also the first African to graduate with distinction in the BSc Public Finance programme at the London School of Economics in 1958. Mondo also cited Kibaki’s decision to return and serve his alma mater from 1958 to 1960 as Assistant Lecturer in the Department of Economics and Political Science, "instead of taking up other, lucrative offers”. He said this was “commendable and worthy of recognition". The same year saw the university sign an MoU with Kenya's Mount Kenya University. The accord would stimulate communication, co-operation and exchange. The pact was to promote exchange opportunities for students, faculty and staff. According to the deal, Makerere and MKU would consider hosting various cultural educational events from each other’s country, which may enrich or expand international understanding.