Kimilili MP Didmus Barasa wants ODM to return the cap he lost during a fracas as voting went on in Kibra on November 7. He said on Saturday the cap meant a lot to him and was "confiscated for no apparent reason". Barasa demanded that the Orange party give it back within three days or he will ensure all its Bungoma offices are closed and repainted. "I've seen ODM deputy party leader Wycliffe Oparanya leave hurriedly after his speech. I wanted to send him to his ODM brigade about how terrible I feel about the loss of my most valuable trademark cap but let me send you, newsmen, to do so," he said amid laughter from the crowd. "I want Oparanya to tell whosoever has my cap to hand it back to me within three days. Failure to do so, I'll lead the closing of all ODM offices in Bungoma. If Raila wants to bring his demeaning behaviour to Mulembe people, we'll not accept. Let him know Bungoma is our bedroom." Barasa spoke in Yalusi village, Webuye West, during the burial of 89-year-old Epainito Wanyama — the father of Deputy Head of Public Service Musyambo Wanyama. In a video that had gone viral during the Kibra by-election, Dagoreti North legislator Simba Arati was heard warning Barasa that he would unleash his team on him. Seconds later, a group of youth tried to rough up Barasa as he called for calm. Barasa was in the company of Tangatanga politicians, including Mumias East MP Benjamin Washiali. They were accused of trying to bribe voters. Former Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale was also kicked out of a polling station and was captured in another video being pelted with stones as he also responded in kind. Suna East MP Junet Mohamed wore a similar cap during a thanksgiving rally in Kibra and said it was the one confiscated from Barasa. He said he would not return it. But Barasa said if ODM does not comply, he will lead youths in painting its offices red, green or blue so there are no traces of the party in Bungoma. He warned Raila and Oparanya not to set foot in Bungoma and instead stick to Kakamega and Kisumu, where, he added, the county chief has "heavily invested" in the hotel business. "My only problem with Raila started after he sacked Senator Moses Wetang'ula from his job of leader of Minority at the Senate and gave it to his fellow Luo, James Orengo, even after Weta shelved his presidential ambition to support him in the 2017 polls," Barasa said. "As a country, even as we try to embrace the BBI unification report, we should be alive to the fact that many problems facing this country — from the chaos after every election — are caused by the arrogant, violent and rude ODM brigade." Barasa said ODM and its leader Raila should not be allowed to hold Kenya hostage. He said they have no issue with the BBI report and are ready to pass it but dismissed the idea of having Kenyans decide in a plebiscite. "We need to look at the clauses that need a public policy. They must go to the PS to have them passed. For those that need new laws, let the state make and bring them to Parliament so we pass them." He cautioned that Western leaders will not support allocations for a referendum when factories in the region are collapsing and their economy left in ruins. "I've told my party leader Uhuru that if the state has money to go for a referendum, let him first revive our collapsing Nzoia and Mumias sugar factories that our people depend on before we think of that. "We should not be in a hurry to allocate money for things that don’t really assist the common mwananchi when our farmers are leading miserable lives." If Kenya must have a referendum, let it be conducted alongside the 2022 election, he added. (Edited by F'Orieny)