Butali Warriors men's hockey team will be forced to look for a new coach after tactician Dennis Owoka stepped down from his role yesterday. Owoka joined the club in 2017 and helped the sugar men to back-to-back Kenya Hockey Union Premier League titles. Owoka said he wants to continue nurturing young talent. “I am so thankful to everyone who was there to challenge me and make me stronger. For those who supported me,  I say thank you," remarked the tactician before he continued. "It's been a good three years at the helm and definitely it's taken toll on me. There are always new challenges and priorities. In the first season, we became second to Police and in the last two seasons, we won the championships. 2019 was the best season as the team fired on all cylinders and we won it unbeaten. A time comes when a break is welcome.” The former Kisumu Simba player said coaching has transformed him but tipped the sugar men to continue with their dominance. Butali have won four Premier League titles. " It is a big team with big players and will keep winning major tournaments in years to come as continuity is assured in the delicate and intricate process of signing new players." The title-winning coach is now mainly involved with Tunza Sports— a non profit making academy that nurtures sports talent in primary schools. It is an initiative rolled out by Rakel Otieno, a former international based in New York with Kisumu rural the main base and with a branch in Mombasa. Junior Premier Hockey and Big Apple Hockey Club are the USA-based partners. Owoka played for the KDF between 1998-2004 and won Africa Cup of Club Championship in the first year. He is also involved in running the affairs in the KDF Masters team. He said Butali’s recent success was due to the backing he has been given by the board. "The management is so supportive and the players' welfare is well taken care of . Butali is more than just a team. It's a family right from the CEO Sanjay Patel, team manager Kamal Sambi and captain  Kenneth Nyongesa. No one leaves this family. You can step aside or change roles but you never walk away.”  