The Building Bridges Initiative report launched two weeks ago will be subjected to a referendum, President Uhuru Kenyatta has said. Uhuru said that Kenyans are not fools and can read the report and make their own decision. The President spoke when he officially opened the Mang’u Catholic Hospital in Gatundu North on Wednesday. “You should read [the report] for yourself and then make a decision because there are very important issues touching on the lives of the common mwananchi in the report,” Uhuru told Gatundu residents. The President slammed politicians who spoke against the report before it was released. He said that those politicians have lost direction as they are the same ones conducting political meetings across the country over the report. “We recently launched the BBI report and we told Kenyans to go and read. But barely a week has ended and these know-it-alls are moving everywhere telling us what we should do with it,” he said. Leaders allied to Deputy President William Ruto recently met in Embu to strategise on their next move after National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi ruled out debating the report in Parliament. They also threatened to boycott Uhuru’s functions in the Mt Kenya region. In fact, Gatundu South MP, a fierce critic of the referendum, snubbed Uhuru’s function in the constituency. “They think am silent as if am not aware of what they are doing. But I know everything. I know those who have been talking most. When the time comes we will sit and decide what to do and the way forward,” Uhuru said. Uhuru called on politicians to end their daily political meetings and focus on working for their electorates. “I have no hatred for anyone but it reaches a point and we say enough is enough,” he said. He added, “We must ask ourselves where we went wrong. Politicians must end their political confrontations every day because there’s a lot of work that needs to be done to develop our country and for the benefit of Kenyans,” he said. Uhuru said Kenyans need to ask whether their funds are being spent well, whether they are well represented and how resources will be distributed in the country. The President called on leaders across the country to utilise public funds prudently in their respective areas for the benefit of Kenyans. “Kenyans want peace, unity and proper utilisation of public resources and not daily empty rhetoric,” he said. Uhuru said that politicians should end their succession politics saying that only God knows who will be elected president in 2022. “Kenyans want a leader who will not disrupt businesses or their day to day lives. It doesn’t matter if it will be Njuguna, Waweru, Haji, Onyango or any other name who will be voted in,” he said.