A governor was last week embarrassed by his wife in the presence of dignitaries who had converged in his private office. The county boss was streaming the event live on his Facebook page when the wife spotted a university student rumoured to be the governor’s 'side dish'. The wife who happened to be in town at the time rushed to the office and found her husband with the visitors and the student. A source who witnessed the drama intimated to Corridors that the woman stormed into the office, walked to the husband and held him by the collar before slapping him. In the midst of the commotion, the governor’s security details entered and ordered the visitors out. The governor and his wife remained locked up in the office for more than 30 minutes. Did President Uhuru Kenyatta appoint a former politician suspected of dabbling in graft as chairman of a key parastatal? Well, it is rumoured the former political broker, who landed the state job a few months ago, was being pursued over a land fraud case. Questions are now being raised whether enough background checks were done before his name was submitted to the President. To make matters worse, the man has been bragging to all and sundry about his networks within the government. Recently, at a drinking joint along Waiyaki Way, the politician told those who cared to listen that he was not going anywhere. Is a governor from Western planning to acquire a luxurious three-star hotel valued at over Sh200 million along Thika Road? Corridors of Power is aware that the governor, through a proxy firm owned by a childhood friend, is keen on taking over the facility. The process started at the end of last year but was slowed down by the heightened anti-graft crackdown. Initially, the county boss wanted to buy the hotel through his own registered firm but changed tack after the anti-graft war was scaled up. While the source of the money he is ready to part with is not clear, it is also not baffling given that several county chiefs have become overnight millionaires. A gubernatorial aspirant in a Nyanza county is marked. Why? The leader is said to be in local MCAs' bad books and some of them are said to have been beaten recently at the instigation of the hopeful. Then, there is a development initiative the aspirant, who is a sitting MP, initiated. Sources whispered to Corridors that the initiative, which involves lending money, has plunged the leader into a crisis. It is said assets belonging to some residents have been taken away after they defaulted. Some residents claim they were given the money for free and the latest move seems to have sealed the aspirant's political fate.