 Those displaced by floods have been given hopes of returning to their homes for Christmas and New Year celebrations with the rains projected to subside this week. The meteorological department on Sunday said the rains will drastically decline until January when the dry season fully sets in. The department's head Stella Aura said even the little rains that will come in the next three weeks, will be interrupted by long dry spells. At least 330,000 people have been displaced by floods since the rains began in October. Aura said the whole country will be dry by the second week of January, ending a tumultuous rainy season during which at least 150 people have been killed in flood-related incidents. “Rainfall is expected to continue into January 2020 over several parts of the country. However, the intensity is expected to reduce and there will be occasional breaks (dry spells),” Aura said in a statement. The record-breaking rainfall began in October and was driven by the unusual warming of the Indian Ocean near East Africa, which led to the dumping of huge amounts of rain inland. Aura said the rains will probably end next week in Northern Kenya counties of Mandera, Marsabit, Wajir, Isiolo, Garissa, Turkana and Samburu. There will be reduced and intermittent downpours along the Coastal strip that includes Lamu, Kilifi, Mombasa, Kwale and Tana River counties. The same will apply to Nairobi, Meru, Embu, Nyeri, Taita Taveta, Machakos, Makueni, Kitui and Kajiado counties. In Central Rift regions of Nakuru, Laikipia, and Baringo, and counties in the Rift Valley Highlands and Lake Victoria basin, rains will also cease during the first to the second week of January 2020. But the rains will likely continue into January in Narok, Bomet and Migori counties, Aura said. An analysis by the department shows the Meru station received the highest amount of rainfall at 156 per cent, of the seasonal Long Term Mean for the region. Other stations that recorded significant amounts of rainfall include Mombasa, Embu, Msabaha, Mtwapa, Marsabit, Kericho, Moyale and Malindi. “From the beginning of the season up to December 12, most parts of the country received higher than average rainfall amounts,” Aura said. Rain-triggered disasters, including flash floods and landslides, have killed about 150 people and affected nearly half a million others across the country. Homes have been flooded, crops destroyed and bridges swept away and roads cut off during an unusually severe rainy season. More than 11,000 livestock have been swept away, an undetermined acreage of farmlands submerged.  edited by p. obuya