County governments have been urged to take agricultural extension services seriously and ensure farmers get correct expert services. Kenya Plant Health Inspectorate Services chairman Robin Achoki said lack of adequate extension services is the main challenge affecting agriculture in Kenya. This, he said, may negatively affect the President’s agenda on food security. Achoki spoke at National Youth Service Tumaini Centre in Nyandarua during the Aeroponics Potato Technology Farmer’s field day on Friday. Tumaini Centre is involved in potato seed multiplication technology where seeds are produced through aeroponic technology. Achoki echoed the sentiments of Nyandarua farmers whom through their representative Justus Njogu said agricultural extension services in Nyandarua are dying a natural death. “These people have no mobility. You see a whole agricultural officer walking on foot to give services to the farmers. How many kilometres will he cover before it is dark?" Njogu asked. Njogu said the department of agriculture has vehicles and motorcycles " but the government does not provide fuel". He said every morning, both GK and Nyandarua county government fuel guzzlers cruise Ol Kalou-Nakuru Road to take various leaders to their offices and back. “Why then can’t an agricultural extension officer be provided with only Sh200 fuel which will enable him to work for a whole day?" Achoki emphasised on the need for all stakeholders to work together to ensure President Uhuru Kenyatta's Big Four agenda is achieved. He said although agriculture is devolved hence not a responsibility of the national government, there is close cooperation between the two levels of government as they complement each other. “We are always ready to work, especially with farmers, to ensure they get all required certified seeds," he said. NYS director general Matilda Sakwa hailed the cooperation with Kephis and other stakeholders including the Prisons department saying such projects will ensure farmers get enough certified seeds. Sakwa said the NYS has big farms across the country and will consider venturing into seed production of other crops including sweet potatoes, cotton, fruits among others. She said Nyandarua farmers will be given the first priority for certified seeds from the Tumaini Centre at a reasonable price. Edited by R.Wamochie