A Kiambu MCA has said they will impeach Governor Ferdinand Waititu next week, deepening the beleaguered county chief's woes. Lari Kirenga MCA Joseph Karichu said that they will intensify the lobbying of members to support the impeachment motion tabled by Ndenderu MCA Solomon Kinuthia. Kinuthia cited gross misconduct, abuse of office and the contravention of the Public Procurement Act against Waititu. The motion will be discussed and voted on next Tuesday. Karichu said that Waititu's impeachment will be an early Christmas gift to residents by the assembly. The ward rep accused Waititu of holding the county captive as he tries to clear himself of corruption and abuse of office charges he is facing. Karichu said Waititu's deputy James Nyoro cannot perform some county duties he does not have executive powers reserved for a substantive governor. He said that lawmakers are tired of waiting for Waititu to clear himself as the county lags behind in development matters. Karichu who is a member of the planning committee at the assembly warned residents against believing Waititu's claim that he is being hunted because of 2022 politics. "This county does not belong to Waititu or Nyoro or any other elected leader. It is ours. We feel bad when we cannot get some needs because he is out of office" he said. Karichu spoke at Nyambare village in his ward when he attended a medical funds drive for businessman Kamau wa Bobby who was involved in a road accident. "This is not about President Uhuru Kenyatta or his deputy William Ruto and the 2022 politics. It is about graft," the MCA said. The MCA said the only issue that can save the county is ousting the governor and discussing a way forward. Karichu said Waititu's impeachment is not about settling scores with the MCAs who have decided to impeach Nyoro. The motion seeking to impeach Nyoro for gross violation of the County Governments Act was tabled by Witeithie MCA Macharia Taki. "No matter what you are hearing today about Nyoro being impeached, that cannot go through. But Waititu's impeachment motion will sail through. He will go," he added. Waititu, his wife Susan Wangari and eight county officials are facing corruption charges over the irregular award of tenders worth Sh588 million. Magistrate Lawrence Mugambi ordered Waititu to stay out of office pending the hearing and determination the case. (edited by O. Owino)