Did only 142 police officers die in the line of duty between 2012 and 2019? The data on the number of officers killed for the last eight years released by Interior CS Fred Matiang'i this month has been disputed. The deceased officers honoured by their names being printed on a commemorative plaque are 142 officers. According to the data, the Kenya Police Service lost 75 officers while the Administration Police lost 52 officers and the Directorate of Criminal Investigation 10. The Prisons department lost five officers. The commemorative plaque was unveiled last week by Matiang'i and police IG Hillary Mutyambai at the Administration Police training college in Embakasi to immortalize the officers. However, the integrity of the data has been put to question by obvious inconsistencies that appeared to erase instead of immortalizing the memory of some of officers who perished on service. Some officers claimed that their colleagues - some being their family members and friends - were not on the list yet they perished while on duty. "Why is my brother who perished in Mathare not listed here? This list is not complete," said a policewoman. "What criteria were they using to list people in this plaque? This is very unfair," said another. Matters are not helped by the fact that in November 2012, for example, 42 police officers were killed in a military-style banditry attack in Samburu but have not been included in the roll of honour unveiled with much fanfare. The officers were hunting cattle thieves in Suguta valley in the region when they were ambushed and shot indiscriminately by heavily armed militiamen believed to have come from Turkana. Similarly, at least 21 police officers were killed in Turkana by armed men in November 2014 at Kapedo but have been not listed in the plaque. Instead, the official figures indicate only two were killed in the line of duty that year, suggesting that the data could be revising history. A senior police officer who requested not to be named because he is not allowed to speak to the press told the Star that the "list presented in that plaque was embarrassingly inaccurate" and that "it was a result of giving serious jobs to incompetent fellows." "I tried raising the issue and they [decision makers] said they would correct it. Why would you put the wrong one and correct it late?" the officer wondered. Efforts to reach police service spokesperson Charles Owino were futile as he did not answer our calls or returned our messages. The plaque showed that of the 142 officers listed, 20 of them died in Nairobi in eight years, suggesting that Nairobi is the most dangerous place to work as a regular police officer. The year 2016 appears to be the deadliest to the police service, with 34 officers dying nationally while working, 15 from the Kenya Police. On December 10 of that year the unit lost eight officers at once. 2019 has also proven deadly as the data shows 34 officers have died nationally. The data further shows 32 officers died on assignment in 2017, 15 in 2018, 11 in 2015, nine in 2013 while three perished on duty in 2012.