President Uhuru Kenyatta on Wednesday told off Mt Kenya leaders over politics surrounding the BBI report. Admitting that his was 'a bit angry', Uhuru said people think he knows nothing when he keeps quiet. Speaking in the Kikuyu dialect, Uhuru appeared to be responding to 57 MPs who met in Embu and took a position on the report on behalf of the region. He spoke in Gatundu North, Kiambu county, when he presided over the official handover ceremony of Mang’u Dispensary Outpatient Block. The facility was developed by the Japanese Embassy in Kenya. The Embu meeting was also attended by Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri, who has now twice been with the MPs before they issue statements that appear to contradict Uhuru. "They see me silent and think ‘he is just there and knows nothing’. There is nothing I do not know and when the time comes, I know those who speak and they are not those who are speaking now," the President said. He added; "Don’t allow people to keep telling you things like you are fools. You’re not foolish. And don’t allow people to make you look stupid to the point they must come and lecture you… that every time they come, it is just lecturing you on what you should do." Last week, a section of leaders from the Mt Kenya region agreed that Parliament is the way to implement the BBI proposals as opposed to a referendum. This comes after the 57 leaders held a two-day retreat in Embu to discuss the way forward on the BBI report. The legislators said any constitutional amendment in relation to the BBI report should be Parliament-led. A visibly angry Uhuru said Kenyans are interested in peace and unity and not lectures from leaders. "You are the ones who know what you will do and I know Kenyan people want peace and unity and that their money is used in a way that benefits the mwananchi. Not people lecturing us on things that are not helping us," he said. "We will come and we will talk about these things. We are getting to a point where we are saying enough is enough and we are tired." Uhuru said that before the report was released, the leaders lectured Kenyans for a month. "Now the report is out and they have taken another direction. These are people who do not know where they are headed. Your only concern is how you will live not about who the leader is," he said. "I am a bit angry but it is because every day when you wake up, it is just lectures." Uhuru said these particular leaders just engage themselves in meetings instead of bringing development to people. "And instead of them coming to build you a hospital like this one, they are just in meetings on 'Oh things are like this, things will go this way'. There is no foolish person here… No one needs to be taught…" he said. The President said the leaders can’t keep singing to Kenyans, adding that all Kenyans must read BBI for unity purposes. "I always say that my joy is to see that people have voted and have gone to their homes without being worried ...You need to vote and go home and hopefully your wife has cooked chapatis, you eat with your children and wait for the results. Don’t you want peace? Don’t you want unity?" he posed. During its launch last week  ODM party leader Raila Odinga and several leaders close to him said that the report should be taken to the people to determine its fate. Raila said any discussion on the report should be centered around a referendum. He said the only way the BBI proposals will be defended is through a referendum.