Religious leaders and activists in Lamu have raised concern over increased crime in Lamu town. The criminals are mostly drug addicts seeking to mug citizens to satisfy their addiction. Hundreds of locals and visitors have reported being robbed off their mobile phones, purses, wallets and other valuables by knife-wielding gangs. Speaking in Lamu town on Monday, Coast Interfaith Council of Clerics chair Mohamed Abdulkadir said cases of mobile phone theft were especially rampant in Langoni, Mkomani, Gadeni, Bajuri, Kashmir among other areas of the old town. “We are aware that most of these criminal acts are being conducted by drug addicts who end up selling the phones and valuables just to buy drugs,” Abdulkadir said. Lamu West Council of Imams and Preachers of Kenya chairperson Noordin Abdullahi said parents are raising a sick generation hooked to drugs. He called on the government and other agencies to intervene and help fight the menace. Abdullahi equally appealed to the National Authority for the Campaign Against Alcohol and Drug Abuse to intervene and save the Lamu youth from drugs. He urged parents to make a habit of spending time with their children so as to guide them towards the right path in their lives. “Nowadays, parents are too busy for their children. They would rather spend hours working than find out what’s happening in their children’s lives and that’s how you end up with a generation that uses drugs and parents can’t even explain how it started. That's how criminals fill in the gap and easily lure these children from the right path. Parents have an obligation to ensure their children grow up right,” he said. A few months ago, activists in Lamu town called for the return of community vigilante groups to help end increased crime, a plea that was rejected by the security office in Lamu. Haki Africa coordinator in Lamu county Yunus Issack said it was only through vigilantes that the county would effectively eradicate such crimes. The activists had observed with concern that the situation has hurt the tourism industry after many tourists reported being mugged and were hence shunning Lamu. County police commander Muchangi Kioi stated that the region had enough security officers and as such there was no need for vigilantes. Kioi said such groups had also been misused in the past and had even become a threat to security. Edited by R.Wamochie