President Uhuru Kenyatta has begun implementing some of the recommendations of the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) report. Yesterday, the Cabinet approved the change of Boxing Day - marked on December 26, to Utamaduni Day. The change is an implementation of a proposal by the BBI taskforce chaired by Garissa Senator Yusuf Haji in its report launched at Bomas of Kenya on November 27. Work is underway to implement the report. Also to be changed is Moi Day, which is normally marked on October 10. It will now be celebrated as Huduma Day. “This is in line with former President Daniel Arap Moi’s desire that the day be commemorated as a day of service and volunteerism,” the Presidential Strategic Communications Unit’s said in a statement. The changes would follow an amendment to the Public Holidays Act (Cap 109) by Parliament. “Utamaduni Day will be set aside to celebrate the country’s rich cultural diversity and heritage,” State House said after the meeting chaired by President Kenyatta yesterday. “The proposed amendments to the Public Holidays Act will take effect once approved by Parliament.” In the same vein, the Cabinet approved the implementation of a films incentive package which would see filmmakers be licensed from one point. Sector players will be treated to a one-stop-shop approach to licence approvals, tax concessions and waivers of various levies for personnel and equipment. “This is expected to encourage both local and international filmmakers to use locations in Kenya for their productions,” PSCU said. In further gains, farmers would now be allowed to grow genetically modified cotton for commercial purposes following successful completion of field trials. “The commercial farming of BT cotton is set to ensure farmers earn more from the crop through increased production,” the Cabinet said. President Kenyatta’s administration is positioning the move as a boost to the manufacturing pillar of the Big 4 Agenda. Kenya seeks to establish itself as a regional leader in textile and apparel production. The Cabinet also approved the operationalisation of the New Kenya Planters Co-operative Union (KPCU) and the Coffee Cherry Advance Revolving Fund. The team also approved the establishment of an inter-agency team to verify historic pending bills of Sh40 billion. This was with a call to all arms of government to move to speed up payment of what is owed to their suppliers and contractors that had been verified by the office of the Auditor General.