The government will from next year train specially selected police officers from within the service as cadet officers for special duties. Interior CS Fred Matiang'i said the selected team will undergo a rigorous eight-month course to prepare them for new service leadership. "Everything else in terms of transition to digital in the police service is going on well. We will hasten the pace," he said. "We have entered a critical phase in the reforms that we were directed to carry out by the President and there are critical things we need to do to enhance and speed up the modernisation of the service.” He said it will be made compulsory for future training programmes to incorporate ICT education as officers are prepared to work in a modern dynamic environment. Matiang’i spoke on Monday in Kiganjo Police College in Nyeri town during the graduation of 1,223 officers of the standardisation course. President Uhuru Kenyatta, in a speech read on his behalf by the CS, said the officers will be expected to utilise the professional expertise acquired to execute their mandate. Last year on September 13, President Kenyatta directed the realignment of the National Police Service command structure as part of police reforms. This was meant to enhance service delivery. “The standardisation course is the core of this realignment of the NPS command and is programmed to cover about 24,000 officers of the service," he said. The graduate officers were the first batch of the team to undergo the course. The President underscored the need to upgrade the human resource capacity to improve response to incidences and general operations demand. In order to meet the demand of the dynamic environment, Uhuru noted that all relevant agencies including the Interior ministry and the NPSC must move forward with all the agreed plans to modernise and transform the service. He said even as the service renews further training programmes, there is a need to listen to the public on the quality of the services offered. “I, therefore, expect that such important administrative reforms like the modern internal affairs unit and the introduction of the Digital Occurrence Book (DOB) will hasten the transformation of the service." Uhuru said his government has continuously devised better preventive and response mechanisms of fighting terrorism which is changing in nature. He urged all the security agencies and the general public to be extra vigilant and enhance partnership to counter terrorism and other social disorders. The head of state stressed on his administration's commitment to fight corruption and called on the graduands to shun the vice "that not only undermines the effectiveness of law enforcers but also erodes the public confidence in law enforcement and justice". “My administration will continue to support the war against this vice including the disciplining and bringing to justice those who fail to heed our clarion call to serve the public with integrity,” he noted. The government further plans to build capacity for strategic police human resource management and police professionalism with the view to reengineer police operation preparedness, logistical capabilities and tooling and kitting of police officers. Uhuru called on the police and the National Transport and Safety Authority to ensure safety and lawful conduct of road users to avoid accidents during the festive season. Others present were Central regional commissioner Wilfred Nyagwanga, NPSC chairman Eliud Kinuthia, Deputy Inspector General of police Edward Mbugua, Administration Police Service deputy Inspector General Noor Gabow and DCI George Kinoti. Others were Interior PS Karanja Kibicho, Nyeri Governor Mutahi Kahiga, Deputy Governor Caroline Karugu and Senator Ephraim Maina. Edited by R.Wamochie