The hard stance between senators and MPs over the amount supposed to be allocated to counties almost paralysed operations in 2019. The supremacy war between the two Houses started when the figures supposed to be shared between the National government and the county governments differed. The session held before the start of the 2019-20 financial year between representatives of the Senate and the National Assembly collapsed. The aim of the meeting was to clear the impasse surrounding the Division of Revenue Bill, 2019. In an acrimonious session, they failed to strike a deal as both the Senate and National Assembly teams maintained hard-line positions. The National Assembly backed the National Treasury allocating Sh316 billion to counties while the Senate wanted counties to be allocated Sh327 billion. On May 7, Senators voted to increase the allocation to counties by Sh25 billion, setting up a clash with the National Assembly over the legislation on sharing of revenue between two levels of government. The Council of Governors moved to court in July, accusing the Treasury and the National Assembly of holding counties hostage. Governors also accused the Treasury of ignoring the Commission of Revenue Allocation's recommendations on the sharing of revenue between the national government and devolved units. After filing the case in court, CoG chair Wycliffe Oparanya said county governments witnessed an onslaught on devolution, adding that it was being undermined by the formulation and enactment of centralist policies and laws. Oparanya said the council had sought judicial intervention to declare some of the laws unconstitutional since it weakened devolution. “In this second term, devolved governance is being attacked by denying county governments their resources. The National Treasury continues to hold counties hostage by always deviating from the Commission of Revenue Allocations recommendation by constantly denying disbursement of funds to counties,” Oparanya noted. Governors moved to court despite Deputy President William Ruto's call asking them not to file the case but rather have consultations to resolve the matter. "The Constitution of Kenya says that county governments and national governments should have consultation and cooperation. It is not a competition and about taking each other to courts. So I ask governors and members of county assembly not to go to court,” Ruto said. Chief Justice David Maraga in his July ruling asked governors to consider an alternative dispute resolution mechanism between the Senate and National Assembly to unlock the stalemate. “I believe the people involved can talk and resolve the issues before we settle down to hearing the application for an advisory opinion filed by the governors. That will save us time and allow us to move forward,” Maraga said. As the hardstand between the two Houses continued, the President said during a function in Muran'ga that the government had no more cash to give out. Uhuru told governors to first utilise what they had been allocated by the Treasury before asking for more. “All this money that they keep asking for, they should tell us where it's going to come from,” Uhuru said. He challenged senators, who have been calling for additional allocation to the devolved units, to consider having it deducted from their salaries. “It’s the only way the money will be added because the government does not have any other money.” The National Assembly appointed nine representatives to the mediation committee. They were Leader of Majority Aden Duale, Minority Leader John Mbadi, Kimani Ichung’wa, Junet Mohammed, Cecily Mbarire, Amos Kimunya, David ole Sankok, Makali Mulu and Mishi Mboko. The Senate was represented by Mohammed Mohamud , Okong’o Omogeni, Johnstone Sakaja, Ledama ole Kina, Mutula Kilonzo, Charles Kabiru, Margret Kamar, Mithika Linturi ,Makali Mulu and Rose Nyamunga. In a joint meeting held in August, both teams failed to strike an agreement to resolve the stalemate. MPs maintained that the adjustment of revenue allocation would result in additional expenditure not factored in the approved budget. The National Assembly argued that the Sh314 billion allocation was factored on a fiscal framework that cannot be changed at the mediation. “The fiscal framework had been passed. We cannot deviate from it. Furthermore, the country is already faced with a deficit of about Sh600 billion. Let us not assume we can get money from the sectors,” Duale said. The team held that they would agree to the Senate’s figure if the latter showed clearly how they intend to meet the Sh25 billion their demand would occasion. On August 29, Oparanya warned of a possible shutting of counties due to a lack of cash. However, in a meeting held in September, legislators reached a deal on the Division of Revenue Bill, 2019, bringing to an end a stalemate that had starved counties of cash for months. The MPs and senators mediating the bill agreed that Sh316.5 billion will be the share of the national revenue to county governments. They also recommended that Parliament establish a committee to investigate the Medical Equipment Scheme (MES). On September 19, the President signed into law the County Allocation of Revenue Bill, 2019 and Copyright (Amendment) Bill, 2019. The 2019 Revenue Act will provide for the equitable allocation of revenue raised nationally among the county governments for the 2019-20 financial year. The Act will also facilitate the transfer of the allocated funds from the Consolidated Fund to respective County Revenue Funds. The Copyright (Amendment) Act 2019 was aimed at addressing growing concerns about royalty rights in the country especially the collection and disbursement.