The ban on logging and timber extraction has hindered the replacement of exotic trees with indigenous ones in Karura forest. The ban covers all public and community forests. It was initially imposed on February 24, 2018, but was extended to November 24. The government then extended the ban for another year. "The moratorium imposed by the government on logging in public and community forests (and which was due to end on November 24, 2019) has been extended for a further period of 12 months," Environment CS Keriako Tobiko said. Tobiko said a multiagency team would undertake an independent mapping, verification and valuation of all mature and over mature forest plantations. The team will submit its report to the government within four months. On Tuesday, Friends of Karura Forest (FKF) chairperson Winnie Kiiru said 40 per cent of exotic trees have been replaced. "Sixty per cent have not been replaced. We cannot replace as a result of an active moratorium," she said. When the FKF started work in Karura, the indigenous tree cover was 25 per cent while the rest was degraded plantations of exotic species. Concerted efforts by the lobby and the Kenya Forest Service since 2009 have resulted in significant progress. They have returned Karura to its natural upland forest state. Nearly 20 per cent of the joint FKF-KFS goal to return Karura to its natural state has been achieved, with some 370 acres having been cleared and either replanted or naturally enriched. The aim is to reduce the dominance of exotic plantation species to return the cover to 2,471 acres to a natural state. The Karura Forest Reserve is an urban upland forest on the outskirts of Nairobi. This remarkable geographical location and natural resource are one of the largest gazetted forests that are fully within city limits. It covers an area of about 2,500 acres. The forest offers eco-friendly opportunities for Kenyans and visitors to enjoy a leafy green respite from the hustle and bustle of the city to walk, jog, or simply sit quietly and experience the serenity of nature. The Friends of Karura Forest is a community forest association comprised of volunteer Kenyan professionals and residents committed to environmental protection and sustainable use of natural resources. Kiiru said they are planting indigenous trees in the available spaces. She made her remarks on Tuesday on the sidelines of the opening of Sh46 million offices at the Karura forest. The species include Olea, Croton megalocarpus, Muthiga, Cedar, Salvadora persica, Mugumo and Dombeya. Additionally, it has a number of shrubs which have medicinal use. They include Muteta and Erythrococca bongensis (Muharangware). Kiiru said plans are in place to construct a Sh20 million bridge connecting the Karura and Sigiria blocks because of Limuru Road is too busy. “The bridge will also help colobus monkey to cross without being knocked down by cars,” she said. The chairperson said Karura is the most visited forest after Sheldrick Elephant Orphanage. Some 30,000 people visit the forest each year, she said. Members of the community forest association benefit from Sh2 million bursaries each year. In July 2017 the National Land Commission revoked 151 title deeds issued under dubious circumstances during the 1990s. Nearly 30 per cent of Karura Forest Reserve had been earmarked for housing developments. Kiiru said the hived-off areas did not have any developments.