The Jubilee administration is removing Luhya professionals from influential positions in government, Nominated MP Godfrey Osotsi has said. Osotsi said that Luhya professionals have been pushed aside from their roles in several instances and their positions handed to other communities. The lawmaker said that Luhyas have been turned into a tool to clean up collapsing institutions and then be kicked out to create room for other communities. For instance, he said, Alfred Busolo served for four years as acting Agricultural Food and Fisheries Authority managing director but was never confirmed. “They also picked Hudson Andambi as acting MD Kenya Pipeline Corporation and after streamlining its operations he was kicked out,” he said. He said that the third case was that of Susan Oyatsi who has been acting as finance director at the Judicial Service Commissioned for over four years. Osotsi said Oyatsi did interviews on November 5, but she is yet to be appointed. "We have intelligence that the commission is reluctant to appoint her even after scoring 76 points and is plotting to appoint a candidate who scored 52 points," he said at a funeral in Lugari sub-county. The legislator wondered why directors for other JSC directorates who were interviewed after Oyatsi had been appointed while no one was talking about her.  Oyatsi was interviewed on November 5. At the JSC, Paul Kimalu was interviewed on November 7 and was appointed director Planning and Organisational Performance on November 19, while Ronald Wanyama interviewed the same day was also appointed director Audit and Risk Management on November 19. Jeremiah Nthusi was reappointed for another three-year term on November 19. Osotsi said that Luhya leaders will not allow professionals from the community to be removed from the government arbitrarily. He said he will move a motion when Parliament resumes compelling the JSC to table in the house the results of the JSC interviews. He said that Prof Laban Ayiro was replaced as Moi University vice chancellor just because he was a Luhya. He said that Luhyas, like all other Kenyans, have a right to work in government. 