Joseph Irungu alias Jowie, who is charged with the murder of businesswoman Monica Kimani, has sued the state and Commissioner of Prisons for what he terms as inhuman and degrading treatment. In his application filed under a certificate of urgency, Jowie is seeking orders restraining the Commissioner of Prisons, his agents and servants from subjecting him to the inhuman treatment. He is also asking the court to order the commissioner to escort him to Kiambu police station to report an incident where he was allegedly assaulted by the prison officers. Jowie also wants to be escorted to Kiambu Hospital for medical examination and filling of the P3 form in respect to his alleged assault. In court documents, he claims that he was threatened to be killed by a Mr Lekulal "who physically assaulted him together with other officers at Kamiti maximum prison". He has been in remand at Kamiti pending his bail application hearing on February 13. “I was irregularly transferred to Manyani Maximum prison and I am being held with other inmates who have already been convicted of capital offences,” he says in court documents. He also claims in Manyani, he has been allocated to a cell infested with lice, snakes and bedbugs. He is currently on hunger strike in protest against the treatment he is subjected to and in fear of being poisoned, he says. "It is only fair and just in the wider interest of justice that the applicant reports his assault for legal action against the prison officers culpable," the application reads. Jowie adds that it will only be fair and just that he should receive protection of his rights while in custody pending his trial. In an affidavit before the court, Jowie’s father Julius Irungu Mwangi said he went to visit his son accompanied by his wife Annastacia at Kamiti Maximum prison on December 9 and after security checks, the officers informed them that Jowie could not be located. “We were not satisfied with the answer and therefore insisted to meet the duty officer who told us that Jowie had been transferred to Manyani Maximum Prison. The duty officer alleged that the transfer was just a normal procedure and that nothing wrong had happened,” Mwangi said in his affidavit. The father further claims they travelled to Manyani the same day, arrived at 4pm and were not allowed to meet him until the next day. He claims that Jowie told him in the presence of prison officers that he was threatened by Mr Lekulal who told him he would throw Jowie in a hole where he would never be found "and indeed he executed his threats by transferring him to Manyani prison". He says Mr Lekulal assaulted Jowie with no apparent reason. “The life of the applicant is in danger and therefore the court ought to protect him,” the father says. Edited by R.Wamochie