Real Madrid’s Zinedine Zidane still believes Pep Guardiola is the best in the business despite the Manchester City boss being questioned in England for the first time with his side trailing Premier League leaders Liverpool by 14 points. Zidane will come up against Guardiola for the first time as a manager when their sides meet in a blockbuster tie in the Champions League last 16 next February. “It will be special to face him, I respected him a lot as a player and I do as a coach, I think he is the best coach in the world,” Zidane told a news conference. “He has proved himself throughout his career and of course I’m looking forward to facing his team.” The two midfielders only faced each other three times on the pitch, with Zidane joining Real as a player in 2001 just as Guardiola had called time on his rich career with Barcelona. Both men have had huge success as coaches, with Guardiola winning eight league titles with Barcelona, Bayern Munich and City as well as two Champions Leagues with Barca, while Zidane has lifted Europe’s biggest prize three times as Real coach. Meanwhile, in London, Manchester City provided a timely reminder that they may still pose the greatest threat to Liverpool in the Premier League title race as they put second-placed Leicester City firmly in their place on Saturday. Eight wins and a draw in their last nine games had seen Leicester emerge as the closest pursuers of runaway leaders Liverpool but they went down 3-1 at the Etihad despite taking an early lead through Jamie Vardy. Riyad Mahrez, one of the heroes of Leicester’s incredible 2016 title season, equalised and Ilkay Gundogan’s penalty before halftime gave Pep Guardiola’s side the lead. Gabriel Jesus confirmed the champions’ superiority after the break as they moved a point behind Leicester and 11 adrift of Liverpool, who have a game in hand because of their Fifa World Club Cup campaign which ended in triumph on Saturday. The day’s action had begun at Goodison Park where Everton and Arsenal had their incoming managers in the directors’ box, with both left mulling over a dire 0-0 draw. Italian Carlo Ancelotti was named Everton’s new manager an hour before kickoff while Mikel Arteta, who has swapped being Guardiola’s number two at the Etihad to return to former club Arsenal as the boss, sat close by. Neither will have been encouraged by what they saw. Arsenal, in 11th spot, again failed to spark under interim manager Freddie Ljungberg who will make way for Arteta, having won only one of his six games in temporary charge. Everton have been revitalised and unbeaten in three league games under former striker Duncan Ferguson but remain in 15th place -- unfamiliar territory for former Milan, Real Madrid, Chelsea, Bayern Munich and Paris St Germain manager Ancelotti. “Mr Ancelotti came into the changing room after the game. He made a lovely speech. Everyone is on board and we’re all looking forward to starting work on Monday,” Ferguson said. “I still love the club, I still love the fans. I’d do anything for Everton fans, they know that.” While the rebuilding starts at those esteemed clubs, Sheffield United’s first season back in the top flight goes from strength to strength as they beat Brighton & Hove Albion 1-0 to close in on the top four. Oli McBurnie’s first-half goal saw Chris Wilder’s side move fifth on 28 points, one behind fourth-placed Chelsea who visit Tottenham Hotspur on Sunday. Wolverhampton Wanderers, another club threatening to rearrange the furniture at the top of the table, came from behind to win 2-1 at relegation-threatened Norwich City.