Residents of Tente area in Bobasi, Kisii county, are counting losses after their crops and trees were destroyed by a landslide. There were no reported fatalities but residents said they fear for their lives. John Mogaka, a resident, said he lost an entire two-acre tree farm after huge mounds of muddy soil gushed down the slope on Saturday morning. "By then I had left for Itumbe  shopping centre and taking tea when my son, Geoffrey, called to notify me of the unusual occurrence," he told the Star." I have never seen anything like this in my living memory," he said. Disaster officials were yet to reach the scene close to eight hours after the incident happened when the Star visited the site. "We may want to know from the experts if it is any safer for us to continue living here but nobody from the county or national government has visited us yet," Mogaka said. He told the Star the landslide missed his two heads of cattle by a whisker. Milka Moraa, Mogaka's neighbour, said a section of her tea farm was carried off into the ridges by the landslide. The incident, she said, was the second in the area in the last decade raising long-term safety concerns of the villagers. "About nine years ago in this same Bosingi village, we experienced a similar incident. It was, however, on a small scale and not scary like this one. We now fear for our lives," Moraa said. She said the residents were eager to get expert opinion if they can move out of the place for good. " It may rain at night and bury all of us as we sleep. I have already sent out my children to put up with my sister as we wait to hear from the government," she said. There are more than 30 households putting up in the slopes according to clan elder Geoffrey Otumbo, who called on the government to intervene. He said those affected should be relocated, if need be,  settled on safer areas. " The soil here is loose and as heavy rains persist something much worse might happen. If there is an alternative land, they should be settled there," he said. Disaster executive Walter Okibo said he has sent officials to visit the area. " We have already deployed some staff and we will act on the recommendations they may give," he told the Star on the phone.