Youthful members of Bungoma county assembly have formed a caucus called Mulmulwas movement to deal with the many issues young people in the county face. Luke Opwora (Ford Kenya nominated) who is the chairman of the Mulmuwas community based organization on Monday told the star in Bungoma town the movement cuts across all political parties. The caucus has seven MCAs and seeks to recruit more. Opwora said he and his Lwandanyi ward counterpart Tony Barasa formed the movement to address youth issues. The politician said it was sad many youths in Bungoma who are jobless are misused during elections by politicians to create violence and later dumped. He said the movement will be launched on December 27 and 28 at Bungoma Posta grounds with youths from across the county’s 45 wards "We do not want this CBO to be associated with politics since we know and believe that the many issues pressing our young people do not come from any political party but cut across," he said "We have started this caucus for youths that will see them more vibrant and rejuvenated  as the next year begins.  We will have many activities that will be showcase talents from sports, drama and many more." Opwora asked residents, leaders and businessmen to join the movement to uplift the lives of youths. Many youths, he said, had been forced to join gangs like 42 Brothers and al Shabaab because leaders have neglected them. The nominated MCA said that the organization will strive to address the many issues that have made our youths to lose hope in life Barasa said that the movement is a community based organization that seeks to empower boys and girls from Bungoma who mostly suffer from unemployment. "We believe that as youthful MCSs who have overcome all odds to become MCAs we can encourage our fellow youths and empower them to be responsible members of the community," he said. "We know that youths are the leaders of today, tomorrow and the future and we need to uplift them in all aspects." The movement comes barely two months after another named Maendeleo Mashinani Initiative was formed by another section of over 10 MCAs to empower women, elderly persons and the disabled.