Lamu county government is pushing for the return of night travel for public service vehicles on the Lamu-Mombasa highway to cater for the high number of travellers. The national government banned night travelling on the highway in July 2014 following a spate of al Shabaab attacks targeting passenger and security vehicles on the road. Public service vehicles now operate on a convoy that is normally accompanied by an armed police escort. More than five years later, Lamu government feels the ban ought to be lifted for convenience of those communing via road. Infrastructure executive Fahima Arafat, who is also acting Trade,Tourism and Culture CEC, on Tuesday said the county government is in talks with the security department to lift the ban as the number of tourists has increased. The county will this week host the Lamu Cultural Festival, which is expected to attract more than 30,000 visitors, according to the CEC. “As the Department of Transport and Infrastructure, we are in the process of engaging the security office to see if they can allow night travel back so that the thousands of people coming to Lamu can be comfortable and convenient. We want a situation where people can travel at any time they wish, without limitations,”Arafat said. There also other visitors flooding the region for the Christmas and New Year festivities. Arafat lauded the security apparatus in the region for their efforts to ensure peace and tranquillity is restored in the county. She also lauded the government in its efforts to speed up completion of the Lamu-Garsen main road, which she said has made Lamu easy to travel to by road. Meanwhile, stakeholders in the Tourism industry in Lamu have appealed to airline companies to increase the number of flights to the region during the festive season to cater for the large number of visitors. Since the Silverstone airline withdrew its flights from the region pending investigations, the stakeholders say, many tourists and visitors have cancelled their plans to travel to Lamu due to the now limited number of flights. Former Lamu Tourism Association chairperson Ghalib Alwy said many visitors wishing to travel to Lamu by air have literally been locked out owing to the small number of flights. “For instance, we are hosting the Lamu Cultural Festival starting Thursday. There are also the December festivities. Many want to come to Lamu but there are very few flights plying to Lamu and they can’t deal with the high number of travellers". "We hope these companies can double or even triple these flights,” Alwy said. 