Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji wants the court to cancel Samburu Governor Moses Lenolkulal's bail after violating terms of his release by making executive appointments on Friday. The DPP said that the governor violated bail terms issued on April 2 by the Anti-Corruption court. In a landmark ruling, Justice Mumbi Ngugi ruled that governors with graft cases should not be allowed to access their offices unless they get written permission from the EACC. Lenolkulal reshuffled his Cabinet, going against bail conditions. Through prosecution counsel Wesley Nyamache, Haji wants the court to address the matter urgently and punish the governor. On December 6, while issuing an arrest order against Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko, Haji warned Lenolkulal and his Kiambu counterpart Ferdinand Waititu against breaching their bail terms. Haji said his office will not hesitate to take action against the two if found guilty. The Senate had ruled that that the two can deliver on their roles without stepping into their offices. "The Senate's action to disregard court orders and urge Waititu to open a parallel office well aware that the High Court has pronounced itself on this question is worrying," Haji said. Lenolkulal was released on a bail term of Sh10 million from the initial Sh100 million which he successfully challenged to be reviewed. He was charged with four counts of abuse of office and conflict of interest leading to the loss of Sh84.6 million public funds. The county boss was also accused of using his company - Oryx service station - to supply petrol and diesel to the county. The court also barred him from accessing the county offices until his case is fully determined. Haji said his office will not hesitate to take action against the two if found guilty. The Senate had ruled that that the two can deliver on their roles without stepping into their offices. "The Senate's action to disregard court orders and urge Waititu to open a parallel office well aware that the High Court has pronounced itself on this question is worrying," Haji said. Lenolkulal was released on a bail term of Sh10 million from the initial Sh100 million which he successfully challenged to be reviewed. He was charged with four counts of abuse of office and conflict of interest leading to the loss of Sh84.6 million public funds. The county boss was also accused of using his company - Oryx service station - to supply petrol and diesel to the county. The court also barred him from accessing the county offices until his case is fully determined.