The Kenyan chapter of the International Commission of the Jurists has named  Supreme Court Judge Issac Lenaola its jurist of the year. ICJ-K Executive Director Abdulkadir Issa Noor said Lenaola was awarded for espousing values and ideals that have contributed to the promotion and protection of human rights, the rule of law, justice and democracy in Kenya and Africa. The 52-year-old said in his acceptance speech that the judiciary and the criminal justice system need resources to adequately play their role in the fight against graft. “I want to ask us to take the fight against corruption as a personal fight. We must give the judiciary tools to fight it as a country,” he said. Justice Lenaola dedicated the award to his wife who he described as a pillar and a rock for the last 21 years. Last year’s award was given to High Court judge George Odunga while Chief Justice David Maraga received the recognition in 2017. Lenaola, who hails from the sleepy Samburu town rose against all odds to attain outstanding academic credentials. He became the first Samburu ever to study law. He was inspired to join the profession by the impressive performance of Francis Ole Kaparo in the defence of a client during a criminal trial. The judge joined the Kenya School of Law in 1990 and was admitted to the Bar as an advocate of the High Court of Kenya in 1991. Until his appointment as Judge of the Supreme Court, Justice Lenaola was the Presiding Judge of the Constitutional and Human Rights Division at the High Court in Milimani. He rendered several illuminating and ground-breaking decisions that touched on human rights, devolution and separation of powers, among other areas of jurisprudence. His judicial pronouncements have set him apart as a transformative force. In his successive leadership roles, Lenaola has overcome adverse conditions to maintain his strong beliefs in the rule of law, democracy and justice. The apex court judge's calm demeanour, sense of justice and fairness has proven to be what the country has required during difficult moments. He has earned his place in history as a courageous, firm, bold, fearless and wise judge. The award was introduced in 1993, principally to acknowledge and honour the contributions of an exceptional Jurist in the areas of human rights, justice, rule of law and good governance. Murdered human rights lawyer Willie Kimani was posthumously named the 2016 Jurist of the Year. Previous notable winners include Paul Muite, Mumbi Ngugi, Martha Karua, former Chief Justice Willy Mutunga, Prof Yash Pal Ghai, Senator James Orengo among others.