The DCI has intensified a probe into a car theft syndicate in Nairobi. Its operations led to the arrest of the fourth suspect and the recovery of two more vehicles on Sunday. Nairobi regional police commander Philip Ndolo said they were committed to intensifying their operations to suppress crime in the city. The four men allegedly stole eight vehicles on Christmas Day. Nicholas Opiyo, Kelvin Oduor, Patrick Mburugu and Jack Odhiambo were arrested on December 26 as they allegedly sought to sell one vehicle. Opiyo, 20, Oduor, 28, and Mburugu of Kariobangi North, Baba Dogo and Ngara estates, Nairobi, respectively, were tracked to Mburugu’s rural home in Meru, where a Toyota Fielder (KCH 301R) was recovered. Yesterday, the suspects were detained by a Milimani court for seven days, pending further investigations. Investigating officer Timothy Kanake told Milimani chief magistrate Martha Mutuku that eight vehicles are suspected of being stolen and taken to neighbouring countries. “So far only three vehicles were recovered and I need 10 more days to help me alert all the border crossing points since we suspect the vehicles are being taken to the neighbouring countries,” Kanake said. The officer added that on December 29, Opiyo, Oduor and Mburugu led officers to Lucky Summer estate in Nairobi, where their accomplice, Odhiambo, was arrested and two vehicles recovered from a basement in his residential apartment. “The respondents will assist in the arrest of other accomplices and recovery of pieces of evidence,” Kanake said. The officer needed more time to conduct restoration for chassis and engine numbers, which had been defaced and trace registered owners of the recovered vehicles. “I need to get assistance from the National Transport and Safty Authority and KRA, investigate the authenticity of the number plates and do a follow up of the purported sellers,” he said. He asked the court to treat the suspects as a flight risk. Chief magistrate Mutuku granted seven days and remanded the four suspects at Pangani police station. 