Ulinzi Warriors forward James Mwangi has been re-called to the national side that starts training next week ahead of Afro-basket pre- qualifiers slated for Nairobi in January. Besides Mwangi, Arial Ortega of United States International University and Mike Makiadi of Rwandese side Patriots have also been called up. Mwangi last week led the soldiers to another national title after playing a key role in the team. He teamed up well with other national stars Victor Bosire and Eric Mutoro. “I have recalled Mwangi to the team because he is a high intensity player who will brings offensive firepower and defensive steel. He is also one of the best rebounders in both front. We need him in the side,” noted head coach Cliff Owuor. The qualifiers for the Africa Championships will be held at the Nyayo Stadium gymnasium from January 14-18 and will bring together all the regional teams. “We were scheduled to have started our training for the tournament mid this month but it has not been possible to assemble the players due to other programmes, ” said Owuor, adding: “We will now do it after the festivities.” He said they expect all players to report at Nyayo on December 27 without fail so that they can start their sessions without wasting more time. “The championships are less than a month away and so we need to start off training straight away. There is no more time to waste now and I am asking all players named in the side to be available,” he added. The Nairobi show from January 14-19 at Nyayo will feature Zone Five teams Eritrea, Kenya, Somalia, South Sudan, Tanzania. Fifteen teams automatically made it to this stage including Angola, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Cote d’Ivoire, Democratic Republic of Congo, Egypt, Guinea,  Mali, Morocco, Mozambique, Nigeria, Rwanda, Senegal, Tunisia and Uganda. Owuor, who will be assisted by Thunder tactician Collins Gaya, has retained the bulk of the team that won silver in the inaugural Afrcan show in Bamako, Mali in July. The squad - Faheem Jima (Thunder), Bush Wamukota (Tunisia), Valentine Nyakinda, Ariel Okal (KPA), Victor Bosire, Eric Mutoro, Tiberius Menya (Ulinzi), Fidel Okoth (Strathmore University) and Tylor Ongwae (Bakien Bears- Denmark). The others are: Victor Ochieng (Equity Bank),  Ronnie Gundo (Strathmore University), Robert Nyakundi (France), Brian Namake ( Uganda) and Desmond Owili (Australia). The 20 qualifiers will be divided into five groups of four. The top three teams from each group over the two legs will automatically make it to the FIBA AfroBasket 2021 to be held in Rwanda. 