2019 has been a great year for local artistes. Their music airplay shot to almost 60% after the #PlayKeMusic trend, which was started by rapper Khaligraph Jones. Well, we have seen a great change with more kids on the block coming up the music charts, but what will the Kenyan music industry scene be like come 2020? Actually a lot is going to happen, and the below are some of the predictions to expect next year. Local artistes have for a long time received peanuts from MCSK, but from next year, we expect them to get good cash. They will have to wait, though, as Kecobo’s board of directors recently deferred the licensing of CMOs to establish proper governance systems and eradicate wasteful management of royalties. Kenya’s Collective Management Organisations (CMOs) will not be licensed for 2020 to 2022 by the Kenya Copyright Board until they comply with the newly amended Copyright Act. The move affects Kenya Association of Music Producers (Kamp); Performers Rights Society of Kenya (Prisk) and the Music Copyright Society of Kenya (MCSK). Kecobo shall undertake a formal review of the register of members of the three CMOs to ensure they are legit. 2. Bongo factor diminished? Tanzania's Bongo Flavour has always dominated the airwaves, with Kenyan music being given little airplay. Wasafi WCB artistes' songs took over the local music industry and the question is, will it still dominate next year, now that several local artistes are upping their game? 3. International collabos We have seen several artistes do collabos with foreign stars. Next year we might have more collabos because most artistes have widened their horizons and want to be recognised on the world map. Alternatively, there might not be more international collabos as artistes will focus on collaborating with some of the upcoming bright minds of the industry. 4. Political factor Many will try their luck in the 2022 elections, and as from next year, those interested in the dirty game will start positioning themselves for various seats. Also, several artistes will make more money from campaigns. Jaguar is a great example of an artiste who won after running for the first time. 5. Will Gengetone survive? Gengetone songs have also ruled the airwaves for the better part of 2019, although most are controversial hits. From Sailors to Ochunglo to Ethic, most of their songs were 'rejected' by the society and others pulled from YouTube because they promote rape and violence against women. Gengetone music targets mostly 18-25 year-olds. It's a new style which is loved by many, although a section of Kenyans want Gengetone artistes to change their style and give us sensible music. They want the artistes not only to produce music that entertains but also educates, inspires and passes across powerful messages, just like King Kaka's 'Wajinga Nyinyi'.