While most teams in the Kenyan Premier League regardless of their status, make winning the title their major target, it is not so for Kariobangi Sharks if remarks by chairman Robert Maoga are anything to go by. Yesterday, the Sharks boss said his team will not bemoan being considered a 'mid-table side' as long as they continue to give the youth a chance to showcase their skills at the highest level. "We are under no pressure to win the league. What matters for us as a football club is how many young players we manage to churn out  and how many eventually go to Europe or play in the KPL," said Maoga. Maoga disclosed that the team's youth system which starts from the under-10 levels up to the under-20 show where their aspirations lie. "Our aim as Sharks is to develop talent. That explains why we are focused on the age group teams which are playing in various leagues. If eventually they manage to play in the KPL or go to Europe, we will take that as a sign of remarkable success," he explained. The Sharks chairman conceded that his side had not performed up to expectations so far but there were mitigating circumstances for their abject start to the 2019-2020 campaign. "Winning one game only is a disappointing return. But we have to understand that the coach has had to bring in new young  players into the team. We have also not been playing badly....chances have not been going our way, thanks largely due to the inexperience of our forwards," he remarked. Sharks sit just above the relegation/promotion playoff spot with 9 points, but Maoga insisted there was no need to press the panic button. "People have been speculating about the future of our technical bench but I can assure you we are not under any pressure to make changes. The team is currently on their Christmas break and we will assess everything when they return in January," he stated. Maoga's comments will be music to the ears of head coach  William Muluya whose tenure has come under sharp scrutiny amidst the persisting poor results. The chairman also confirmed that Sharks will not be delving into the mid-season transfer market to bring in experienced players to reinvigorate their flagging season.