Activist Okiya Omtatah has laid bare the behind-the-scenes events in his self-appointed public defender role. In it are threats and bribery attempts as well as efforts by parties he has sued to compromise him so he withdraws the cases. In November 2012, the 'Lwanda Magere' author was attacked by unknown persons who seriously injured his head and cost him 10 teeth. He underwent reconstructive surgery for the damaged face, an event he links to his duty of fighting for Kenyans to be governed by the rule of law. At the same time, there are instances where people have sought him to ‘execute mercenary jobs’ through the court process. But Omtatah told the Star that despite these alluring attempts, he has survived the tide by not using his cases to rent-seek. “Once I file my case, there is no reverse gear.  I take matters to the end. I don’t file a case only to withdraw it later,” Omtatah said. “Some of the people I take to court are very rich but I believe when I am true to what I am doing, the other side will respect and have faith in my actions.” The litigant holds that most cases he files are win-win since a ruling, even when it doesn’t favour his pleading, helps in clarifying the law. “These persons come and sit here and plead but I tell them that I don’t write the law. In the NCIC case, there was a lot of pressure by people who offered money for me to drop the matter. I told them to take the money to a lawyer,” he said. Omtatah says polite advice and making people understand that it is not about the money but the law has helped. “I am one fellow who believes in the power to say no. This is something that is embedded in me from my training in philosophy and theology,” he said. The activist argues that Kenya’s challenges emanate from a sheer violation of the law, adding that the country needs to acknowledge its centrality. His take is that a “society governed by the law does well, while those run by the whims of men do terribly”. “In this country today, if we obeyed the law, tell me what we can’t solve? That is why I take the law very seriously. It helps me affirm my faith,” Omtatah said. In this regard, he decried instances where junior police officers have been left to handle high-profile cases, citing fears the group can easily be bribed. Omtatah wants a situation where the higher the amounts stolen, the more senior in ranks should the officer handling the theft case be. “But you find serious cases are left to junior officers who are easy to manipulate and order around,” he said. “Using junior officers means the police don’t care. Such officers have small issues which can subject them to be compromised. There should be somebody to suffer professional embarrassment.” The public defender says the lack of capacity is the reason most crimes are being shoddily prosecuted. On corruption, he argues that some of the decisions taken by judges like Mumbi Ngugi might be the way to go but “just call corruption theft and get rid of it”. His advice to President Uhuru Kenyatta on the war on graft is that the police, Judiciary and prisons be made efficient. “If he can fix these and give them autonomy, the country will shape up. However, we will come up with the best project plans but if the rule of law is not applied, then a hospital will end up being a bungalow in somebody’s home,” he said. The activist adds, “The war on corruption without institutions is heading nowhere. Without enough judges and the government disobeying the same law and ignoring court orders, we can’t get anywhere." So it takes the President to recognise and tell Kenyans that this a country governed by the rule of law; going forward it is yourself and the law, he says. Edited by R Wamochie