Deputy President William Ruto’s glue that has enabled him to keep Mt Kenya MPs to his side despite President Uhuru Kenyatta’s onslaught continues to baffle critics and supporters alike. Ruto influence in Uhuru’s backyard is a reality that many viewed will have bearing on the 2022 presidential contests that is shaping to be between the DP and ODM leader Raila Odinga. Even though the opposition chief is yet to declare interest in the 2022 race, his close allies have indicated that he will be on the ballot. The DP seems to have convinced a significant number of elected leaders in the region to back him, not the President. It is this growing DP’s magic to galvanise Mt Kenya that is sending shockwaves across the political divide given the region’s rich vote block which will be up for grabs when Uhuru finally retires having served his full constitutional limit. Pushing the Ruto’s 2022 agenda and ignoring Uhuru’s warning of premature campaigns is group christened Tangatanga that has relentlessly stood its ground in ring-fencing the region for DP. The outfit composed of legislators who are insisting that the Deputy President should be the one taking over the mantle in 2022. The group was born largely following the March 2018 peace pact between Uhuru and former Prime Minister Raila Odinga. Most prominent and vocal members of the Tanga Tanga group from Mt Kenya region are Kimani Ichungwa (Kikuyu), Kimani Ngunjiri (Bahati), Ndindi Nyoro (Kiharu), Gachagua Rigathi (Mathira) and Alice Wahome (Kandara). To show how the Ruto’s magic is working in the area, a BBI meeting convened by State House was cancelled after the Tangatanga brigade threatened to boycott it. On Tuesday the pro-Ruto Tangatanga group scuttled a meeting called by the State House-leaning group under the guise of the Mt Kenya Foundation at Ole Sereni. Meeting invitations had been sent out to all Mt Kenya MPs by Deputy Chief Whip in the National Assembly Cecily Mbararie and Senate Deputy Chief Whip Irungu Kang'ata. Political analyst Herman Manyora, however, said there are several reasons why Tanga Tanga MPs from Mt Kenya have chosen to defy the President and stick with the Deputy President. “Helping them secure nominations could be a factor but there are many other reasons why these MPs have decided to be with Ruto all the way,” he said. Manyora said another reason would be that Tanga Tanga MPs think the Deputy President is the best person to take over from Uhuru, and genuinely believe so. “They could also be getting some material benefits when they stick with the Deputy President,” he added. He further said the MPs’ opponents might be on Uhuru’s side thereby forcing them to remain with Ruto. “When you know your opponents are with Uhuru and you are eying their seat, you would be better off be with Ruto,” he explained. Manyora said there are some who believe that by defying Uhuru, they would be kingpins in Central. “People like Moses Kuria and Ichungw'a are probably hoping they would be key political figures in Central by defying Uhuru,” he stated. However, Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu said it would be impossible for anyone to be the kingpin of Central Kenya through defying Uhuru. “Those hoping to be kingpins in Central through such means are doomed. Uhuru will not stop being a leader in Central Kenya after his term. He will only stop being the President come 2022,” he explained. Wambugu is a member of Team Kieleweke, which consists of legislators from Central region who are of the view that Mt Kenya does not owe Ruto favour. Losers in the Jubilee nominations blamed Ruto for their woes saying the Deputy President wanted Central to have MPs who would support his presidential ambition. But Ruto has been defended that if he wanted to interfere with the exercise, he would have rigged out some of his harshest critics like Nandi Hills MP Alfred Keter. Divisions in Jubilee Party hit the roof after deputy vice chairperson David Murathe resigned in January after making a series of allegations against Ruto, whom he said was unfit to succeed Uhuru. Murathe later accused Ruto of rigged his preferred candidates during the party’s nomination process prior to the 2017 General Elections.