A week after the launch of the Building Bridges Initiative report by both President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition leader Raila Odinga, a vicious power struggle has broken out among some leaders from the western part of the country on who will be the initiative’s regional coordinator — if at all that post exist. Corridors has learnt that already three factions have emerged, complete with their line-ups, to the subcounties. They're burning the midnight oil on how they will be the ones to spearhead all the BBI activities in the opposition’s bedrock. According to Corridors' moles, the leaders angling for the non-existent coordinating roles are convinced that spearheading the drive will endear them to the ODM supremo whose endorsement is crucial on who makes it back to Parliament in 2022. A popular governor has become the talk among his close handlers about how he is treating his side dishes. The county boss who is known to be having deep pockets is said to be treating all his mpango wa kandos in a uniform manner when it comes to the favours he extends to them. According to a conversation among some of the aides, almost all the side dishes have a house, car and bar from the governor. In fact, one of the aides claimed his boss is currently fishing for a furnished house for his latest catch, a fresh college student. Accountants in one of the major arms of government have gotten on the nerves of employees with their incessant demands for bribes to process their imprests. The fellows, knowing delayed imprests attract interest, are using their power to frustrate the workers who now want action against them. An affected employee whispered to Corridors that the crooked accountants have even pegged a fixed percentage of their cut for every imprest claimed. They say a lifestyle audit should be ordered the accountants whose lives changed overnight when they joined the department. A governor from Western Kenya has been ignoring calls from MPs and senators from region ever since he was grilled by the Senate over audit queries. Even to see him at his office has been impossible. An MP from his county whispered to Corridors that the governor thinks legislators from the region conspired to have him humiliated when he appeared before the Senate. He said the governor has been keeping a low profile after a 'horrible' session with senators. During grilling, senators reminded the governor that they are not children and should not be treated dismissively. They demanded proper answers from the governor and had to send him back, telling him to return with the information they wanted.