Kitui on Tuesday launched a digital livestock auction platform, a first of its kind in the country. The online app has been created by Strathmore University Ilab Africa in conjunction with the Communication Authority of Kenya and supported by Kiio Wambua Foundation. Prospective buyers will register to have an account through which they will view photos of the goats and give their personal details if interested. Senator Enoch Wambua said the app will revolutionise the way goat farmers sell their animals. "The app will allow buyers to view, select and bid to purchase goats online," he said in an address to the press at Red Cross Building, Parliament Square. The third annual Kitui Cultural Festival, as well as goat auction, is set to take place on December 14 in Nguni, Mwingi Central. Wambua said 300 goats were sold in December 2017 and another 1,000 last year. More than 1,000 goats will be on sale this year, with a reserve price of Sh7,000 for each. They have been examined by veterinarians. "The whole idea of the event is to empower our community. I come from a community that is rich in livestock husbandry. Over the years, people have grossly exploited by middlemen who buy in large numbers at a throwaway price," Wambua said. Farmers have been encouraged to take up goat keeping to boost livelihoods and incomes. They have also been urged to form cooperative societies for easy marketing. Wambua said the platform makes it easy for buyers to select and buy goats real-time from the comfort of their homes. Images of goats with their unique numbers are uploaded onto the app. Those present at the launch included CA consumer affairs assistant director Patricia Muchiri, strategy group chairman Wilson Musyoka and app developers from Ilab Africa Strathmore University George Muchiri and Samson Ndambuki. Patricia said the software integrates well with the mobile money payment platform. She urged the developers to stay focused, as the area has untapped potential. "There are talents and skills to meet the growing demand," she said. Patricia said Kitui's economy is poised to grow and the impact is set to be felt by farmers. She said such a partnership is set to nurture more innovations. The move is in line with the sustainable development goals on poverty eradication and economic empowerment. The county will put in measures to improve breeds. Wambua said an operation board will be formed along the goat belt for farmers to benefit from best practice as one way of improving the breeds. Goats bought will be transported to a central place in Nairobi for collection. The goats have their unique numbers. Buyers will bid before a prompt for payments pops up. A receipt is issued to a buyer through an email. Wambua said the platform will be closed on Thursday to allow for the processing of purchases. (Edited by F'Orieny)