A church in Karatina, Nyeri county has celebrated police officers for their service to the community. Bishop William Wachira of the Winners Chapel hosted police officers from Mathira East to a luncheon on Friday. Wachira said that the officers work under difficult circumstances but the challenges did not deter them from protecting Kenyans from criminal threats. “What could happen if traffic police officers were withdrawn from the roads for about two hours. There could be traffic gridlocks, chaos and confusion as each driver tries to reach his destination,” he said. He said during this festive season the officers would work around the clock to enable Kenyans to celebrate the holidays in a safe environment. “The officers will be working away from their families as other Kenyans celebrate the festive season. Let us appreciate their sacrifices,” the bishop said. Wachira urged Kenyans to treat law enforcers like their brothers and sisters and help them when the need arose. The church awarded certificates of appreciation to officers who had shown exemplary service to the community. Mathira East subcounty police boos James Barasa asked the locals to provide vital information to police officers that would deter crime. Barasa called for cooperation between the police and the community to ensure they marked the festivities in a safe environment. The majority of Kenyans portray law enforcers negatively despite their critical role in ensuring the safety and security of properties. Some of the officers have paid the ultimate price in the line of duty securing lives and ensuring that people do their daily businesses in a safe environment. However, not all recognise their sacrifices and often heap blame on them whenever safety is under threat. They accuse police officers of corruption, extra-judicial killings and abuse of inalienable rights among other vices. But the officers are human beings, not angels. Some have been caught conspiring with criminals to terrorise innocent Kenyans. Others discriminate against the poor in service delivery contrary to their motto: service to all. 