Good morning, Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko's criminal past returned to haunt him when he was charged with money laundering, unlawful acquisition of public property and other economic crimes yesterday. The 44-year-old flamboyant city boss appeared before anti-corruption chief magistrate Douglas Ogoti yesterday dressed in a designer shirt sequined with a gold teddy bear under a hooded camouflage jacket Here are the other stories making headlines in the Star this morning. Former Prime Minister Raila Odinga’s ODM party has picked a technical team to break down the Building Bridges Initiative report for the public. The team, made up of top lawyers, academicians and party officials, is expected to simplify the 156-page document into a language that is easily understood by ordinary Kenyans.  A group of politicians from Mt Kenya has affirmed its loyalty to President Uhuru Kenyatta amid speculations of a shift in allegiance to Deputy President William Ruto. The MPs who spoke to the Star maintained that the President was still the region's political kingpin despite a charm offensive from his second-in-command. One in two female students in institutions of higher learning is sexually harassed, according to a study by Action Aid Kenya. The ratio is one in four for male students. The Action Aid survey covered 1,015 students from among others the University of Nairobi, Kenyatta, Pioneer, Multimedia, Zetech and Daystar universities. Police in Lamu have raised alarm over increased child labour on the Lamu-Somalia border. Most of these areas are also known as terror-prone due to numerous attacks by al Shabaab militants in the past.  Kenyans living and working abroad sent home more money in October compared to September, latest data shows. This could be in early preparations for Christmas and clearance of pending school fees in the year's last term. Central Bank of Kenya latest data shows diaspora remittances for October slightly edged up 4.1 per cent to close at $224.3 million (Sh22.7 billion) compared to $214.7 million (Sh21.8 billion) in September.