A Meru county assistant chief and five Nyumba Kumi Initiative members have denied beating up a man to death. Cosmas M’arimi, 54–the Maraa assistant chief, Peter Kaburia, 51, Zaverio Atugi, 62, Zaverio Mugeria, 78, Ruginu Wairura, 49, and Geoffrey Muna, 53, denied killing Samuel M’Miriti on November 13. They were before Meru High Court judge Francis Gikonyo on Monday. The matter will be mentioned on December 23. The administrator and his co-accused allegedly killed the man after accusing him of hosting a party where those who attended took illicit brew, locally known as mugacha. State prosecutor Vincent Maina told the court that M’Miriti was killed in Maraa. Defence lawyer Henry Karauka applied for bond arguing that the accused are law-abiding citizens and were not a flight risk. “The suspects have been incarcerated for a month to allow for a psychiatric examination before they take a plea. No bail report has been filed before the court by the prosecution opposing their release,"  Kurauka argued. "The applicants need to join their family members during this festive season and pay school fees for their children and relatives.” Maina and the victim’s family lawyer, Joshua Mwiti, asked for more time to respond to the application. Justice Gikonyo directed Maina and Mwiti to file an affidavit within seven days showing compelling reasons to deny the suspects bond. Autopsy reports conducted at Consolata Mission Hospital indicated that M’Miriti’s death resulted from asphyxia secondary to chest and neck compression. Asphyxia is a condition arising when the body is deprived of oxygen, causing unconsciousness or death by suffocation. Preliminary investigations indicate that on the incident’s day at 8.30pm, the administrator while on patrol with his team went to the home of M’Miriti, where they found him with his wife and daughter. The assistant chief ordered him to get out of his house because they had gone to arrest him on claims he hosted a party in his house and bought illicit brew for his guests. It is claimed that the ceremony was organised by the deceased’s daughter to thank motorcyclists who had assisted her to recover her stolen motorbike in Tigania. The suspects allegedly left with the man to 'interview him' about the brew but after one hour, he was found by a Good Samaritan, Bernard Mbii, – too weak to walk by himself. Farmer Samuel Marangu agreed to assist Mbii to take him (M’Miriti) home, but metres from the scene, he started vomiting before he fell to the ground unconscious. Mbii tried to pull him to his feet, but he collapsed. Foam was oozing from his mouth and nose. He was pronounced dead on arrival at Mitunguu Hospital.