 Small-scale tea farmers in Nyamira have petitioned the National Assembly demanding an amendment to the Tea Act so they get 75 per cent of bonus earnings. The about 400 farmers say the current structure of the act allows exploitation by the Kenya Tea Development Authority. They want the Tea Act 2000 amended so the national government can intervene by ensuring farmers earn better bonuses. The petition to Speaker Justin Muturi was signed by Devonshire Otwori, Charles Nyageikaro, Victor Orina, Nathan Nyariki and Herbert Nyang’oki. The farmers said the liberalisation of the tea sector in 2000 has led to the high cost of fertiliser and caused a drop in bonuses. They said farmers were demoralised the by decreasing bonus earnings every year. Farmers in the region earned as low as Sh11 for a kilo of tea in bonus, the lowest in decades. many have uprooted the crop to diversify. They claimed KTDA directors draft policies to serve selfish interests with subsidiary companies at the expense of farmers. The petition was copied to Deputy President William Ruto, Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri. “We have been suffering for many years that is why we want the Tea Act of 2000 amended to eliminate the current structure which is exploitative to farmers,” the petition says. They want the government to regulate KTDA and weed out middlemen that have been blamed for farmers' woes. The farmers also want the government to appoint external auditors to scrutinise the accounts of KTDA and impose hefty penalties on those found to have disregarded laws and regulations. The petitioners want the number of directors reduced by half and elective zones merged in every tea factory. Senior managers should serve only three years with their contracts non-renewable. “The election of tea factory directors under the current three years by rotation should be abolished since the system has been abused and has enabled some directors to cling to power for too long by intimidating opponents,” the petition says. The farmers want an amendment so the election of factory directors is done on the basis of one man unlike in the current system where voting is done based on the number of shares one holds. 