 Civil society groups have asked police to stop "excessive screening" of residents "under the guise of fighting terror." Civil Society Reference Group on Thursday said they had received several complaints from residents about police harassment in the name of screening. The group's convener Suba Churchill said police ought to screen people but they were overdoing it. There has been intensified screening of passengers along the Garissa-Nairobi road with military officers joining police in conducting the searches. Passengers are often asked to alight with their luggage before a thorough search is done. Churchil said even though the intention of  security screening was good for the country, most of the times those carrying out the exercise end up intimidating Kenyans and ‘making them fear for the unknown’. “We have on numerous occasions received complaints from locals who accuse police of harassing them. A case in point is where you will find one has a waiting card, but the officers will hear none of it. They end up locking such a person for hours before he/she is released after bribing them,” Churchill said. “In another instance, you find an officer asking a five-year-old for a school card forgetting that not all schools issue those documents. If this is not intimidation, what is it? The government is there to protect its citizens and the people need not to fear their own government." The activists submitted a petition to county commissioner Meru Mwangi for onward transmission to Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i for action. Chruchill spoke after a workshop that brought together local NGOs, CBOs and youth. It was meant to create awareness and advocate for the commencement of the Public Benefit Organisation Act. The law that is designed to repeal the NGO Coordination Act and promises to create a much more enabling environment for the non-profit organisations. “We hope that once the CS gets the petition, he will act and gazette a commencement date for that law. That law has a lot of promise for the sector and we hope he will take heed and do the needful so that the civil society can partner with national and county governments," he said.  edited by peter obuya