A Siaya-based Nation journalist Dickens Wasonga has reported threats on his life over the Star writer Erick Oloo murder story. Wasonga was allegedly threatened by a police chief inspector Sabina Kerubo on Wednesday on the phone for highlighting Oloo's story. "She called me twice on phone and threatened me. I have reported the matter to Bondo Police Station," he said. The incident has been reported via Occurrence Book OB28/25/12/2019 on Wednesday. "Ngojea yako (wait for yours), death you useless dog. You penned trash against me. Wait for your turn," Wasonga told the police. "You did a story that gave a wrong perception to the public. Let me tell you whatever you did for me you will pay, Kerubo told me on phone," the police report reads. When he questioned her what will happen to him, Kerubo allegedly replied that "death like it happened to Oloo". On the phone, Kerubo who is a state witness claimed that Oloo killed himself by banging his head on the wall. "She alleged that the husband committed suicide distancing herself from the assertion by the prosecution she's supposed to build their case,"Wasonga said, "How did she know Oloo bang his head on the wall while she maintained that she was too drunk to know what happened the night Oloo was killed?" he posed. Oloo was found murdered in Kerubo's house in Ugunja town, Siaya county last month. He died of blunt force trauma and cuts to the head. Oloo and Kerubo had been cohabiting for about a year. Kisumu Journalists Network Chairman Rushdie Oudia has condemned the incident and called for a speedy investigation. He told DCI boss George Kinoti and IG Hillary Mutyambai to personally take the lead on the investigations on threats against Wasonga. "We cannot continue to loose more journalists in the hands of rogue officers. Action must be taken immediately," Oudia said. Kerubo was arrested as a prime suspect in the murder of Oloo and detained for 14 days pending completion of investigations. Two brothers have been charged with the murder of journalist Oloo. The suspects denied the charges before the High Court in Siaya. Appearing before Judge Roseline Aburili, Joel Franklin Luta alias Daddy and Victor Ogola Luta were charged with killing the Siaya-based journalist on November 21 in Nyabeda village, Ugunja. They both pleaded not guilty. Judge Aburili ordered that the two be remanded at the Siaya G.K Prison until January 20 when the case will be mentioned.S he also directed the county probation officer to do a bail assessment for the two suspects and avail the findings in court within 21 days after plea taking.