More than 7,000 settlers on the East Africa Portland Cement Company land in Athi River have asked the government to give them the land for free or sell it to them. The squatters have requested the government not to demolish their houses to pave way for the construction of the affordable housing project at Lukenya. The squatters said they were authorised to remain on the 2,000-acre piece of land by the National Land Commission and they should not be evicted. The squatters' chairman Pius Musembi said they have used a lot of resources and will incur millions of losses if the demolitions and eviction are implemented. Musembi said they had organised a community group fund to build affordable houses to their members. They have built 700 decent permanent houses. The squatters under the Syokimau Mavoko Community group say EAPCC promised to sell the land to them in 2010 but rescinded the decision two years later. The squatters applied for subdivision and development of the land in the hope of purchasing it. According to the squatters, selfish tycoons with intentions to grab the land have politicised the matter. A report released by a task-force formed in March 2018 on the state of ownership of land in Mavoko showed that EAPCC has been selling portions of the land to individuals and private entities for residential development. “EAPCC had exhausted mining activities on some of their parcels and sold part of the parcels instead of surrendering the land back to the allocating authority,” the report reads. The task force led by Paul Mwangi recommended that the EAPCC should not dispose of the land once the purpose intended by the lease is exhausted. It also recommended that the county and the national governments should investigate the land buying companies, groups and individuals selling off the land. The report revealed that the EAPCC had stopped mining operations on the land on because of the invasion. However, the report also said that the invaders claimed that they were in occupation of the land because the company had exhausted its mining venture. Several court cases have been filed with regards to the Mavoko land with cases of double allocation, fake title deeds, illegal subdivisions, invasions and proliferation of land among others. The report proposed for the involved parties to consider the settlement of disputes out of court. “A multi-agency team should be formed to profile the squatters and all those who have settled on the EAPCC land for appropriate action,” the report reads. 