The Bungoma government has distributed Sh114 million cheques to 360 Community Investment Groups in five subcounties to fund agricultural activities. Beneficiaries are from Bumula, Sirisia, Mt Elgon, Webuye East, Kimilili. The funding seeks to boost production of dairy, poultry products as well as bananas and beans. This is the second phase of a project in which Bungoma Governor Wycliffe Wangamati will give Sh500 million to 573 organised farmer groups across the county this financial year. In the first phase in July, Wangamati gave out Sh11 million cheques to 40 Community Investment Groups from Bumula, Sirisia, Mt Elgon, Webuye East and Kimilili.  “We will build roads, schools and hospitals, but this is the only programme that will directly put money in the pockets of the people of Bungoma,” Wangamati said in Mwomu, Bumula subcounty. He said the programme would support up to 20,000 people in the implementing wards. The initiative is part of the National Agricultural and Rural Inclusive Growth Project (NARIGP). The Sh22.5 billion World Bank-funded initiative is being rolled out in 21 counties. The primary beneficiaries are rural smallholder farmers and vulnerable marginalised groups. The grants to the beneficiary groups range from Sh250,000 to Sh500,000. The criteria for the selection of the beneficiaries were pegged on the wards’ potential to develop and improve the production of at least one of the value chains in dairy production, banana, indigenous poultry keeping and beans. The project will support the community through four investment windows. They include sustainable land management and value chains, market-oriented livelihood interventions, vulnerable marginalised groups and nutrition. Beneficiary Kelvin Wasike from Webuye East constituency said the move would help them stop overlying on ailing sugar cane farming. “Our Nzoia Sugar Company is almost dead. We thank Wangamati for this initiative that will help us raise school fees for our children,” he said Wasike urged the country boss to ensure the stalled Chwele chicken slaughterhouse is up and running. The project will support the community through four investment windows. They include sustainable land management and value chains, market-oriented livelihood interventions, vulnerable marginalised groups and nutrition. Beneficiary Kelvin Wasike from Webuye East constituency said the move would help them stop overlying on ailing sugar cane farming. "Our Nzoia Sugar Company is almost dead. We thank Wangamati for this initiative that will help us raise school fees for our children," he said Wasike urged the country boss to ensure the stalled Chwele chicken slaughterhouse is up and running. 