Murders, especially gruesome ones, increased in the North Rift in 2019 and most victims were young women. Domestic violence and love gone sour are blamed in most cases, some of them shocked the country and led to heated debate on the causes and solutions. On April 9 medical student at Moi University Ivy Wangechi was hacked to death by a would-be lover because she reportedly spurned his advances. The suspect, Naftali Kinuthia Mbugua, drove all the way from Nairobi armed with an axe and a panga. He allegedly hacked Ivy to death in broad daylight on a road outside the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital. Police said the suspect told them that Ivy "refused to love him". Mbugua, who worked for a betting firm in Nairobi, has appealed for a plea bargain in which he would plead guilty to a lesser charge such as manslaughter. The case will be mentioned in May. On October 6, police in Eldoret also arrested a 26-year-old woman who allegedly stabbed her husband to death and was found carrying the body in a sack, apparently on the way to dispose of it. Eldoret West OCPD Zachary Bitok said the woman identified as  Melissa Muhindi was found carrying the body of Geoffrey Matsheshe on a motorcycle in Kamkunji Estate after the killing. Bitok said the victim was a newspaper vendor in the town. Melisa and another suspect are facing murder charges. At Moi’s Bridge a women was murdered in her home and some of her body parts were removed. The killing occurred along the border between Trans Nzoia and Uasin Gishu counties. Police suspected that the bizarre killing was carried out by a man suspected to have been her lover. Nairobi businessman Joshua Ogach was charged over the murder of policewoman Robinah Moraa in Eldoret in August Its  alleged that the police officer was stabbed to death at her home inJamboni Estate along the Eldoret Nairobi road. She was attached to the Naiberi police station in Eldoret. Police said a love affair gone sour was probably the cause. In February a 37-year-old Eldoret man David Siloba Achala  was arraigned before the High Court Eldoret for allegedly killing his girlfriend and burning the body His girlfriend, Fiona Kisuya was killed at their house in Kapsoya Estate. Police in Eldoret also arrested an athlete linked the murder of a female teacher at Ngeria Secondary school in Uasin Gishu county. The woman's body was dumped in a maize farm a few kilometers from the school. The athlete was said to have been her lover. Kapseret police boss Francis Warui said the teacher, 27-year-old Gloria Sangutei, had gone missing. Her body was found on August 7. Human Rights crusader Nick Omito says hundreds of cases of violence, mostly against women, were recorded by rights organisations. (Edited by V. Graham)