The construction of a 540-kilometre road connecting Kiambu,  Murang’a and Nyeri counties will start in January, Transport CS James Macharia has said. Macharia has said the road christened ‘Mau Mau’ road will cost Sh30 billion and will start from Limuru in Kiambu and end in Nyeri county. In Limuru, construction will start at Gataka then go through Kamahindu and Kibichoi in Kiambu before passing through Kinyona in Kigumo and Ichichi in Kangema. It will then traverse through Nyeri county and end at Ihuru area. The CS said four contractors have been identified to work on the road simultaneously and ensure it is completed as soon as possible. He said the road is being done to honour Mau Mau fighters who used the route as they went in and out of the forest to fight colonialists. “Some of the fighters paid the ultimate price. They went into the mountains to fight and never came back. That is why the President said he would do the road and many people thought it was just a promise,” Macharia said. He noted that the President will personally commission the construction of the road next month. Macharia spoke on Friday in Murang'a county while on a tour of the road project. The contractors will be required to use local labour to ensure the money has an impact on the local economies, he said. Once completed, Macharia said, the road will boost the economy of the region which produces tea, coffee and other crops. The CS said the road itself will be 462 kilometres but artery roads joining it will also be constructed to make it a lot more productive. In addition, the government will start the construction of a road that will connect Murang’a county to the Rift Valley. The road will stretch from Gatura in Gatanga and Kinyona in Kigumo to Kiambirui and Njabini in Nyandarua county and end in Naivasha. It will encourage intra-trading between counties from both sides of the Aberdare ranges and further boost the economy. The construction will also start in January, Macharia said. The government is also linking the Northern Corridor from Nairobi through Thika to Makutano in Kirinyaga and Marua in Nyeri. The dual carriageway set to begin at Kenol in Murang’a will then be extended to Nanyuki and Isiolo road known as the Lapsset Corridor. “By so doing, we will connect the Lapsset Corridor to the Northern Corridor which will bring more development to the county,” the CS said. About 10 counties will benefit from Nairobi to Isiolo. “We are committing a lot of resources because this is the foundation of development for the country as it is not only positively affecting the agricultural areas but also encouraging trading between counties,” he said. Macharia pointed out that the government is not taking chances with the projects and will not give tenders to complacent contractors. He noted that the government has already blacklisted 15 contractors who have not been completing construction works as prescribed by their tenders. He said the ministry has alphabetically gone through the catalogue of all contracts given across the country from Baringo to West Pokot and has weeded out contractors found to be complacent. He said the government has a shortage of funds for the implementation of the roads programme, noting that some contractors flee after receiving the 10 per cent advance payment, leaving Kenyans suffering. “Those 15 contractors will never get work from the government as long as we are in office because we are doing this work for the sake of Kenyans,” the CS added. 