Rice production in the country is poised to double in the next two years following the launch of a new fertiliser variety. The Kynoch fertiliser is crop-specific and seeks to increase yields and transform the sector that has suffered from low production. “This variety is also soil specific. This means different areas would have distinct types of blend of fertilisers that fit their needs,” said Edwin Nyabiba, the Commercial Manager of Exporting Trade Group, the multinational behind the input. Nyabiba spoke on Tuesday in Mwea, Kirinyaga county, where he held sessions with rice farmers on fertiliser application. He said the drive behind the new fertiliser was to get farmers out of low production zones and empower them economically. “Besides the expanded yields, Kynoch-applied rice crops have strong stems, which cushion them from weather vagaries and unexpected floods,” he explained. Nyabiba said traditional fertilisers such as DAP and CAN, can help produce an average of between 20 and 25 bags compared to Kynoch’s 45 to 50 bags. “KynoNafaka, which is a planting fertiliser, for instance, is coated with Avail, a technology that reduces fixation of applied Phosphorus making it more available to plants even in low pH,” he added. “Production in an acre has increased to 45 bags and the amount of Kynoch fertilisers used are a bit low compared to the variety that we were used to in the past,” rice farmer in Mwea Irene Njeri said. William Ngeno, an agronomist at Yara East Africa Kenya, noted the importance of using fertilisers that offer balanced nutrition, to enhance soil health and complement good seed. He said good soil health helps the roots in absorption of the desired nutrients from the fertilisers that are used in food production. “Good fertiliser with the needed nutrients provides for good yields and profit for the farmer. Today we celebrate the success we have seen since the launch of good seeding and processing of rice in June this year, which has seen farmer yields increase by 27 per cent,” Ngeno said. Jane Ndungu, head of Rice Production at the Crop Directorate in the Agriculture ministry said 70 per cent of rice is grown in Mwea and rice farming is practiced in 23 counties but can be grown in many more. “We are implementing strategies to have water rice saving technologies that will see production increase from 17 per cent. It is expected that the basmati rice production will increase employment to have 40 value chains as part of the Big Four agenda,” she explained. 