  The Makueni county government has established three rescue centers for families affected by landslides that have already killed three people. A nine-year-old girl was among the victims of the deadly landslides that ravaged  Nditikwa, Kyatuku and Katulye villages in Kilungu subcounty. At least 150 families have been displaced. They are camping in primary schools. The centers were put up at Tusunini, Katulye and St Teresa primary schools in Kaiti constituency. Deputy Governor Adelina Mwau said the centers will enable the county and well-wishers to offer humanitarian support. “The county government of Makueni is working with other agencies like Red Cross and leaders to ensure the displaced persons get food and clothing and we are appealing to others at risks of landslides to move to safer grounds to avoid losing more lives,” Mwau said. She spoke when she visited affected families. At Tusunini Primary School on Tuesday, victims Josephine Nzuki and her husband Erick were yet to come to terms with the loss of their daughter who was killed in Kyatuku village at the weekend. Nzuki said they tried to rescue the Standard 2 girl but the door to their bedroom could not open the landslide. “I heard her younger brother shouting "mum we have been hit". We rushed to rescue the minors but the door could not open,” a sobbing Nzuki told the Star. When they broke the door with an axe, the girl had already died. He said she was fully covered with muddy soil. Not far from the family was Paninah Mueke who lost her 24–year-old son, John Kioko. The 74-year old mother of nine could not control her emotions as she narrated her last moments with her fifth-born child. “His death was so soon and unexpected. This is the worst news in my life because of the love I had for my son,” Mueke said. The victims asked the government to help them reconstruct their houses. Kaiti MP Joshua Kimilu visited all the three centers and distributed relief food and clothing to the families. He said his office would assist in the burial arrangements for those who died. “I appeal to other leaders, churches and well-wishers to assist us and those in other areas facing similar problems," Kimilu said.  edited by peter obuya