Police officers should not stay in one police station too long as they become cosy with criminals and jeopardise access to justice, Kilifi residents say. They addressed a county stakeholders’ forum on Criminal Justice Accountability in Kilifi on Wednesday. They particularly cited the problem of police officers overstaying in one post. The forum was organised by the office of the Director of Public Prosecutions and Haki Africa. The Kilifi Citizen’s Forum's Harold Mwatua said many police officers have been in the same station for more than five years. “This is a great concern because these officers have become part of the community and are failing in the duty to maintain law and order. They have interacted and have created a strong relationship with all the big criminals in their area, making it difficult to end crime,” Mwatua said. He said many regions with serious crimes and lack of justice have a history of police overstaying in their stations. The residents also cited police harassment, brutality, drunken officers and extrajudicial killings as other setbacks to criminal justice. Haki Africa legal officer Rosette Ochoo said the Criminal Justice Accountability Project was started in February. “It aims at bringing together all state and justice actors in the criminal justice system. There is a disconnect between them and the public,” she said. A major public inquiry will be conducted next year in January, she said. “The community should know that justice can be attained. All we need is to sit around a table and discuss, and act,"  she added. Rose Kipyego from the Nairobi ODDP said the public should speak out about any injustice. “Police officers are aware that any case should be well investigated and the file handed over to the ODPP for prosecution. No justice should be denied,” she said. Kipyego said the office of the DPP will conduct public awareness sessions on new policies of plea bargaining and diversions where petty cases can be settled out of court. This move is largely aimed at decongesting prisons. However, she said, murder and defilement cases will never be settled out of court. Edited by R.Wamochie