Good morning, On Thursday President Uhuru Kenyatta promised a Conflict of Interest Bill 2019. Uhuru was irritated that Mutula Kilonzo, Kipchumba Murkomen and Dan Maanzo have been defending Governor Mike Sonko in court. They are lawyers but also senators overseeing county governments. Here are the other stories making headlines in the Star this morning. A suspect shocked a female magistrate after he touched his manhood for at least two minutes while standing in the dock. It was not immediately established what pushed the suspect to do so but the magistrate decided he shouldn't continue doing that in her courtroom. During Jamhuri Day celebrations in 2017, President Uhuru Kenyatta rolled out an accelerated five-year development plan christened the Big Four agenda. The President, in what would anchor his legacy, unveiled the plan pillared on food security, manufacturing, universal health coverage, and affordable housing.  Don’t ask me how I know but there are universally accepted unwritten rules when using a public men’s toilet. One, if you are the first guy in the toilet, always pick the urinal on one end; two, if you are the second guy in, pick the urinal on the other far end; three, make no eye contact or small talk; and four, which is the golden cardinal rule, if you are the third guy in, always leave at least one empty urinal, if not multiple, between the first and second guy. Conservationists have opposed the proposed upgrade of a road that cuts through the Aberdares Forest. The Kenya National Highways Authority wants to upgrade the Ihithe-Aberdare Forest-Kahuruko-Ndunyu Njeru road. The project involves the upgrading of the section from earth to an all-weather road.  The anti-graft agencies have their work cut out to investigate current and former governors accused of overseeing loss of funds. On Thursday last week, the Senate unanimously adopted 63 reports by the County Public Accounts and Investments Committee, effectively paving the way for the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission and the Directorate of Criminal Investigations to swing into action. The reports recommend prosecution of the county chief.