The World Bank has praised the Kirinyaga county administration’s implementation of projects funded under the Kenya Urban Support Programme. The county’s Kerugoya/Kutus municipality is among seven out of 59 across the country which have met the financier's conditions and qualified for a second-round grant. World Bank's urban specialist Davison Muchadenyika said that he was impressed by the implementation of the first phase projects hence the continued partnership. The first phase involved a grant of Sh71.3 million for cabro paving in Kutus and the construction of Kerugoya fresh produce market sheds. Another project undertaken was the construction of a daycare centre for mothers working in the county’s Wezesha Mama apparel factory located in Kerugoya town. Muchadenyika said that the visit to the county was to review implementation progress, achievements and challenges. The team will also finalise the second annual performance assessment results in preparation of the next disbursement to qualifying counties. Governor Anne Waiguru said that such partnerships were important to achieving the development agenda of the county. Waiguru said that her government was committed to growing the county’s infrastructure for economic development and improved livelihoods for residents. KUSP Project Coordinator Victor Ogutu praised the county’s good working relationship with the Kerugoya market traders. Ogutu said the relationship made the implementation of the programme run smoothly. No trader was displaced during construction of the market. Kerugoya market chairman Samuel Mwangi told the delegation that the market will benefit the traders who have been selling wares under the scorching sun and heavy rains. The traders have been using umbrellas for shade which they have had to replace from time to time since they wear out quickly due to sun. Mwangi thanked the county government for the market that will accommodate more than 1,200 traders. He said traders will also be able to transact business at night since the market will have a lighting system. The market secretary Janet Kibuchi said that the sheds were a Godsend, especially to women who will not have to worry anymore about rains or sunshine. The second phase of the KUSP will involve expansion of Kerugoya town parking spaces, access roads, pedestrian and non-motorable ways, drainage and landscaping of Kerugoya Hospital frontage. 