The construction of JKIA -Rironi Expressway launched by President Uhuru Kenyatta in October is in limbo. The Sh50 billion double-decker road project has been hampered by the lack of an environmental impact assessment by Nema and a tolling law, delaying the signing of Public-Private Partnership. The National Environment Management Authority says the project is a high-risk hence an impact assessment should have been conducted before it was launched. Nema communications boss Evans Nyabuto said Kenya National Highways Authority which is overseeing the project was to apply for an update of the existing report. “As per our records, they have not done so,” Nyabuto told the Star. The government, however, seems determined to push on with the expressway without the approvals. Kenha insists that it is in possession of a licence which is valid up to 2021 based on previous designs. “The process for scope variation of the license based on the contractor’s scheme of work, which includes JKIA to Mlolongo section, is ongoing and NEMA have indicated they will speed up the review of the EIA Report to take 45 days and not 90 days,” Kenha communications official Charles Njogu told the star. Njogu said Nema has granted interim approval for the project to proceed based on the current licence while a scope amendment process proceeds. He said Kenha has already carried out stakeholder mapping and engagements which commenced last month in Syokimau and Mlolongo. Sources have told the Star that while contractor — China Road and Bridge Corporation (CRBC) — was given a letter of comfort, the office of the Attorney General is yet to issue the mandatory legal opinion on the deal. The tolling law, for instance, will specify the amount CRBC will charge motorists and also provide a remedy in case the venture turns barren midway. Already there are murmurs that CRBC will have recovered its investments with profits within 12 years and therefore should hand over to the government. National Assembly Transport Committee chairman David Pkosing acknowledged that there was no law to guide how the Chinese company will levy motorists. He said once MPs resume sittings in February, his committee will prioritise the law to allow the contractor to proceed with the construction without hitches. “That is the only challenge we have now. The tolling law was contained in a bill that Senate rejected,” he said in office in Nairobi. Pkosing said the road will be a game changer in the management of traffic in Nairobi. With a design speed of 80 kilometres per hour, the objective is to reduce the travel time through Nairobi from other parts of the country. It will save motorists a lot in fuel expenses and loss of productive hours. The city is already losing Sh50 million daily to traffic jams according to estimates by Kenha. The expressway will reduce traffic flow to a tolerable delay compared to present times when peak hours are characterised by gridlock. CRBC projects that traffic volume on the A8 corridor will thus decline from six per cent in 2022 to an all-time low of 0.2 per cent in 2050. 