Women in remand prison in Eldoret have protested against delays in the hearing of their cases due to lack of proper legal representation. Some of them blame prosecutors and pro bono lawyers deployed by the government to handle their cases. The suspects say that some of them have been in jail longer than should be the case. Human rights organisations in the North Rift region have asked the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions to intervene and ensure quick handling of the cases. The Centre for Human Rights and Mediation director Nick Omito said they had established that lawyers deployed by the government to help the inmates fail to appear in courts. “Some of the lawyers deliberately fail to appear in court as tasked by the government while others even go to the extent of asking the female inmates to pay for the services which the government caters for especially as concerns capital offences,” Omito said. Omito spoke at the Eldoret GK Women Prison after a legal aid sensitisation activity. The event was a collaboration with the Kenya National Human Rights Commission. The director blamed the police department for not doing proper investigations before arresting suspects. He gave the example of five inmates who were arrested and charged for stealing a child yet they had reported to the police that the child was in their custody. “The women had recovered the child and reported the matter but were arrested and charged and now they are here in prison facing a case that should have been sorted out otherwise,” Omito said. The officer-in-charge of Eldoret GK Prison  Eunice Odhiambo said there was a need for civic education to the public about laws affecting children because ignorance had landed many women in prison. Odhiambo said that many of the inmates do not understand why they were arrested. She urged the public to follow legal procedures whenever they come across a child who is lost. “In the case of the stolen children, most of the women did what they considered human to keep them safe but the law considers such action as theft,” she said. Inmates Jackline Chepkemei, Prisila Chepng'etich and Caroline Khalayi said they had been to courts many times but lawyers sent to represent them failed to appear. The Eldoret GK Prison women's section has about 200 inmates. 