The boldness with which Senate Majority Leader and Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen is taking on the Executive is attracting national attention. Barely a month after protesting in the presence of President Uhuru Kenyatta over how the unveiling of BBI Report was conducted, Murkomen on Saturday fired yet another salvo targeting Uhuru. The President had on Jamhuri Day celebrations at Nyayo Stadium criticised senators who are lawyers and are representing governors facing graft charges. In a clear indication of his expanding daring spirit, Murkomen told off Uhuru, saying the work of the Senate is to protect counties. Some ODM MPs are furious with one of their colleagues eyeing a governor's job and also pushing for scrapping of the National Government Constituency Development Fund. He wants those monies channelled to the county government, leaving MPs with their core mandate of legislation, oversight and representation. Corridors has learnt that the MP was shouted down during the recent joint Parliamentary Group and NEC meeting when he suggested that the party presents taking CDF cash to the counties as part of their fresh proposals to the BBI. His colleagues wondered why he was silent for the last seven years only to come up with such proposals when he has announced going for the county’s top job. The arrest, arraignment of Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko has sent a county chief into a panic. An ally of the governor tells Corridors that the county boss is worried that some of those who have expressed interest in taking over from him might expose his corrupt undertakings. He said the governor has drafted a list of his preferred successors whom he believes will protect his interests when he leaves office. The county chief is said to have pledged to use all the money he has to prevent any of his strongest critics from ascending to the top county seat and unmasking him. Still on governors, yet another  county chief is also panicking after learning that he is on the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission's radar and could be summoned early next year for grilling over a hospital project in his county. Already, EACC officers visited his county and collected documents that revealed massive graft in tendering of the project. The governor has been avoiding many functions in his county and as chosen to remain quiet as he seeks help from some quarters to prevent possible prosecution. The same governor is also being probed over illegal expenditures of county funds. He recently whispered to a friend that he fears 2020 would be a nightmare for him if the ongoing probes are not stopped. 