Farmers and MPs in the Rift Valley have demanded a meeting with Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri over the delayed opening of NCPB depots and low produce prices. The North Rift MPs led by Sila Tiren of Moiben said the delayed opening of the depots would expose the farmers to middlemen and brokers who are now buying maize at throwaway prices. “We have written to CS Kiunjuri requesting a meeting so that we iron out the issues affecting the farmers, including those in the dairy sector, who are suffering because of low prices," Tiren said. Milk prices have dropped from more than Sh34 per litre to less than Sh17 because of importation and high production during the rainy season. Farmers want the government to buy all milk and turn it into powder for storage. On the other hand, maize prices have now dropped to less than Sh2,600 per 90 Kg and farmers are now selling their produce to brokers because of the delayed opening of NCPB. The government is yet to release more than Sh5 Billion to the Strategic Grain Reserves Fund for maize purchase at the NCPB. A month ago, the board announced that it would buy four million bags to replenish the strategic reserves at the NCPB but the money is yet to be released. The SGR board has also delayed plans to set maize prices at the NCPB because of the prevailing favourable market in most areas. Strategic Food Reserve chairman Noah Wekesa says the maize market is still stable. “We will, however, intervene should the prices drop to levels that will threaten the situation,” Wekesa said. Farmers who met in Eldoret on Wednesday said they are ready to work with the board to ensure the market remains stable for their benefit and that of consumers. “We will appreciate the board’s intervention should the market situation change,” Kenya Farmers Association director Kipkorir Menjo said. Menjo said they have been informed that SGR board was still waiting for the allocation of Sh5 billion to buy maize from farmers "in the next few weeks". “The board should be funded so that it can buy the maize from farmers and ensure the prices remain stable," Menjo said. Maize production this year is expected to drop by at least 11 million bags mainly due drought during the planting season. Last year, farmers harvested  43 million bags. Agriculture CAS Andrew Tuimur has said this year's production will be about 32 million bags, mostly from high producing areas of Trans Nzoia and Uasin Gishu. Tuimur said the government was already making plans to buy maize from farmers to restock the SFR. The majority of the farmers in the North Rift and South Rift are harvesting and they expect NCPB depots to be opened soon. Last year, the board bought maize from farmers at Sh2,300 per bag but most farmers refused to deliver their produce, demanding at least Sh3,200 per bag for them to make a profit. The CAS has told maize growers that the government was prepared to purchase their stocks. “The government will buy more stock from farmers this season and we are waiting for the Strategic Food Reserve Board to make the necessary preparations,” he said. Tuimur said the drop in production was no cause for alarm as the country was well prepared. Led by Tom Korgoren from Uasin Gishu, the farmers asked the SFR board to always consider their input costs when setting prices. “The government has been setting the price without even knowing the cost of production,” Korgoren said. He said they do not expect the government to allow in any imports citing enough stocks.