Kenyans have been warned to brace themselves for a wet Jamhuri Day after the Meteorological Department released their seven-day forecast. The ongoing heavy rains have so far claimed the lives of 118 people countrywide and affected more than 32 counties by destroying property worth millions of shillings. In the Wednesday notice, the on Wednesday, Met said the Lake Victoria Basin, the Highlands, West of the Rift Valley, Central and South Rift Valley are likely to experience morning rains over few places throughout from December 10 to 16. These include counties of Siaya, Kisumu, Homabay, Migori, Kisii, Nyamira, Trans Nzoia, Baringo, UasinGishu, Elgeyo-Marakwet, Nandi, Laikipia, Nakuru, Narok, Kericho, Bomet, Kakamega, Vihiga,Bungoma and Busia. "Afternoon showers and thunderstorms are likely to occur over several places," the weatherman said adding that showers and thunderstorms are expected over few places at night. Northwestern counties of Turkana, West Pokot and Samburu counties are likely to experience morning rains over few places throughout the period. Afternoon showers and thunderstorms are likely to occur over a few places except on Wednesday, Friday and Monday which will experience sunny intervals. Showers and thunderstorms are expected over a few places at night except on Sunday and Monday when partly cloudy conditions are expected. Highlands East of the Rift Valley (including Nairobi area, Nyandarua, Nyeri, Kirinyaga, Murang'a, Kiambu, Meru, Embu, and Tharaka counties are likely to experience morning rains over several places on Tuesday and Sunday and over few places during the rest of the forecast period. Afternoon showers are likely to occur over several places except on Wednesday and Friday when showers are expected over few places. Showers are also expected over a few places during the night except on Monday when partly cloudy conditions are expected. Marsabit, Mandera, Wajir, Garissa and Isiolo counties are likely to experience morning rains over several places on Wednesday and Friday and over few places on the remaining days. Afternoon and night showers are likely to occur over a few places throughout the forecast period. However, on Thursday and Saturday afternoon showers are likely to spread to several places. Southeastern Lowlands (Counties of Kajiado, Kitui, Makueni, Machakos and Taita Taveta) are likely to experience morning rains as well as afternoon and night showers over few places throughout the forecast period. However, the morning rains and afternoon showers on Tuesday, Saturday and Sunday are likely to spread to several places. The Mombasa, Tana River, Kilifi, Lamu and Kwale counties are likely to experience morning and afternoon showers over few places throughout the forecast period. However, the showers may spread to several paces on Saturday and Monday both in the morning and afternoon. Wednesday and Friday are expected to have sunny intervals in the afternoon. Nights are expected to be partly cloudy although showers may occur over few places on Saturday and Monday.