MACRAINE AKINYI "I feel so privileged to be among teenagers striving to change the world by helping others. It is unbelievable that what started just as idea for a challenge is turning out to be such a vital resource,” Macraine Akinyi said. "I was just a Form 2  girl. Though growing up I have seen both my parents work on computers, I was not sure whether technology was my area too,” she added. Macraine Just finished her KCSE exam. “We started in Form 2, but my heart has been at peace knowing that I am already part of a product that aims at helping other girls who don’t have a voice,” she said. She would love to see the app developed more to reach out to those in remote areas. “There are many things that can make you better. All you need to have is an open mind and to think outside the box because that is where there is satisfaction,” she said. Macraine said it is unfortunate many girls are still feeling caged and think tech is a man's world. "If we had more girls taking up such challenges to be more innovative in finding solutions that affect society, we could easily end the myths and false perceptions that have put women down,” she said IVY AKINYI Ivy Akinyi said the i-Cut app brings the picture of girls that need help to her mind. She said in 2017 when she joined the Lady’s in Tech Club, she was not sure whether science was the route she wanted. "When I heard of the tecnovation challenge, I told myself I would try it out. We had a colleague who had narrated how she had undergone the cut at age eight. She hated her parents so much for forcing her through the cut without her consent. Her story was scary and we thought FGM was the best theme we could work on,” she said. She said as teenagers they have gone through a lot and developing the app from a challenge to its current status has been difficult. She is however grateful to her school for providing a good environment to work on the app. "For now, I want to perfect my coding skills so we can improve the app and put it on Play Store. Its current status is in blocks and if we developed it more to codes that would have given us a breakthrough,” Ivy said. The girl who's crazy about technology says she wants to become a programmer. “FGM should not be your setback, come out and speak and let us together help society,” she said. CYNTHIA OTIENO A 19-year-old and second-year student at JKUAT, Cynthia said as a team they have been trying their best to work on the app. She said she had watched more news on FGM and when they picked the subject, she knew it would be a big challenge. “We wanted to do plastic recycling but when we gave it thought again, we opted for FGM. We began looking for challenges and decided to develop the i-Cut,” she said. Cynthia said since then they have been listening to many FGM stories from survivors and that gives them more reasons to have the app rolled out. She said though FGM has been banned, it is shocking that it still rampant in many areas. What they do as a team is to give hope to those affected in one way or the other. “You do not need to be a big person in the society, no matter how small that idea may look, just work on it,” she said. Cynthia, who grew up in Kisumu, said her mother sells fish to make ends meet. Her father has health problems but her background has not limited her dreams. “I am the firstborn among seven siblings, so much rests on my shoulders, especially working on the app, attending to classwork and the family but all in all, through the team, all is manageable,” Cynthia said. She is currently studying for a bachelor's of science in maths and computer science. PURITY ACHIENG The 19-year-old is pursuing Computer Science at Kenyatta University and said she is happy to be able to reach out and help people understand what FGM is and why it should be stopped. “When we started off this project and it moved from being a challenge to a reality, we realised that communities that don't practice FGM knew nothing about it. So speaking about it has created a chance for awareness,” she said. According to her, it is surprising that though they all come from communities that don't practice FGM, not speaking about it is putting many more girls at greater risk.