There are no chances that mega-dams constructed by the government could collapse as a result of the ongoing rains. Water Engineer Samuel Alima on Tuesday told the Star that a panel of experts is normally engaged in large dams. “The sites and materials are professionally selected,” he said. The ravaging rains have been pounding most parts of the country, sparking fears that dams could collapse. The Kenya Meteorological Department on Sunday announced that the rainfall is expected to continue into January over several parts of the country. However, the intensity is expected to reduce and there will be occasional breaks (dry spells). At least 330,000 people have been displaced by floods since the rains began in October. Alima said there is no cause for alarm. “Large dams such as Ndakaini have emergency spillways to release water,” Alima said. Early this month, the ministry warned of a possible spillover from several dams. On December 6, Water CS Simon Chelugui issued a flood status of the country’s water resources. Chelugui, who was speaking at his office, pointed out that this year’s rains were abnormally heavy in comparison to short rains experienced in the previous years. He urged the public to be extremely cautious to avoid further destruction of lives, property and biodiversity. Water Resources Authority chairman Joe Mutambu put all dam owners on notice to ensure their dams possessed structural integrity that would not jeopardise the lives of Kenyans. “We will decommission non-compliant cases,” Mutambu warned. Last year on May 10, water from Patel Dam in Nakuru county caused massive destruction after its raging waters killed 44 people and injured another 41. Authorities then said 10 million litres of water was retained in the dam even as 90 per cent of its volume poured downstream, carrying residents with it and causing massive destruction. WRA chief executive officer Mohamed Shurie urged the public to harness this opportunity to harvest water to ensure they have water throughout all seasons. He said floods have brought substantial groundwater recharge, ensuring that boreholes have significant amounts of water. “Masinga Dam is only left with only 1.28 metres to fill up; and with the current intensity, it might fill up on Sunday (December 8 ) in the morning,” Chelugui said. “Kiambere Dam is also most likely to achieve its full level supply within 48 hours given the current intensity.” The CS reiterated the need for all people living near rivers, lakes and mega-dams to move to higher grounds for their safety. On December 13, WRA notified citizens living around the Tana Delta to observe utmost caution following an overflow at Kiambere Dam. Sasumua and Ruiru dams have also been overflowing. Ndakaini was then at 96 per cent and was expected to achieve full capacity by the end of this month if the rains continue with the same intensity. On Tuesday, Ndakaini Dam Manager Job Kihamba said the dam was full. Kihamba, however, said the dam is strong and does not pose any challenge to residents.“We keep on monitoring it daily, weekly and monthly depending on schedule,” Kihamba told the Star on the phone. Ndakaini can store 70 million cubic metres of water at full capacity. The dam is 2,041 metres above sea level and 65 metres deep. It also has a 75-square-kilometre catchment area. It includes Kimakia and Gatare forests in the Aberdares. Thika, Githika and Kayuyu rivers feed the dam that supplies more than 80 per cent of Nairobi’s water whose demand stands at 770,000 cubic metres per day. The water supplied is 526,000 cubic metres. On December 14, WRA issued an imminent flood warning to residents in Thika following an overflow at Sasumua and Ruiru dams which were at full capacity. The authority notified citizens living on the lower side of the Ndakaini Dam to be on high alert and to observe utmost caution. Those living in Thika town and around Chania and Thika rivers were particularly urged to take caution. The rains come as a relief to Nairobi residents who have been enduring water rationing. Edited by R.Wamochie