Mathare United snapped their two-match winless run in the Kenyan Premier League with a 4-0 drubbing of Nzoia Sugar at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani yesterday. Prior to the match, the Slum Boys had succumbed 3-1 and 3-0 to Kakamega Homeboyz and AFC Leopards respectively but bounced back to winning ways, leaving coach Salim Ali full of praises for his charges. “Losing twice was unlike us and I am proud of the players’ reaction. We missed four key players in the last two matches but their return brought a positive impact. We also conceded six goals in our last two matches but we managed to keep a clean sheet, which is a plus,” said the former player. His Nzoia counterpart Collins Omondi heavily blamed the loss on KPL for ignoring their wish to have the match rescheduled to a later date. “It was our wish to have the match shelved but KPL declined. My players had not fully switched from holiday mood. We created chances but we could not make them count hence the need to make some signings in January,” said a livid Omondi. Mathare showed intent from the onset, pitching camp in Nzoia’s area in search for the opener. However,the visitors ravenously frustrated the hosts, who would have gone ahead barely a minute into the game through Alphonce Ndonye, who fired inches off target with just the goalkeeper to beat. The trio of Lenox Ogutu, Kevin Kimani and Daniel Otieno also wasted clear-cut chances. However, Mathare’s efforts paid off in the 37th minute when seasoned striker Clifford Alwanga headed home James Kinyanjui’s cross past a hapless former national U-20 goalkeeper Humphrey Katasi. Seven minutes after the break, Otieno doubled the lead for Mathare, pulling the trigger metres from the box from another of Kinyanjui’s pass. Having already registered two assists, Kinyanjui capped his superb performance with the third goal for the Slum Boys in the 71st minute, lobbing the ball past am advancing Katasi. Three minutes later Tyson Otieno, who had came in for an weary Alwanga drove the final nail on Nzoia’s coffin, netting the fourth goal from close range. Meanwhile, Posta Rangers denied champions Gor Mahia the chance to open a three-point gap at the top after holding them to a one-all draw at the Narok Stadium. Joseph Mbugi was on target for the mailmen while Kenneth Muguna replied for Gor.