A relentless fight aginst female genital mutilation and early marriage among teenage schoolgirls has earned Mumina Harun a promotion. Mumina has served for more than 11 years as an assistant chief for Konoramadha in Madogo, Tana river county. On Thursday, she was inaugurated as Mulanjo chief in a colourful ceremony. She had held the position on acting capacity for more than a year. It has taken hard work, resilience and determination that earned her the nickname ‘iron lady’ by local residents. Speaking to the press after her inauguration, Mumina thanked the residents for standing with her. She said that despite pressure from local senior political leaders that the position goes to another person, they refused. “I have been involved in the fight against FGM, early marriages and teenage marriages while I was assistant chief. I promise to double my efforts especially now that I am a full chief and have the support of my community,” she said. Tana North deputy county commissioner  Philip Soi who presided over the ceremony promised to support Mumina fully. Mohamed Abdi, 60, a local elder said that Mumina fully deserves the promotion.  She has earned it through sheer hard work, Abdi said. “Mumina is one lady who is always on the forefront to confront ills bedevilling the society. She will take you head-on whether you are a man or woman as long as she is within the confines of the law,” Abdi said. Abdi said he had once gone to Mumina's office to negotiate for a case she was handling involving a teenage girl who got pregnant while in school. “She told us off, saying the rule of law must be followed to the letter,” he said. Mohamed said that at first, they thought it was a joke and even after mobilising more elders she could not move an inch from her stand. Soy instructed chiefs and their assistants to ensure that all school-aged children are enrolled in January next year. The chief urged elected and opinion leaders to join the war against FGM whose aim is to uplift the status of women in Tana North. Mumina, 37, promised to serve all the residents of Mulanjo irrespective of their clans, gender or status in the community. Abshiro Mansa, an activist with Girl Child Network, said the promotion of Mumina was an honour to women in Tana North who have endured discrimination by men. Mansa said that their campaign would move a notch higher given that Mumina not only understands the plight of women in the area, but has been involved first hand.