Gor Mahia Chief Executive Officer Lordvick Aduda claims the financial deficiency bedevilling the Kenyan Premier League is as a result of poor administration at the Football Kenya Federation. Since the unceremonious exit of gaming firm SportPesa in August, the Kenyan football has rode on a rocky path in what Aduda described as lack of clear transition policy and long term plans by FKF who are mandated to oversee all activities. Apart from KPL, other football entities who were hit hard by the exit of the gaming firm, include FKF, Gor Mahia, AFC Leopards and grass-root based annual football tournament Koth Biro among others. Aduda argued that corporates shy away from filling in the gap, thanks to the uncertainty of the current office bearers, who have remained mum over the future of the Kenyan Premier League. The current deal between FKF and KPL is set to expire in September next year and the league body is understood to be negotiating for the renewal of the terms. Aduda asserted that KPL would have landed a new title sponsor had FKF announced their stand over their future. He said by failing to clear the air on their stance on KPL and declare they will hold free and fair election and vacate office in case they fail, willing corporates will be left with no option other than watch the unfolding events from the fence. “Corporates can only invest in an environment where we have structures, accountability and good governance, which is devoid of ignorance of the law. "If the current regime can't hold elections in accordance to the law and assure KPL that they will renew or terminate the contract, then how will sponsors invest in football?"How will KPL get money if corporates know that their deal will come to an end next year and are not sure of who will take over?' posed Aduda He added: “until we fix the mess in the top office,  then we will continue struggling. They (FKF) recently signed two deals to hoodwink people that they are developing football and hence earn another term. In real sense, clubs are getting nothing out of those deals yet they have sold the naming rights. Once we have clear structures from at FKF,  sponsors will invest heavily in the game,” he claimed. Meanwhile Aduda said Gor will hold elections early next year after amending their constitution to meet the demands set by the Sports Registrar. Gor were initially set to conduct the exercise this month. “We are angling at the possibility of having elections early next year after we stabilise the team financially and finish the process of amending the constitution in line with the advice from the registrar’s office. Once we have achieved that, the executive will come up with a date for the polls,” he said. 