Mike Sonko is still the Governor of Nairobi and he can nominate a deputy even if the court bars him from setting foot in his office at City Hall. That is something he can do anytime and send the name to the county assembly for approval as advised by the Supreme Court. If the governor fails to appoint a deputy, then there will be a constitutional crisis. There is a need to seek the interpretation of the Constitution on some of these issues. But what will follow, most likely, is that the national government might stop sending funds to the county government as stipulated in the County Government’s Act and the Constitution. Then, the National Government will take over the function of the County Government with the approval of the Senate. This can be done in the interim pending the long process of dissolving the county. If the county government cannot completely function, then the only way is to dissolve it. In this case, a commission of inquiry will be formed to examine the allegations advanced. If the commission finds that the county can’t function, then it makes a recommendation to the President to dissolve the county government. Once the resolution [to dissolve the county] has been made, then the President’s work will be simply to officially dissolve the county government. Dissolving a county government is a very long process. That is why the government might decide to run it on an interim basis until the next elections or until a by-election is held. Again, there is also legal interpretation that has to be delivered by the Supreme Court in this extreme case of Nairobi where we don’t have a deputy governor but the speaker is in office. For example, the Supreme Court should pronounce itself in an instance where there is no deputy governor, can the Speaker act as governor? Currently, the law only says that the Speaker will take over the management of a county government if there is a vacancy in the office of the governor and that of the deputy governor. The vacancies can only arise from reasons or grounds listed in the Constitution. Lawyer Peter Wanyama spoke to the Star