Thirty-one per cent of the employees at the Kenya Wildlife Service can part with a bribe to influence the human resource process, a new survey has shown. The corruption perception and experience survey launched by Tourism CS Najib Balala on Monday shows that 21 per cent perceive corruption as acceptable. The survey shows that 68 per cent of permanent staff said paying bribes to speed up the provision of services was rife. Undertaken in April, the survey shows that 18 per cent of permanent staff believe it is acceptable to influence human resource processes. Thirteen per cent of permanent staff responded that it is usually acceptable to influence human resource processes. The intended outcome of the survey was to access the perceived level of corruption and experience of staff across different regions with the view of enhancing anti-corruption initiatives. KWS and the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime conducted the survey. It sought feedback from 1,829 staff. However, the survey response rate exceeded the target, receiving a response from 2,056 staff. There were 524 males, 1,052 females while 30 did not indicate gender. The survey targeted KWS staff headquarters and field stations, including both uniformed and non-uniformed cadres drawn from different management levels. KWS conserves and manages Kenya’s wildlife for the Kenyan people and the world. The service manages approximately eight per cent of Kenya's landmass consisting of 23 national parks, 31 national reserves, six national sanctuaries, four marine national parks and six marine national reserves. Balala tasked the service to effect changes in its human resources department. "You cannot have casuals for 10 years," he said. The CS said the service needs to adopt a seamless system to ensure fast-track the process of paying park fees. Bureau of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs deputy assistant secretary Heather Merritt said corruption accounts for $2.6 trillion (Sh260 trillion) every year. "It pushes threatened species to the brink of extinction," she said. The survey shows that 24 per cent of the staff felt it is sometimes acceptable to influence the procurement process, with 14 per cent saying it is acceptable. Twelve per cent of permanent staff believe it is acceptable to influence the procurement process. Among the temporary staff, 11 per cent believe it is acceptable to influence the procurement process while 13 per cent believe it is usually acceptable. Eleven per cent of the permanent staff can easily accept sub-standard goods and services in return for benefits. Another 11 per cent of permanent staff believe it is usually acceptable to accept sub-standard goods and services in return for benefits. Nine per cent of permanent staff believe it is sometimes acceptable to receive money or gifts to speed up processes. Eight per cent of permanent staff say it is acceptable to receive money or gifts to speed up processes. The survey shows that seven per cent of temporary staff finds it usually acceptable to steal KWS assets. Eleven per cent of permanent staff say it is usually acceptable to misuse KWS assets. KWS director general John Waweru, KWS board chair John Waithaka, Wildlife PS Fred Segor, Tourism CAS Joseph Boinnet were present during the launch.