The anti-graft agencies have their work cut out to investigate current and former governors accused of overseeing loss of funds. On Thursday last week, the Senate unanimously adopted 63 reports by the County Public Accounts and Investments Committee, effectively paving the way for the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission and the Directorate of Criminal Investigations to swing into action. The reports recommend prosecution of the county chief. The adoption comes at a time when four governors are battling corruption charges in court in the wake of a renewed onslaught by the government. Already, three county chiefs have been barred from setting foot in their officers after they were charged with corruption. They are Mike Sonko (Nairobi), Moses Lenolkulal (Samburu) and Ferdinand Waititu (Kiambu). Busia’s Sospeter Ojaamong has also been arraigned. The reports recommend the investigation of at least 13 current and 10 former governors for the possible loss of funds during their tenures. The oversight committee scrutinises the financial books of county governments. Some of the counties mentioned in the PAIC report on the inquiry into financial operations of county executives in 2013-14 and 2014-15 are Alfred Mutua’s Machakos, Martin Wambora’s Embu and Cornel Rasanga’s Siaya. Others are Nyamira led by John Nyangarama, Makueni headed by Kivutha Kibwana, Jackson Mandago’s Uasin Gishu, Kericho under Paul Chepkwony, Kwale led by Salim Mvurya and Kilifi under Amason Kingi. Former governors recommended for probe include Evans Kidero (Nairobi), Issa Timamy (Lamu), Joseph Nduati (Kirinyaga), Kinuthia Mbugua (Nakuru) and Peter Munya (Meru). The Senate wants the EACC and the DCI to probe and prosecute the county bosses with a view of recovering the money lost. On Friday, committee chairman Moses Kajwang (Homa Bay) said they expect an update on the status of the implementation of the reports from the agencies within three months as stipulated by law. “We don’t have a committee in the Senate to follow up the implementation of the report, so our committee will follow up,” Kajwang told The Star. Section 53 of the Public Audit Act states: “The relevant accounting officer of a state organ or public entity shall within three months after Parliament has considered and made recommendations on the audit report, take the relevant steps to implement the recommendations of parliament on the report of the Auditor-General.” The reports reveal that some of the governors have been overseeing massive irregularities, ranging from flawed multimillion tendering processes and blatant conflict of interests, overpayments and misused of car loans and mortgages. They say public money was lost through inflation and faking of pending bills, poor bookkeeping and failure to recover imprests advanced to employees. “The committee noted that the noncompliance of the law resulted in the loss of public funds and recommends that the DCI and the EACC investigate the violation of the process and law with a view of prosecuting those responsible,” the 2013-14 report reads. In Machakos, for instance, it recommends that Mutua be investigated for the loss of taxpayers’ money through several illegal and irregular procurement of goods and services, citing 17 generators acquired for Sh10.40 million through restricted tendering. (Edited by F'Orieny)