 Residents of Kijabe in Lari constituency have threatened to trap and kill monkeys that invade their farms and eat crops. They said the animals, moving in troops of between 20 and 30, have often avoided traps laid by Kenya Wildlife Service officials. Salome Wanjiku on Thursday said they were going to lay their own traps to kill the monkeys. "We have not harvested anything for the past six years," Wanjiku said. She said residents formally complained to KWS and the agency responded by driving away the animals before they returned. KWS has been laying traps to catch some of the marauding primates to know success. "For the last five years, KWS only caught three monkeys. These animals avoid traps so much," Wanjiku said. Villages affected include Macani, King'atua and Mbao-ini and the Kijabe mission center, Kijabe Mission Hospital. Both Kijabe Boys and Kijabe Girls high schools and the Rift Valley Academy have also been invaded for food by the monkeys. Njeri Gathari said the primates were entering hospital wards and snatching food from patients. "Last week, we visited a patient at Kijabe Mission Hospital and the monkeys came to the windows and tried to snatch food. Another monkey actually snatched food from a patient at the hospital canteen," Gathari said. Area chief Njoroge Mungai said the primates were moving from Kijabe, Kinale and Ngubi forests to people's homes and farms in search of food. "These villages and the center itself are in the middle of the forest," Mungai said. Bedan Njoroge said they will make unique traps that don't have resemblance to the ones used by KWS to catch the animals. "When we make these traps, we shall be killing them and letting these primates realise that once caught, it's killed and I believe they will vanish. That is the only way forward" Njoroge said. Njoroge said residents cannot stop growing food crops because the area is agriculturally productive. He said women were forced to wear trousers to avoid teasing from male monkeys. KWS officer's stationed in the area said they will make further attempts to trap the animals. The officials declined to be named.  edited by p.o