Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko has been arrested by DCI detectives in Voi a few hours after the Director of Public Prosecution Noordin Haji ordered for his arrest. Sonko will be brought to Nairobi in a police chopper. He is expected to land at the Wilson Airport before being taken to Integrity Centre for processing. Haji had earlier on Friday said he had sufficient evidence to warrant the prosecution of Sonko as well as senior City Hall officials following a review of the investigation file handed to the DPP by the EACC. "I have ordered for the immediate arrest and arraignment of Sonko and other officials for the crimes of conflict of interest arising from having received money from the county of Nairobi while serving as governor, unlawful acquisition of public property, money laundering and other economic crimes," Haji said. Haji said Sonko and several other City Hall officials to be charged facilitated and/or benefitted from the irregular procurement and payments amounting to Sh357 million. Sonko and the other suspects are facing eight charges including the abuse of office which is contradicting section 48 of the Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Act. DPP Haji said that corruption has been fighting back as implicated leaders try to mobilise goons to protest the arrest and arraignment. "We shall not allow such dastardly acts to go on and l have directed the law enforcement agencies to investigate any such attempts and upon the establishment of evidence additional charges shall be preferred against those perpetrating these acts," Haji said. Haji warned members of the public from being used by elected leaders as their shield whenever they are involved in crimes. The City Hall officials to face charges are Peter Mbugua Kariuki (County Secretary), Patrick Mwangang'i (Head Supply Chain Management), Negotiation Tender Opening and Evaluation Committee members Samuel Ndung'u Mwangi, Edwin Kariuki Murimi, Lawrence Mwangi Mukuru, Preston Mwandiki Miriti. Others are senior clerical officers Wambua Ndaka, Andrew Nyasiego. Also to be charged are private persons and business entities that benefitted from funds irregularly acquired from the Nairobi City County Government.