Jacob Krop is seeking to defend his title at the Endebess Road Race on Sunday as part of his preparations for the 2020 World Under-20 Championships at Moi Stadium, Kasarani. Krop, a 2019 World Championships 5,000m finalist, won last year's edition to take home a cow and Sh30,000and will have a double-pronged attack come this weekend. "I want to win the race and also gauge myself after tough training in preparations for next year's championships," said Krop. Speaking at the Chewoyet National School, the designated U-20 camp in West Pokot County, Krop added: "I feel I am in better shape than I was heading to Doha -for the world championships." "Running against the senior athletes at the national trials and in Doha has given me some valuable experience, which I am certain will come in handy as I seek to deliver the 5,000m title at the U20 championships." On Sunday, however, he will be seeking to keep at bay some of his training mates including Shadrack Kipngetich - who was fifth at the national trials, Godfrey Musanga and Shadrack Kiplagat. Krop is part of the 50 runners at Chewoyet, including 35 boys and 15 girls, drawn from West Pokot, Trans Nzoia, Elgeyo Marakwet and Nandi counties—preparing for the World U-20 show. Meanwhile, middle distance runner Simon Kipkosgei could not hide his joy while revealing that he has secured a full athletics scholarship at the New Mexico Junior College in the United States, where he will be studying Sports Management. "I am so happy and proud of this opportunity. I have the talent but no facilities and I believe this scholarship will help me realise my dreams. I want to attain a Masters Degree in Sports Management and as well break some record on the track," said the 800m and 1,500m prospect. The seventh-born in a family of nine narrated his tough journey towards his current status, especially after being orphaned at an early age. "It has been a tough journey coming all the way to completing my secondary school studies and I want to thank all the well-wishers who saw me through this journey," said Kipkosgei. "However, some of my siblings were not as lucky." Kipkosgei is set to leave for the US on January 18, where he will study for seven years. At Kapkoimur in Nandi County,  50 runners, picked from among the best performers in this year's primary and secondary school games, are training under legendary junior coach Robert Ngisirei. On a chilly evening, the bubbly teenagers expressed their desire to make Team Kenya to the World U-20 and Ngisirei confirmed that this is their main short term goal, but still has ambitions of laying down a firm foundation for future events. "We still have some challenges in terms of equipment and training kit but this has not dampened our spirits. These athletes have the potential to be the country's future stars and that is what we are working for," said Ngisirei.