COTU secretary general Francis Atwoli has hit at National Majority leader Aden Dulae and his Senate counterpart Kipchumba Murkomen for opposing referendum. Atwoli on Saturday said only a few people are calling for implementation of the BBI report through parliament. The COTU boss said Duale, Murkomen and Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria are the only three people out of the 47 million saying Parliament is the way to go. “Hata wale watu wanaosema hiikitu iende kwa bunge, they are only three people. Mtu wa kwanza anayeema hii kitu iende Parliament ni Duale, Murkomen na Moses Kuria. These are only three people out of about 45 million Kenyans,” Atwoli said. Atwoli was speaking in Bondo, Saiya county during a fundraising function. He said the Constitution belongs to all Kenyans and they should be allowed to take part in major decision-making processes. His comments come after Duale said that the BBI report should find its way to Parliament for implementation. Duale said unlike those calling for a referendum, he had read the report and seen nothing that Parliament cannot handle. The Garissa Town MP added that the report's proposals are great and will enhance efficiency if implemented well through legislation and other administrative channels. During the same event, Machakos governor Alfred Mutua who was among the guests said that power lies among the people and should be allowed to decide the fate of the BBI report. He said such voices can only be heard through a referendum. “Let the people decide. The power lies in the hands of the people, not a few elected officials. This is very important. Let the people decide,” Mutua said. His remarks were echoed by Siaya senator James Orengo who said Kenyans are the ones to amend the Constitution and not the MPs. Orengo further said  the BBI report will ensure that power is distributed among all Kenyans and not among few communities. The BBI report was launched on Wednesday at the Bomas of Kenya and has caused a heated debate in the country over which way is the best to implement it. A day after its launch, Opposition leader Raila Odinga said his brigade will not accept any debate on the report that do not lead to a referendum. He said parliamentarians are likely going to be compromised if they are let to iplement the report. "This report is people owned and will not be taken to Parliament. Kenyans will decide what t do do with the report," Raila said. But on Saturday, a group of 40 MPs from the Mt Kenya region said BBI will be implemented well in Parliament adding that holding a referendum before 2022 elections will be overburdening the taxpayers. While launching the report, President Uhuru Kenyatta urged Kenyans to read the report on their own and should not be swayed by the politicians.