 Wajir leaders have promised to defeat al Shabaab, saying they will not give up in the fight against terrorism. Al Shabaab militants last week attacked a Mander-bund bus in Kotulo and killed 11 people including eight police officers, a teacher and a doctor. Those killed were non-locals identified after the terrorists separated the more than 60 passengers into two groups. Speaking during Jamhuri Day celebrations at the Wajir Stadium, leaders including Governor Mohamed Abdi said the attack was still fresh in their minds and that it was time for a united assault against terrorists. Security was very tight. Abdi said residents and leaders must join forces with the state security machinery to defeat terror. The governor said local leaders will soon embark on holding meetings with residents in areas prone to terror attacks to sensitise them on the importance of cooperating with police in identifying criminals in their midst. He said terrorists were keen on dividing Kenyans along religious lines by killing only Christians whenever they attack. He said the militants also kill their fellow Muslims in similar attacks in Somalia.   “We resist any threats from al-Shabab and other criminal gangs that are against our prosperity and development. These characters are a real threat to humanity and our enemy number one. The earlier our people realise that the better because then it will be easier to completely eliminate terrorists,” Abdi said. “We will not accept to be defeated in this fight and I wish to implore our people to give information to security officers to help identify heinous acts.” Abdi said his administration has already recruited 60 national police reservits who have already been deployed to border towns. Wajir East MP Rashid Kassim said they will encourage residents to work with security personnel to maintain security. Wajir West MP Ahmed Kolosh regretted that terror attacks persist in Kenya and that "it was time we ask ourselves hard questions on why we have remained a soft target." County commissioner Loyford Kibaara said 11 suspects who were arrested following last week's attack will be taken to court when investigations are complete. the weekend and who include the driver of the bus, the conductor and the turn boy will be arraigned in court once investigations are complete. Among those arrested are the driver and the conductor of the bus. “They are still being interrogated. I only want to assure Kenyans that those behind the incident will be nabbed at the end of the day. They can run but they cannot hide,”  Kibaara said.  edited by p. obuya