A local startup Click Gas Limited has partnered with a Danish firm, Integrated Gas Technologies (IGT) to offer a solution that protects households from Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) fires. Global data shows that at least 14,300 people are killed due to gas leaks every year. In Kenya, gas fires are expected to rise with the increased use of LPG. The Pangani based firm is providing households with safety gas regulators that detect leaks and lock gas supply. The safety regulator turns off the gas supply from the cylinder when it detects a leakage when the regulator isn’t functioning correctly, and if the gas cooker is on but there is no flame. In an exclusive interview with the Star Newspaper, Click Gas Limited director Abdi Dere said their regulator is made from high-quality materials and latest manufacturing technology that meets local and international standards. ‘’Apart from stops gas leakage, our regulators indicate the gas label to enable users to know when to refill. They are compatible with different types of gas cylinders,’’ Abdi said. To use the regulator, one must inspect the gas pipe and any seals for dirt or damage and clean or replace them if necessary. Once the valve on the regulator is turned off, the user can now connect the gas pipe to the ClickGas regulator before turning it on. ‘’When buying a safety gas regulator, beware of the poor-quality products that are in the market nowadays and won’t do you any good. Our regulators have been tested and certified and will protect you and family from the dangers that come with gas use,’’ he added. The firm products, which can be ordered on Jumia or Nairobi depot in Pangani, are retailing at up to Sh2000. The product is coming into the market at the time Kenya has embarked on the drive top promote clean cooking fuel. In July, the Petroleum Institute of East Africa has partnered with the government in a move that will see the introduction of piped LPG gas into housing units. This is after research revealed that the country suffers approximately 21,500 deaths annually due to respiratory diseases, accounting for 40 per cent of Kenya’s health burden caused largely by indoor pollution due to cooking with firewood, charcoal and kerosene, a preventable health burden.