Shujaa have been drawn in a tricky group for next month Hamilton Sevens where they will face continental nemesis South Africa, England and Japan in Pool 'B'. Paul Feeney's charges will open their campaign against England, then tackle Japan and wrap up the preliminary round against the Dubai leg winners. Kenya have met South Africa twice this season, losing both encounters 17-12 in Dubai and 17-5 in Cape Town. Shujaa are yet to beat the Blitzbokke in 13 meetings. Kenya and England also met in Dubai with the East African losing 12-5. Shujaa are 11th on the log with 15 points and hope to turn the tide following the return of talisman Collins Injera for the Hamilton and Sydney legs. Hosts New Zealand headline Pool 'A' and will battle out with Scotland, USA and Wales. France are the top seeds in Pool 'C' and will take on Ireland, Canada and Spain. Pool 'D' is arguably the pool of death with Olympic champions Fiji battling  Argentina, Australia and Samoa. In one of the new changes announced by World Rugby, the top teams from each pool will qualify for the Main Cup semis meaning there will be no Cup quarterfinals in both the Hamilton and Sydney tournaments. This was effected to accommodate the Women's tournament, which will be played concurrently. Teams will be classified based on the three pool matches they will play on the opening day for the tournaments Down Under. Kenya Sevens skipper Andrew Amonde lamented the new format, observing that teams will play fewer matches. "It's very unfortunate. This new format means we will play fewer matches depending on how we perform in the pool. We must be at our best for the next two tournaments if we are to amass as many points as possible,” said Amonde. He remains optimistic of Kenya's chances this season, based on the performances they had in Dubai and Cape Town. “The boys are in good shape. We are determined to do well, having worked on several aspects of our game,” added Amonde. Shujaa resume training today, take a New Year break on December 31 before resuming on January 3.