It is very clear from what is happening that the President is done with Deputy President William Ruto. Why? Interior Ministry is in the Office of the President and all those people including CS Fred Matiangi and commissioners are working under him. They were actually actively involved in mobilising people for Bomas [for launch of BBI report]. There is now way Matiangi can do what he is doing without the consent and authority of the President. Again, the Provincial Administration has not been appearing in Ruto’s events. So, it is all clear that it is Uhuru now speaking. What business, for instance does Matiangi have in Kirinyaga, unless he was there on official duty? So if he is there doing politics accompanied by his PS Karanja Kibicho and the team that is strongly against Ruto, then it tells a lot. However anybody imagining Matiangi will be President will be lying. Ultimately it comes down to numbers. Which numbers does Matiangi have to make him President? On what basis can Uhuru and Raila [Odinga] support him as people insinuate? Matiangi is only being used to cut Ruto down to size. Even the functions that are supposed to be done by the DP like chairing cabinet sub-committees and all that, were given to Matiangi. So he is basically the President’s hatchet man. If Ruto needs a clear message, he got in Bomas and these guys [Matiangi and company] are just reaffirming what happened in Bomas. The President the other day made fan of Ruto having spent a lot of money in the Kibera by-election campaigns. They are simply telling him that he can spend all the money he wants but we have the security apparatus and control the IEBC. So we can still decide that we will not make you the President and that will be the end of the story. Secondly, Uhuru will equally not endorse Raila for President. They will use Raila to destroy Ruto then they can go back to the drawing board and come with a Kikuyu candidate who will be deputised by Gideon Moi. That is where they are headed to. All the rest is hot air. The political analyst spoke to the Star.