Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko has sought to reassure Jevanjee Estate residents there will be no forced evictions to make way for affordable housing. He urged them not to political projects but to focus on development. His comments follow a demonstration at Uhuru Park on Friday by some Jeevanjee residents who denounced what the called "forced evictions" by the county. Last month, the county announced that at least 80 Jevanjee tenants will be relocated as the count begins its Urban Renewal Affordable Housing project. The tenants are to receive a Sh600,000 facilitation fee and a 30-day vacate notice. When the project is complete, they will be able to move back in at the same rent. At least 30 residents have received checks but some residents demonstrated against 'eviction'. Sonko said his administration has "no intention whatsoever" of carrying out alleged forced evictions. He said residents had been invited to county offices for rigorous consultations before an amicable solution was mutually agreed. “The law has been followed in the process of relocating Jevanjee residents through "Notices were served and, above all, compensation/relocation funds of Sh600,000 per tenant were handed over to tenants,” Sonko said. The Governor urged the tenants not to play politics at the expense of development, noting that close to 93 per cent of the residents/tenants have complied and only a few have decided to politicise the matter. He said those behind demonstrations were only seeking sympathy that will impede the county's plan to build more than 30,000 units by the end of next year. "I am humbly appealing to our tenants of Jevanjee to prioritise development and never to be drawn into unnecessary confrontations that will slow down development in our county,” Sonko said. He said relocation will be done humanely and no properties will be lost or destroyed. The county government will provide trucks at no cost to transport residents' furnishings to new houses. Just las in the Phase One Pangani project, Jevanjee residents will get first priority to occupy the ground floor apartments in the new blocks. They will also continue paying their previous rent in a Tenancy Purchase Scheme that will finally enable them to own their homes. (Edited by V. Graham) 