 Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua has welcomed the transfer of Nyeri county commissioner David Kipkemei saying his performance was dismal. But Kipkemei has denied claims of underperformance, saying he was able to impartially deal with political hooliganism in the county. The administrator was moved to Nyeri in March but was on Tuesday transferred to Homa Bay in the same capacity. Kipkemei said Nyeri achieved a lot in terms of security and coordination of government functions since he moved to the region. But Gachagua disagrees. The MP took to his Facebook page where he accused the administrator of presiding ver lawlessness. “He allowed lawfully convened meetings in Nyeri Town to be disrupted by hired goons under the supervision of an elected leader as police watched helplessly,” Gachagua wrote. "Under his watch, police officers were intimidated not to take action against the goons and their leader. The few who dared were transferred to hardship areas.” Gachagua said Kipkemei only talked tough but never acted. The MP said the administrator spent most of his time in meetings threatening his juniors and police commanders who wanted to apply the rule of law according to their training. He said the administrator allowed himself and law enforcement agencies, to be manipulated by a politician to the detriment of the public. “Much as I don't support the reason of his removal, …his exit is most welcome as he was incompetent, clueless and totally compromised in the discharge of his duties.” Gachagua asked the Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai to disregard pressure to transfer officers serving in Nyeri Town subcounty. “I welcome the new county commissioner and urge him to move with speed and restore law and order, uphold the rule of law and tame rogue leaders while eradicating the use of goons to cause mayhem in our beautiful county,” the lawmaker wrote. On Tuesday, Kipkemei told reporters he did his work impartially and that police officers arrested people from both Kieleweke and Tangatanga political grouping following the fracas at Giakanja. On Monday, Nyeri county assembly deputy speaker Samuel Kariuki was taken to court where he faced four charges of assault and malicious damage to property during the Giakanja chaos. Kipkemei said an MP, who he did not name, was summoned to record a statement with the police and that investigations were ongoing. “The PS and the CS were very happy about it and they, in fact, gave us the directive to deal with any criminal gangs,” Kipkemei said. Kipkemei denied intimidating his juniors and security agencies. He also denied claims that police were being intimidated by politicians saying he received no complaints. “It is true we had three incidences of hooliganism and we have dealt with them firmly according to the law,” he said. Kipkemei will be replaced by Loyford Kibaara who was the county commissioner in Wajir. His transfer is said to have been triggered by the manner in which he handled political situations in the county where several political meetings have turned chaotic. Kieleweke and Tangatanga supporters have gone physical on several political meetings. Kipkemei, however, said his transfer was normal and denied it informed by the chaos that transpired at Giakanja High School about two weeks ago. Chaos erupted at Giakanja High School’s gate during an AIPCA church fundraiser attended by Deputy President William Ruto. A day after the fracas, Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu said he had launched a complaint with senior government officials requesting for the transfer of senior security officials over the manner in which they handled the skirmishes. Wambugu said police seemed to have taken political sides.  edited by p. obuya