For the third month in a row, the country continues to experience unprecedented heavy rains that have triggered floods, mudslides and other calamities associated with bad weather. The amount of rainfall that the country has been experiencing in the past three months, has caused a lot of destruction and loss of lives. The forecast from the weather department indicates that the country will continue to receive heavy rains which will be experienced until the end of December 2019. The forecast also shows that the levels of water in rivers across the country are rising and that there are some counties that face serious flooding. The counties currently under imminent threat are Busia, Tana River and Garissa. Masinga area in Machakos is equally threatened. Other counties where vigilance is required include: Lamu, Kwale, Mombasa, Kilifi, Tana River, Taita, Taveta, Mandera, Wajir, Turkana, Garissa, Samburu Isiolo, Marsabit, Makueni, Kitui, Machakos, Embu ,Baringo, West Pokot, Elgeyo Marakwet, Kisumu, Homa Bay, Migori, Siaya, Kisii Trans Nzoia, Busia, Bungoma Meru and Tharaka Nithi. As a government, we are issuing this advisory and those residing in the affected areas to move to safer areas until the situation stabilises. We further urge residents in these regions to take this advisory seriously and take action as advised. The government will continue to monitor the situation and provide the necessary information and assistance. We are providing the necessary relief assistance to help restore the livelihoods of all those affected even as we continue to monitor the situation. About 330 people have so far been adversely affected, 17,000 displaced, 132 lost their lives, an undetermined number marooned and or cut off. Over 11,000 livestock have been swept away. Undetermined acreage of farmland submerged. Crops of unknown value damaged or destroyed. Affected sectors include: Housing, Roads and Bridges, Schools - flooded, Health centers-flooded and access cut off. Farmlands and crops of unknown value have been destroyed while livestock swept away. Sections of water systems are also clogged. A government multi-agency team comprising ministries of health, transport, water is assessing the extent of damage on infrastructure and undertaking repairs. The government in collaboration with other actors including; county governments, the World Food Programme and humanitarian agencies are working to assist the affected communities with food and non-food items. This is the government spokesman's update on the weather situation