The Asset Recovery Agency seeks to have cash in bank accounts and properties of a junior officer at the NYS forfeited to the state. Evans Kundu is one of the 37 suspects charged in May 2018 with conspiracy to defraud the National Youth Service of millions of shillings. According to the agency, Kundu, who was in charge of the mechanical and transport department, acquired the assets through proceeds of crime and looting of public funds. The ARA, through lawyer Jennifer Gitiri, obtained orders stopping Kundu, his wife Sylvia Onguru, daughter Millicent Matingi and their company Mojisola Limited from selling, interfering with or transferring any of the property listed in court. "A preservation order is hereby granted against the respondents, their employees, agents or any other person acting on their behalf from dealing in any manner with the listed property and parcels of land, pending the determination of the suit," Justice Mumbi Ngugi said. She also instructed the chief lands registrar to put a caveat on all parcels owned by Kundu and the director-general of the National Transport and Safety Authority to register a caveat on Kundu's vehicles. Those charged alongside Kundu are former NYS Director-General Richard Ndubai, his deputy Nicholas Ahere and former Youth and Gender Affairs PS Lillian Omollo. Others charged were traders said to have received millions of shillings without making any supplies. They include the Ngirita family from Naivasha, Catherine Mwai, Phylis Njeri, Lucy Wambui, Jeremiah Gichiri and Anne Wambere. An affidavit filed in court by ARA investigator Fredrick Musyoki said the junior officer engaged in money laundering schemes using NYS suppliers to purchase assets on his behalf to hide the sources of the illicit funds. “Our investigations established that the said illicit funds for the purchase of his assets were from NYS suppliers who were paid by the NYS for goods and services not supplied,” Musyoki said. The court heard that Kundu used the names of his wife and daughter to purchase the property to further conceal the scheme. Kundu is also alleged to have conspired with his two brothers to register companies that the NYS awarded Sh17 million contracts without any supply being made. Musyoka added that Kundu used his wife to purchase the 40 acres in Trans Nzoia where they built their palatial home in 2018 while his daughter, Millicent, was the conduit used to purchase a property in Runda. Lawyer Gitiri told the court that at the time of the scandal, Kundu had the authority to incur expenditure as the head of mechanical and transport section. “It was established that he performed several roles in the fraudulent NYS transactions where he signed most of the fraudulent Local Purchase Orders and issued payment vouchers for goods not used or required by his department,” she said. (Edited by F'Orieny)