Ulinzi Warriors are going for a clean sweep when they take on Thunder in the Premier League play-off finals starting tomorrow. The soldiers locked out reigning champions Kenya Ports Authority (KPA) 3-1 in the best of five-game series to set up a finals date with Thunder, who stopped stubborn Emyba. Ulinzi team manager Stephen Bartilol said they are not underrating their opponents but his boys are upbeat as they target to make history. "KPA have always given us problems, stopping our progress to the finals on three occasions. But this time round we did our homework well, enough to eliminate them," said Bartilol. But Bartilol is worried about the double threat posed by national team shooting stars Griffin Ligare and Faheem Juma. "We will have to take care of Ligare and Juma if we have to reclaim the title. They pose the greatest danger," he said. Thunder tactician Collins Gaya who has taken his side to the first-ever finals said the series will all be about matchups. "Ulinzi have strength, are physical and are a good rebounding side. But we will counter them by stopping their transition. We are ready." he said. Thunder is the only side that beat Ulinzi in the regular season. Both giants shared the spoils 1-1. Their other loss came in play offs Game Two against KPA in Mombasa. The soldiers beat Emyba in Game Four with a 77-70 victory while Thunder dimmed Emyba 73-71 in a tight Game Four. Meanwhile, University of Nairobi Terrorists and Lady Bucks are the Division One champions. Terrorists beat Kenyatta University Pirates 65-50 while Lady Bucks were crowned champions after Riara University forfeited Game Four. Riara, who trailed 2-0 after last week's two losses in Kisumu stayed alive with a 46-45 win on Saturday as Liz Atieno provided the winning basket. However, there were allegations that they used an ineligible player. "The matter was brought to my attention after the game and after scrutiny, we gave the game to Lady bucks according to clause 10 of the league rules," said KBF fixtures secretary Joseph Amoko said.