Farmers are likely to get government e-vouchers for subsidised fertiliser so they can buy directly from importers and suppliers. The new system, known as the E-Voucher Subsidised Fertiliser Plan, will be rolled out once stakeholders, including the Agriculture ministry and importers, agree on details. “We have been informed of the e-voucher system to enable farmers to access the subsidised fertiliser instead of waiting for supplies from the NCPB,” director of the Kenya Farmers Association Kipkorir Menjo said. He said farmers and the other stakeholders were still discussing the plan to be launched before March if it is approved. Farmers will still undergo strict vetting to ensure that only genuine growers get The NCPB has been supplying subsidised fertiliser to farmers but last year the government cancelled importation of subsidized fertilizer due to corruption allegations. Farmers were forced to buy from private suppliers at higher prices. Farmers mostly use DAP fertilizer for planting and CAN for top-dressing maize Moiben MP Sila Tiren said the government should have a watertight plan to ensure the subsidy plan succeeds. “We need is a process and a plan that will ensure farmers access subsidies early enough so they can get the fertiliser ahead of the planting season next month,” Tiren said. Meanwhile, regional governments in the North Rift Economic Bloc (Noreb ) have opposed a plan by private millers to purchase maize from farmers through agents. The millers have been asked to buy the produce directly from farmers or they will be compelled to close shop in the region over their failure to comply with the requirement. Speaking to the press in Eldoret, Noreb chairman Jackson Mandago, who is also Uasin Gishu governor, accused the millers of deploying agents in every subcounty of the region. “We will not allow the millers to use brokers so that they frustrate our farmers. They either buy maize directly from farmers or we stop them from operating in this region," Mandago said. He said that counties under Noreb will protect the farming community by ensuring millers do not exploit farmers through agents who buy their produce at throwaway prices. Mandago said the agents who had already flooded markets in the region were offering about Sh2,300 per bag, compared to the average market price of about Sh3,000 per 90kg bag. He said the millers were taking advantage of farmers, who are in dire financial straits, exploiting them through agents by purchasing their produce cheaply. Farmers from Uasin Gishu, Trans Nzoia, Nandi, Elgeyo Marakwet and parts of West Pokot have almost finished harvesting their maize. Heavy rains had delayed harvesting in most areas. Menjo said the maize harvest this season would decline as he downpour has destroyed many crops. “The heavy rains made it difficult for the majority of the farmers to harvest their maize, so the yield this season is projected to drop compared to last season," he said. (Edited by V. Graham)