Traditional education giants in Mombasa soared in the 2019 KCSE exams, largely due to the dramatic improvement in girls' performance. The girls had a much better year than the boys, Qubaa Muslim School principal Leonard Mbalu told the Star. “When you look at the results, the girls have performed better than the boys this year." At Qubaa Muslim School, Asma Mohamed, one of the top performers, said girls had a "secret pact" to knock boys off the academic pedestal. One motivation was the equal number of boys and girls, 30 each, who sat the exam. “We said if we said can be equal in number, then we can equally match or outshine their performance,” Asma said. “We arrived at school early and left late every day,” she said. She scored an A- with 75 points. At Light Academy, the one A plain and 11 A minuses, five candidates were girls. Principal Maika Mwanzori said there was a noticeable extra effort from female teachers and girl students. “Indeed, it was the improvement of the performance of the girls that boosted our overall improved performance,” the principal said. Last year, when the mean score at the school was 8.43, there were only three girls among the top 12. “This year, I believe the girls helped push the mean score to 8.71 because of their improved performance,” Maika said. At the top-performing school in the Coast region, Sheikh Khalifa Bin Zayed Al-Nahyan Secondary and Technical school, half of the top 12 students were girls. The school produced three A plains and a 37 A minuses. At Qubaa Muslim School, there were nine As this year compared to one last year. Of the nine students who scored A minus, at least four were girls, including Aisha Twahir (76 points), Habiba Halkano (76 points), Asma Mohamed (75 points) and Shazmeen Kassam (74 points). Mbalu said the improved performance by the girl candidates may be a major factor in the improved performance of Mombasa schools. The trend is the same countrywide, where girls generally recorded an improved performance compared to boys. Education CS George Magoha, while releasing the results on Wednesday, said girls performed better in English, Kiswahili, German, Kenya Sign Language, CRE, Home Science and Art and Design. In 17 counties, girls outnumbered boys, including Taita Taveta and Kwale. A total of 699,745 candidates sat for the 2019 KCSE exam. (Edited by V. Graham)