The worrying sequence of results that has seen Kariobangi Sharks pick a meagre eight points from a dozen matches in the Kenyan Premier League has not dented their hopes of turning their season around. Sharks, who face title contenders Tusker this afternoon, have won only once this season, against a team below them in the now 17-club top tier — Chemelil Sugar. That's how dire the situation is for William Muluya's charges. Skipper Eric Juma, however, insists the club will pull through this harrowing period if they stick together. He said: "Right now we are not on a good run as a team and we know it. We have been training well since our last match and are looking forward to getting a win against Tusker even though we accept that it is not going to be easy. Tusker will want to continue with their winning run."  said Juma. Despite the torrid form, the Sharks management has not even considered sacking beleaguered coach Muluya. Their form since the final half of last season does not inspire confidence at all. Only time will tell how long club owner and FKF President Nick Mwendwa and chairman Robert Maoga will tolerate this dip in form. Contrariwise, it has not been better for Robert Matano's brewers. The Ruaraka-based side have emerged as the biggest challengers to Gor Mahia's hegemony. Timothy Otieno's form has been behind Tusker's resurgence. However, he and teammates Luke Namanda and Hillary Wandera are likely to be absent should they be named in the final Harambee Stars squad that will leave for the Cecafa Senior Challenge Cup in Uganda today. Sharks too are doubtful over the presence of Samuel Olwande and Dan Sakari for this crucial fixture. The duo too is with the national team. Despite the vote of confidence given to him by the powers that be at the club, Bandari coach Bernard Mwalala knows he is on borrowed time should results not change. The Dockers are enduring a worrying run that has seen them win only once since the campaign started and another defeat at home to Wazito this afternoon will leave Mwalala's reign at the coast untenable. The rumour mill has suggested existing rifts in the technical bench that has trickled down to the playing unit. The onus, however, remains on Mwalala to ensure a harmonious working environment. If he does not, it is his head that will roll first.