After serving as  stand-in coach thrice, Sofapaka have finally confirmed John Baraza as their full time manager for the next three years. Baraza was elevated to the rank of interim coach in November this year following the sacking of his Portuguese boss Divaldo Alves. The club yesterday confirmed that the former striker will fully take charge in the next three seasons. This was the second time the youthful Baraza was serving as stand-in coach having also taken over from Sam Ssimbwa in 2018. He also served in the same capacity in January this year after the exit of  Melis Medo.  Interestingly, the 2009 league champions have been enjoying positive results under Baraza and this season,the trend has continued as they remain unbeaten in the five matches he has been in charge. The club president Elly Kalekwa has been coy of dishing the head coach roles to Baraza but following the rich vein of results under the former Kenyan international,Kalekwa confirmed that he had opted to appoint Baraza on full time basis. Kalekwa said that Baraza had come of age, thanks to the years he had served as an assistant coach and interim manager and tipped the club to regain its fast-fading glory under him. “We decided to settle on Baraza on full time basis for the next three years with an option of renewing it even up to ten years. "In the recent seasons, we did well under his watch and this season we have regained our winning culture under him. "He has gained enough experience for the time he has been an assistant but now we trust he will guide the club to achieve the objectives we have set. We have no plans to bring another coach,” he added. The flamboyant Congolese businessman in the meantime revealed that the club will sign five players during the January transfer window. He said they had already finished negotiations with the players courted before and it's just a matter of time before they put pen on paper. Sofapaka have already parted ways with a similar number of players with Ugandan import Musa Malunda being the surprise casuality. Others are Philiph Muchuma, Cornelius Juma, Derrick Wafula and Timonah Wanyonyi.