Police have released names of three suspects, a week after a terror attack alert was issued in Nairobi. Yesterday, National Police Service shared photos of the three:  Arafat Kyalo Masai, Juma Waziri and Salim Mohamed Ahmed. “Anyone with information of their whereabouts to please contact police on 999, 911, 112 or report to the nearest police station,” Inspector General Hillary Mutyambai said in a statement. Although Mutyambai said the trio are wanted in connection with criminal gangs in Nairobi and Mombasa, two of them have been in police radar in the past for terrorism activities. “They are armed and dangerous,” Mutyambai said. The release of the names comes barely five days after Anti Terror Police Unit (ATPU) issued an intelligence report on possible attack of a hotel in Nairobi. ATPU said the targeted hotel is scheduled to host an NGO meeting which has delegates from Somalia. “It is believed that the casing assignment was done by three young boys one of whom is described as a Christian,” reads part of the brief released on December 25. Following the intel, 10 ATPU officers from Emergency Response Team were dispatched to access the hotel, the report said. While the IG failed to elaborate more details about the three suspects, two of the suspects have been sought in the past over terror related activities in the country. Juma Waziri was among terror suspects who escaped police dragnet after ATPU officers raided a house in Ngombeni, Matuga, Kwale County early last year. Others who escaped include Salim Rashid Mohammed, Rashid Mwatsu aka Mody, Mkauma Ali Mbuiya and Juma Mwengo, according to intelligence reports. During the raid, police recovered lethal paraphernalia used to make explosives, pangas, knives, cables, fertilizers, matchboxes, military trousers and books and notes with religious writings. Also recovered were black flags with white writings resembling the ones used by ISIS, al-Shabaab and Boko Haram terror militants. "We believe these are teaching grounds for terror activities," the then Kwale police boss Tom Odero told the Star. Reports indicate Waziri’s ally Mody was trained in Somalia along with Mahir Khalid Riziki, the thug who blew himself up outside Dusit D2 hotel on January, 2019, during a terror attack that killed 21 people. Mody was killed in August, 2019, in Kwale after neighbors tipped police, with police recovering a loaded Glock Pistol and improvised explosive device-making materials. Waziri might have taken over a criminal gang that was head by Modi in Likoni area after his death. In October 2013, Waziri was also arrested with Aden Mohamed Maalim alias Bashir of Somali origin 38, together and Mohamed Abdalla Kamau alias Raymond by ATPU officers in Garissa. Reports indicate that Maalim, believed to be a top Al Shabaab recruiter, at the time was ferrying Waziri and Kamu to Somalia. Ahmed, mentioned by Mutyambai yesterday, once escaped a police dragnet in Majengo in Mombasa. The reports indicate that he is a sniper and has at one time been in Boni Forest, Lamu. Following the attack reports, an official at the said hotel said: “As a matter of precaution and this is happening in all public places including hotels, we have also heightened our security.” Yesterday, Nairobi police boss Philip Ndolo said that he is not aware of any terror alert. “We have given all hotels and place places including churches adequate security, especially tonight,” he said, adding that, “we have gone a notch higher to make sure people have peace and enough security.”