Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja has said that there is a high probability of a by-election in Nairobi after the arraignment of Governor Mike Sonko on graft charges. Appearing on an interview on K24 on Sunday night, Sakaja said that the governor is facing numerous cases that might see him losing his seat though the process is still complicated. "It is possible to have a by-election. We have seen the MCAs trying to bring an impeachment motion, but I know how convoluted that can be," Sakaja said. He assured Nairobi residents that things will be moving in the right direction with no time as he strives to play his key role as the city's senator. "I want to assure the Nairobians that things will get moving. We must make sure that the county works," Sakaja said. He added that performance does not have anything to do with the individual at the helm but rather the system. "For me, it's not about individuals. It's about structures, its about system, and leadership. That's why the Constitution creates the position of governor, deputy governor, MCAs and the county executives," the senator added. As Sonko's impeachment motion looms, Sakaja said he will listen to the voices of the Nairobians whether to vie for the seat before 2022 general elections. "If the people decide I should go for it I will go for it. It is my Constitutional right. If the people of Nairobi feel that I will serve them better as the governor I will prove it but for now, I am the senator," Sakaja added. Sakaja added that he has raised the issue of absence of the deputy governor in Nairobi before the senate where Sonko appeared at but defended himself that he needed a legal requirement, which was later on passed. The senator has also asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to intervene in the crisis facing Nairobi by addressing the summit of governors to discuss the way forward. He has also expressed his disappointment from the Majority Leader in the Senate Kipchumba Murkomen and Mutula Kilonzo Junior (Makueni) for representing Sonko in court. Last week, Sonko was barred from accessing his office until his pending case of corruption is settled. The Milimani Anti-Corruption court in its ruling on December 11 released him on a cash bail of Sh15 million and set the case to be heard on January 15. The governor is facing a number of charges including misuse of his office that saw the county losing Sh350 million. Sonko is facing charges alongside other 16 people. He denied all the accounts charges read to him before Milimani Law Court magistrate Douglas Ogoti.