@Waithaka06   Collins Mwangi Kiama was among top performers on Wednesday when Education CS George Magoha announced results of the 2019 KCSE exam. The 19-year-old former student of Nanyuki Boys’ High School overcame breathing difficulties occasioned by collapsed lungs to score a B+ (plus) grade. He was in and out of hospital for most days of the year when his colleagues were in class. His condition meant he was using an oxygen concentrator machine for eight hours during the day and Resmed Stellar 150 ventilator machine for six hours at night. In addition, Kiama has to swallow nine different drugs every day, including an inhaler to hang on to life. He has been using the inhaler for the last four years. Kiama's has been a classic case of resilience and determination since he developed the condition in December 2015. His mother Edna Kiama said her son developed pneumonia immediately after he got circumcised. Two years earlier, doctors had established that his heart was on the right side of the chest and not the normal left side. 'The condition worsened after he got circumcised and developed serious pneumonia in December 2015. We took him to hospital and he got admitted," Edna said. That same month, Kiama's lungs collapsed. The condition meant he could not join Utumishi Academy in Gilgil where he was called for secondary education. “After he scored 407 marks out of the possible 500 in KCPE at Nanyuki Boarding Primary School, he was admitted to Utumishi Academy but he could not school at the institution,' Edna told the Star during an interview at his grandfather’s home in Ichuga village in the outskirts of Nanyuki town on Thursday. She said Utumishi Academy principal called his colleague at Nanyuki Boys’ High School requesting the minor be admitted at the institution.  The principal went through Kiama's results and agreed to admit him. he became the first student day-scholar at Nanyuki Boys. Edna said she took her son to school in the morning and picked him up in the evening. He had to exercise for an hour in gym daily to keep fit. Kiama said his teachers and colleagues were very supportive and that in each class he proceeded, a socket would be inserted on the wall in the place he sat because his machine required electrical power to function. “When in hospital, teachers would send me a flash disc with notes that fellow students had learned. I would download them to my tablet and study them," he said. Edna recalled a night she called doctors to her home at 2 am after her son's condition worsened. The Nanyuki town-based businesswoman said she has had to sometime close her work and attend to her son. Kiama has a brother, Calvin Kiama, who will be joining Form 3 next year at Othaya Boys’ High School. His grandfather John Kiama, a former accountant at Laikipia East District commissioner’s office said they have been encouraging the boy to remain steadfast and focused. Kiama's condition has seen him admitted to various hospitals including the Nairobi Women and Kenyatta National Hospital.  edited by p.o