A 55-year-old physically challenged man from Jilore area in Kilifi county who has been bedridden for 16 years got a rare Christmas gift. A good samaritan donated a wheelchair for him to move. Kitsao Kiponda, a father of 10 children, was unable to walk for all those years after he got an accident while tapping palm wine from a coconut tree in 2003. Since then, his wife used to carry him, wash him and feed him with the entire family as he could barely walk or even do any activity. However, he had a reason to smile after Karisa Mulewa a good samaritan through his Karisa Foundation gave him a brand new wheelchair and food as a Christmas gift. He will be able to ride the wheelchair alone or through the support of his wife or children easily. For the first time, Kiponda could afford a smile and revealed that he would be able to go to see the Malindi Salagate Tarmac road . The tarmac road is barely 100 meters from his home but Kiponda has not seen it for the past 16 years as he could not walk and required people to carry him. He told journalists that on November 22, 2003 he got an accident while tapping coconut palm wine and suffered a fractured leg that has not healed to date . Kiponda said after all effort to get medication the leg did not heal and he was bedridden ever since unable to do any activity including bathing, going to the toilet or any work to bring income. ''I am not able to do anything I have to be supported on everything, it's my wife who supports me in everything,'' he said. He said life was unbearable and he was always under stress due to his physical challenge but thanked God for enabling him to be alive and stay strong. He thanked Karisa and his foundation for supporting him with the wheelchair and food as a Christmas gift as he had lost hope in life. ''Now I will be able to go where I want and see the things that I have not seen for many years, '' he said. He called on the government to support him financially to open a business so as to educate his children some of whom are in high school. At a glance, his home shows high levels of poverty, with temporary houses that are leaking while others collapsed . The only hope for the family is for his wife Zawadi Kitsao who does odd jobs in farms to get a living. Kitsao said at one time she wanted to divorce her husband because of his condition due to the challenges at home. ''I am happy for getting the wheelchair together with flour, am grateful for all who planned this early Christmas for my family it will give me relief,'' she said. She said the last 16 years have been tough for her as making ends meet was difficult together with handling the husbands fully. On his part, Karisa said he got the report of the man who was injured many years ago and had not even seen the new tarmac road. .''Today I decided to celebrate Christmas with him to bring him a gift of wheelchair and enable him to move independently or support, he has been through a lot of challenges,'' he said. Karisa said it was sad for a man who is supposed to be the bread winner of the home suffer that way due to his physical challenge without any support . He called on the government and other well-wishers willing to support him come in so as to enable him to educate his children.