President Uhuru Kenyatta has decorated the Building Bridges Initiative committee members with state awards for the distinguished and outstanding services they rendered to the country. In a Gazette Notice dated December 20, Uhuru conferred the BBI taskforce with The Order of the Burning Spear Award; Elder of the Order of the Burning Spear. The award came barely 10 days after the President extended the term of the 14-member task force. Uhuru extended the term of the taskforce after meeting Senator Yusuf Haji-led team together with ODM leader Raila Odinga. The taskforce was gazetted in May last year and was to conclude work within one year. The Haji-led team comprises of Adams Oloo, Agnes Kavindu, Senator Amos Wako, Florence Omose, Saeed Mwanguni, James Matundura, Major John Seii, Bishop Lawi Imathiu, Maison Leshomo, Morompi ole Ronkai, Bishop Peter Njenga, Rose Moseu and retired Archbishop Zecheaus Okoth. The taskforce's joint secretaries, Martin Kimani and Paul Mwangi were also bestowed with the award. The President also awarded Peter Tabichi, the teacher from Keriko Mixed Day Secondary School in Nakuru County who won the 2019 Global Teacher Prize. Tabichi, who was hosted by U.S. President Donald Trump in September, was conferred with The Order of the Burning Spear Award; Moran of the Order of the Burning Spear. The Order of the Golden Heart of Kenya; Elder of the Order of the Golden Heart award went to Justice (Rtd.) Kariuki Paul Kihara and acting National Treasury Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yattani and his Lands counterpart Farida Karoney. The Order of the Golden Heart of Kenya; Moran of the Order of the Golden Heart award was given to Inspector General of Police Hilary Mutyambai and Lt. Gen. Koipaton Walter Raria and Maj. Gen. Ogolla Francis Omondi. Tessie Mudavadi, the wife of ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi got The Order of the Burning Spear; Moran of the Order of the Burning Spear award. Others who received The Order of the Burning Spear; Chief of the Order of the Burning Spear were legislators Kanini Kega, Gladys Wanga, Fatuma Gedi, Millie Odhiambo and Nuh Junet Sheikh. Former Citizen journalist Hussein Mohamed got an MBS recognition. The awards are made by the President upon the advice of a National Honours and Awards Committee in the president's office. Individuals are nominated for awards by district committees, government ministries, religious organisations, non-governmental organisations, individuals and others Those who merit the decoration are persons who exhibit exemplary qualities, or achievements of heroism, patriotism or leadership, those who have made exemplary contribution to the country in the economic, scientific, academic, sports, journalism, business, security or other fields. Others who are considered are State officers or public officers who have made exemplary contribution to the betterment of the national or county governments, the executive, the judiciary, the legislature and persons who have otherwise brought honour, glory or pride to the nation.