Close your eyes and imagine a perfect Christmas coming your way this year. The smell of freshly fried fish, fries, meat, chicken, baked food and fresh flowers surrounding your house in the company of your loved ones. The sight of the Christmas tree with perfectly and well-arranged hung lights with a fire crackling in the living room as the kids play outside in the yard. Most Kenyans start this season as soon as November but the D-day is normally the 25th of December. As this day gets closer, it is time to get all our festive shopping sorted, buy all the foods you require even if we don't have enough money due to the harsh economic times. Many people associate Christmas with eating big and eating foods that you have not had the chance to eat for the better part of the year. But this theory changed when every household was able to afford these foods. But how do you have the best Christmas ever? 1. GET PRIORITIES RIGHT As you enjoy your holiday, avoid turning your Christmas to a 'task to complete'. This is the time you need to bond with family, share gifts, tell stories, exchange ideas of how to grow each other, among others. Remember it is a celebration of Jesus coming to Earth, not how to complete unfinished business. 2. SET A BUDGET If you know exactly how much you are going to spend during this Christmas season, then shopping and buying of gifts become much easier. Don’t feel stressed or pressured by friends and relatives on how much you need to spend. We know you have your in-laws waiting for gifts, parents and even friends, but alas! Live within your means. 3. RELEASE EXPECTATIONS Allow this Christmas season to be what it is without expectations or hopes for perfection. Don't be disappointed when things don’t go as planned. Embrace the reality of life as being part of the season and go along with the flow. Let it take you to its destination, not the other way round. 4. EAT HEALTHY FOOD From Christmas until the New Year, we are faced with an array of delicious, but often fattening and unhealthy food choices. Whenever possible, create simple and healthy meals to keep your eating choices balanced. Expert Hosea Kandagor tells the Star one needs to be careful when eating during this season. "Be wary of what you eat. This season comes with more food and calories. So try and eat healthy. Eat clean, fresh foods if possible," he says. He recommends that people eat Kienyeji foods like managu, kunde and terere. "These foods are healthier than fries, cakes. In fact, if you know who is growing these foods, go to them directly and buy them. Your bucket list of exploring this Christmas will be full," he adds. Kandagor says if eating, do not overeat. "It is not good to disrupt your eating habits because it is the holiday season. Stick to your schedule," he says. 5. BUY GIFTS MINDFULLY Don’t buy a gift just for the sake of having something to give. Buy something that is truly a gift for the recipient, something you yourself can be proud of. If you must give a gift and you are uncertain about what to buy for whom, then give a gift voucher. Avoid that extra stress of anticipating whether they will or won’t like your gift. 6. TAKE A WALK Leave your comfort zone and simply take a walk around your neighbourhood. If you like, do this while carrying a drink in your hands just to celebrate the occasion and leave all your troubles behind. Explore the neighbourhood. If you are in the village, go and greet your relatives in the area and go back to your house later. 7. MAKE CHRISTMAS DAY LAST Instead of ripping into gifts, open them one by one. Most people prefer opening the gifts from the 24th or even the 25th, depending on preferences, but one key thing is don't be in a rush, take your sweet time in opening and enjoying them. Also, enjoy each person’s pleasure of giving and receiving. Light candles, put on music, open gifts as you enjoy your breakfast, laughter, and connection. 8. DO SOMETHING DIFFERENT You could change the venue of your party this season. If you are used to having it in Nairobi, Mombasa, Kisumu... shift it to the village. Go to Kendu bay, Muhoroni, Kakamega, Nyeri. This will enable you to have a Christmas full of activities such as walking. 9. BANISH BOREDOM Find out what activities are going on in your area. This is the time to visit those relatives we were talking about. 10. AND FINALLY, CREATE MEMORIES...