Wiper leader Stephen Kalonzo Musyoka has apologized to Ukambani leaders for declaring support for President Uhuru Kenyatta. Speaking at his Yatta home on Monday, Kalonzo said his declaration during the burial of his father may have angered some of the leaders. "I would like to apologize to all leaders from this region and whom I might have unknowingly wronged due the remarks I make," Kalonzo said. He added; "I want to say that on my side, I have no problem with any particular leader from this region and all I seek is unity of purpose." The former vice president appeared to be directing his comments at Governors Charity Ngilu, Alfred Mutua and Kivutha Kibwana. The three have been holding meeting to chart the region's political future without Kalonzo who has fo long been seen to be Ukambani kingpin. The three did not attend a gathering of Ukambani leaders at Kalonzo's home on Monday. "I had called governor Mutua yesterday and he had said that thought he won't make it for the meeting, he would send his deputy. I wonder whether his deputy is still coming,"Kalonzo said. Kalonzo said that the meeting wasn't meant solely for member of his party but also all leaders both political and religious from across the region. The meeting was aimed to charting a way forward for the community and seeking unity. On BBI, Kalonzo urged all leaders to support the initiative, as unity is paramount in development of any society. He however took issue with the post of Prime Minister as proposed noting that the PM needed to be given more powers in order to execute his roles more effectively. "My opinion is that the Prime minister should have more powers so that he dilutes the extreme powers being enjoyed by the president currently," added the Wiper Party leader. And on Tuesday, speaking at his Karen home, Kalonzo emphasised he was working with Uhuru on matters fighting corruption. "The stand on working with Uhuru still remains as we are aimed on fighting corruption," he said. The Wiper leader also urged parents to take children, especially those who live in urban area, to their grandparents during this festive season. According to him, during this season when Christians are celebrating the birth of Jesus Christ, families should also come together and celebrate one another. "During this holiday when schools are closed, parents should take their young ones upcountry to go celebrate with their grandparents and other family members," urged Kalonzo Kalonzo stated that all residents should be thankful especially for the rains where a bumper harvest is expected in most regions of the country. "The year has ended on a joyful note where many farmers are expecting a bumper harvest, something to be thankful for," Kalonzo said. The South Sudan Special Peace Envoy also thanked all leaders who showed up to his Yatta farm yesterday. "I take this opportunity to thank all leaders who came to Yatta farm yesterday for a consultative meeting aimed ensuring the direction of the party of going for presidency come 2022 is still the same," stated Kalonzo.