Politicians buying Mau Forest evictees land at the forest boundary have been warned not to undermine government efforts to restore the forest. Evictees must stay10km from the forest cutline or they will be removed, officials said. Residents were evicted to allow for the restoration of the water tower and will not be allowed back to their original homes, Rift Valley Regional Commissioner George Natembeya said. The eviction became a political issue with many politicians siding with the illegal settlers. Speaking to the Star on the phone, Natembeya asked why the leaders were buying land so close to the forest "like there isn't enough land elsewhere". “We will not allow the evictees to settle less than 10km from the forest cutline so they desist from the temptations to go back," he said. However, he said, in exceptional cases, individuals will be allowed to buy at least five acres near the forest cutline but not where many families are to be settled. In November, Kalenjin leaders from the region identified 24 acres in Tendwet, Narok South subcounty, where some of the 10,000 families evicted from the Maasai Mau Forest will be temporarily settled. It is reported that a group of leaders raised funds to purchase land to resettle the most vulnerable. Natembeya praised the operation officers for completing the second phase of voluntary eviction successfully "and in a humane manner". “The exercise was carried out very successfully without major incidences reported despite threats from a section of leaders to derail the mission," he said. The administrator said settlers will also be evicted from Marmanet, Embobut and Kaptagat forests. “We are on a mission to regain the lost forest land and will not relent until this happens," he said. He called on the public to take advantage of the rains to plant trees to help reach the required 10 per cent forest cover. About 60,000 people were evicted from the Mau Forest and a reforestation drive was launched with 10 million seedlings. A new aerial seedling spray technology was used on 3,000 hectares where 13 tree species' seeds were sprayed. The first phase of the evictions was completed in 2018; 4,500 hectares that were encroached were reclaimed. The area stretched from Nkoben to Kosia. Edited by R.Wamochie