Bandari team manager Wilson Oburu yesterday raised concerns over the Kenyan Premier League side’s dismal run after losing 1-0 to Tusker at Ruaraka grounds. The loss meant that the dockers have won one in their opening 10 fixtures, a streak of results which heavily contrasts last season’s performance, where they finished as league runners up. Oburu faulted the players for the loss which he noted would have been avoided had the attacking front taken their chances. He hinted of plunging into the transfer market to beef the misfiring forward line. “The dismal run is a concern to us and it even becomes more difficult to prepare the players for the next match. We conceded in a fashion we would not have had players played to our instructions. We also have a problem in taking chances and end up being punished. We have already identified players to bring in January as a way of getting a remedy,” said Oburu. What was supposed to be an entertaining match turned out to be a relatively slow one as the muddy ground seemingly worked against the plans by the two teams, who resorted to long balls. Bandari recorded a handful of early aerial attempts from set-pieces thanks to the centreback duo of Sothenes Idah and Brian Otieno, who watched their efforts to break the deadlock end in the hands of an alert Robert Mboya. With Tusker’s Timothy Otieno enjoying a form of his life, Bandari had to ‘police-mark’ the former Gor Mahia forward, who had a quiet opening half. Otieno, who has seven goals to his name, partnered with South Sudan import David Majak upfront but were kept at a bay by the backline which, against the odds, stood firm despite the absence of Fred Nkata and Felly Mulumba. After a barren first half, experienced midfielder Humphrey Mieno gave Tusker the lead in the 67th minute, firing from close range after Michael Wanyika had punched Otieno’s header his way. Desperate to level matters, Bandari head coach Bernard Mwalala withdrew Benjamin Mosha for Darius Msagha and later brought in Shaban Kenga for Hamisi Mwinyi. The fresh legs breathed life into Bandari’s attacking line which had found the going tough, forcing Tusker to respond where Jackson Macharia came in for the skipper of the day, Michael Madoya. However, the Brewers held till the final whistle to register their sixth win of the season. Coach Robert Matano said the win will inch them closer to leaders and champions Gor Mahia and rallied his charges to maintain the winning rhythm. “We fought hard and I am happy with the win, which moves us closer to the top teams. The league is a marathon and I ask the players to be consistent as we seek to close the gap,” said Matano. In other matches, Western Stima and Sofapaka played to a one all draw at the Moi Stadium, Kisumu while Zoo Kericho thumped debutants Kisumu All Stars 3-0 at the Kericho Green Stadium.