A group of MCA aspirants in Mombasa have formed a movement under which they want keep the Mombasa county government in check. They say the current MCAs have been pocketed and have failed to perform their oversight duty. Led by Furaha Mbuzi, the aspirants, under the banner of Mombasa MCA Aspirants 2022, have already formed a shadow cabinet. “If Governor Hassan Joho cannot appoint a new cabinet, then he should let us do that work,” Khalfan Jilani said. The county has no cabinet at the moment after the expiry of the contracts of the immediate former executive committee members on November 12. Chief officers are now in charge but their contracts will also expire on January 31. Furthermore, there is no County Public Service Board in place, meaning hiring of new workers cannot be done. There has been no substantive county secretary since April. Joab Tumbo has been acting but he was recently replaced with Dennis Lewa, whose hiring about 10 days ago was marred with controversy because of the absence of the board. The previous board’s term expired about a year ago. Speaking on Friday in Mombasa, the MCA aspirants said the county is being governed haphazardly. “This is a county that is very crucial for the development of the country but it is being run poorly,” said Mbuzi, who is eying the Ziwa la Ng’ombe seat. At the same time, the aspirants said they support the Building Bridges Initiative but are concerned about an expanded executive. They said creation of more seats would only burden Kenyan taxpayers more. “What will creation of a Prime Minister position do that will put food on the table for Kenyans?” said Salim Kenga, who is eying Bofu ward in Likoni constituency. “We are ready to support the BBI but there are crucial issues that need to be addressed first,” he said. Kenga said the report has not addressed land at the Coast, yet it is the most emotive and crucial issue that affects the region. "Our leaders at the Coast are only supporting the document for their selfish gains. They are silent on the historical injustices which have not been addressed by the BBI,” Kenga said.