No officer was pickpocketed at Ikanga airstrip during the arrest of Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko on Friday, NPS has confirmed. In a tweet on Sunday, The national police service said the accused officer cannot engage in such an act for he is disciplined and of high integrity. " The video clip doing rounds on social media highlighting what appears to be an act of pickpocketing by a police officer is a misrepresentation of facts and untrue," read the tweet. "Equally, the police command in Voi has confirmed that the officer in question is disciplined and of high integrity." Their sentiments come two days after a clip doing rounds purporting that a junior officer pickpocketed his senior after a scuffle during sonko's arrest. In the clip, the governor is surrounded  by more than 10 officers in some sort of melee where some officers are seen shoving their colleagues aside. Some officers are in traffic policemen duty gear suggesting that the arrest was not effected by a specialised unit. After  Sonko refused to board a police chopper following his arrest,police officers were forced to handcuff him and during the scuffle, the officer pickpockets his senior. The governor was airlifted from Voi to Nairobi, where he was taken to the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission headquarters. Sonko landed at Wilson Airport onboard a police chopper at around 2:30pm Director of Public prosecution Noordin Haji ordered Sonko's arrest early Friday morning, saying there is enough evidence to charge him. During a press conference in Nairobi, Haji announced that the governor would be questioned over the loss of Sh357 million of county funds. "I have ordered for the immediate arrest and arraignment of Sonko and other officials for the crimes of conflict of interest arising from having received money from the county of Nairobi while serving as governor, unlawful acquisition of public property, money laundering and other economic crimes," Haji said. Haji said Sonko and several other City Hall officials to be charged facilitated and/or benefitted from the irregular procurement and payments amounting to Sh357 million. Sonko and the other suspects are facing eight charges including the abuse of office which is contradicting section 48 of the Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Act