Fresh details have emerged how companies associated with Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu benefited from multi-million-shilling contracts from the county, a clear case of conflict of interest. Documents in our possession show that five firms owned by Waititu’s wife Susan Wangari Ndung'u and daughters Monicah Njeri and Diana Wangoko Ndung'u  were the beneficiaries. “If you want anything, go to the county. ... go there and ask. I am not going to comment,” Monica Njeri, the proprietor Modiba Management Services Limited said when we sought her comment. The tenders ranged from garbage collection, transport to construction. Waititu, popularly known as Babayao, is facing Sh580 million graft charges alongside his wife. A court has barred him from office. The governor has been impeached by ward representatives "gross misconduct and abuse of office". Kiambu's first couple did not pick our calls or respond to our texts. Daughter Diana Ndung'u terminated the call immediately this reporter introduced himself. The five Waititu family companies are Bins Management Services Ltd, Connex Logistics Africa Ltd, Beedee Management Services Ltd, Suwanga Limited and Modiba Management Services Ltd. Bins Management Ltd, which is registered under daughter Ruth Mumbi Ndung’u and a Johnson Mwangi Kimani, was paid Sh1.75 million for supplying seven skips on December 7, 2018. It was also paid Sh2.3 million on February 6, 2019, for supplying tyres for two county vehicles and Sh1.7 million on May 31, 2018, for the supply of pipes. In May 2018, the supplied among others first aid kits, gloves and raincoats to the county. It was awarded a tender for Sh32.8 million to supply 100 skips in Karuri, Kikuyu, Thika, Ruiru and Limuru in a World Bank-sponsored project. It accepted the job through a March 6, 2019, letter but rejected it the same day. “Our company shall not undertake the granted subject works due to unavoidable circumstances,” the firm said. Suwanga Ltd is owned by Waitutu’s wife Susan. It was paid Sh3.9 million on January 30, this year, for the construction of Kiambu matatu stage. Connex Logistics Africa Ltd is also owned by Susan. It was registered on February 14, 2018, six months after Waititu became governor. On August 8, 2018, Connex was paid Sh1.5 million for the supply of tyres and another Sh2.4 million for “ the supply of tyres for plant machinery”. Further payments were Sh208,000, Sh913,600 and Sh468,400 on diverse dates for the supply of various goods. Beedee Management Ltd belongs to Diana Wangoko Ndung’u and was registered on November 1, 2017 – three months after her father became governor. Documents show that the firm was paid Sh1.7 million for the supply of seven skips and Sh950,000 for the hire of excavators. Beedee charged the county Sh10,000 per hour for the 95 hours that the excavator worked. Like Beedee, Modiba Ltd was registered on November 1, 2017, and belongs to Waititu’s second daughter Monica Njeri Ndung'u. It was paid Sh874,000 for delivery of tyres. Whistleblowers are said to have sent incriminating documents to the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission which is separately probing a controversial rehabilitation project in Kiambu dubbed Kaa Sober that gobbled up Sh1 billion. Sleuths have also visited several wards in the county, focusing on the number of beneficiaries. The Kaa Sober project was started in February 2018 but controversy ranged over the number of beneficiaries. It is alleged to have had many looting loopholes. EACC money trail shows that part of the Sh221.5 million paid out in the irregular Sh588 million tender was deposited in accounts registered under the governor’s businesses. Saika Two Estate Developers, a firm which the EACC has linked to the governor is said to have received part of the loot. Another company, Bien Venue Hotel received Sh2 million.   