The Ethics and Anti-corruption commission has announced recovery of corruptly acquired assets valued at approximately Sh4.5 billion in the last financial year. Speaking during the International Anti-Corruption Day in Wote town, Makueni county yesterday, the EACC chairman Eliud Wabukala said the agency disrupted possible loss of Sh14.4 billion in the same period. The commission secured 51 convictions for corruption offences. “This achievement is attributed to the courage and dedication by the team at EACC as well as the close collaboration and coordination with other law enforcement agencies in the multi-agency team,” said Wabukala. Wabukhala commended the strong political will from President Uhuru Kenyatta, development partners, religious institutions, civil society organizations and the public in the fight against corruption. He said the partnership was a demonstration of the unity of purpose and a sign of commitment to end the vice. President Kenyatta praised the EACC and its partners for their commitment. In a statement read by ICT Cabinet Secretary Joe Mucheru, the head of state acknowledged the commitment of the EACC, the Judiciary, Director of Public Prosecutions and the Director of Criminal Investigation to contain the vice. “I trust that these commitments are now under implementation in various spaces and platforms and from where I seat, I can confirm that the country has made significant progress and achievements in its anti-corruption agenda,” Uhuru said. The President’s commitment to end graft in the country has seen senior government officials including Cabinet Secretaries and governors prosecuted. Some of the big fish facing corruption charges include former Finance Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich and governors Ferdinand Waititu (Kiambu), Moses Lenolkulal (Samburu ) Mike Sonko (Nairobi). The head of state said the war on corruption requires concerted efforts from all the stakeholders. "It is important all members of the public are moved to the point where the high awareness levels we have today on corruption translate into action against the vice through not participating in corrupt activities,” the President said. He urged Kenyans to volunteer information on corruption incidents and provide statements and evidence in courts of law against suspects. Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana and the county assembly speaker urged leaders at all levels to allow themselves be subjected to accountability by the relevant agencies.