Some 625 police officers engaged in crime between January and October, says a report by the Internal Affairs Unit at Vigilance House, Nairobi. The figure signifies a worrying increase in the number of officers violating the law, instead of enforcing it, hence painting a grim picture on the reform efforts in the service. It means about two cases were reported every day and 62 in a month. In 2018, 488 cases of police crime were reported for the same period, translating into an increase of 137. The officers are all from major units of the service, including the Administration Police, the Kenya Police Service and the Directorate of Criminal Investigations. The offences include collecting bribes as low as Sh50 at roadblocks, hiring out weapons to thugs and colluding with criminals in carjackings, muggings, robbery with violence, kidnapping and drug trafficking. The report highlights a case in which an officer named David Odhiambo was arrested for having numerous police attires at his house in Mihang'o, Nairobi, on October 25. A file at Kayole police station showed that the officer had in his possession a handcuff, 18 maroon AP belts, four AP jungle jackets, six jungle hats, one sleeping bag, seven pairs of jungle trousers and 14 CPL chevrons. Other items included two national and one AP flags, two jungle belts, two pairs of jungle boots, two white belts, one maroon Lanyard and five adapters. Investigations were promptly instituted to establish his motive. It is apparent such officers hire out the items to criminals, hence hampering efforts put in place to combat crime. The report says a number of officers were arrested in connection with claims that they stole money from businessmen and bank ATMs. For instance, three officers were arrested on October 5 for raiding a lodging in Nairobi's Eastleigh and robbing two traders of Sh6 million. Only Sh3.5 million was recovered during their dramatic arrest. One officer escaped and remained on the run. Moreover, at least five officers were arrested in October following a Sh72 million heist at a bank ATM in Westlands, Nairobi, in September. Three officers were arrested in September on the Nairobi-Garissa highway while transporting 245 kilogrammes of bhang from Wajir to Nairobi. The findings reflect those of a survey commissioned by the Independent Policing Oversight Authority (IPOA) that was released in November. The Endline Household-Level Survey by IPOA indicates that incidents of police abuse of power have risen to 46.2 from 30.4 per cent in 2013. The police report, however, indicates that the current percentage is 46.7, meaning nearly half of the respondents have fallen victim to at least one form of police abuse. The IPOA survey was conducted between January and April by Strategic Africa cites police involvement in fraud, brutality, torture and falsification of crime for extortion purposes. It also accuses officers of engaging in sexual coercion and assault and is a poor show of the reform agenda in the service, given the billions used to make the service more accountable. A quarter of the respondents said officers had solicited them for bribes, while 15.1 per cent had been threatened with arrest for nonexistent offences. The report gives a general feeling that police officers use excessive force, misuse their firearms, arrest and beat people just to show authority and power. "This finding was corroborated by key informants' data, which revealed perceptions that the police regularly use excessive force, misuse firearms, falsely accuse individuals of offences with the aim of extortion and collude with gangs to steal or terrorise civilians." The study found that public confidence in the police is on a downward trend. A paltry 28 per cent of those sampled said they can report police abuse. This is a two per cent drop from 30 per cent in 2013. Most of the respondents argued that they would not report such cases as no action would be taken. Another 20.5 per cent, compared to 16.6 per cent in 2013, said they did not report because they were not aware of where to report. "This finding was corroborated by group discussions with participants who said fear of harassment by the police made them dread reporting any case or complaint against members of the force," the report explains. Overall, more than half of the respondents, at 54.2 per cent, believe the police are discharging their duties effectively. This marked a 7.8 per cent drop from the 62 per cent in a similar survey in 2013.