Technology is evolving faster than ever and in 2019, there was a lot of development in Kenya's technology space in Kenya. As we enter the 2020s, the pace of technology and innovation growth will continue to be phenomenal. If you are already feeling that the technology around you is constantly changing, you're right, expect more of it. The fastest development in technology is Artificial Intelligence. Recently AI has taken over tasks ordinarily performed by humans. In April 2019, a JetBlue Airlines passenger in the US narrated on Twitter her encounter with facial recognition check-in. She simply looked at a camera and was allowed into the boarding area without needing to produce her passport or boarding pass. Given the efficiency of automated check-in and the reduced expense in time and manpower, I believe more airlines and airports will adopt facial recognition. In countries such as China, security at entrances to buildings and residential areas is almost fully automated, with cameras picking up access cards’ information and facial features instantly. Closer to home, there is a building in Westlands that is using facial recognition to vet its patrons instead of the usual manual security check with an askari and a body scanner —utilised in virtually all buildings in Kenya.  As security is a serious issue in this because of heinous terrorist attacks, I foresee more building managers incorporating AI into their security checks. Automation has continued to create conveniences in our day-to-day lives and has particularly been embraced in the financial services, popularly referred to as fintech-financial technology. All financial service providers have adopted mobile and internet banking while digital lending has taken the country by storm. A few years ago, you needed to visit your bank’s branch to open an account, transfer cash, or pay bills. Now we can do that from our phones or desktops. In addition, handling of cheques and cash deposits has been automated although most banks have the services within the branches. In 2020 we expect to see more cheque kiosks in various convenient places just like ATMs. Financial service providers are competing to introduce the most efficient and convenient service delivery methods which have often resulted in automation. In short, the banks of the future are here, and we will increasingly not need to interact with bankers for our financial transactions. Recently, the Kenya Civil Aviation Authority announced it will review its policies on the use of unmanned flying vehicles, or drones. As the law stands, use of drones is illegal but if the laws are changed in the coming weeks, we will see drones delivering live footage in journalism and news reporting, in creatives and arts and most certainly, in personal recreational activities. Drones have been used in other countries to deliver medical supplies to remote areas where they save lives. In agriculture, drones can be used to monitor crops, spray crops, irrigate and even plant,  making modern, automated farming more effective. Legalising the use of drones will open up immense opportunities. As the next general election draws near, one thing we need to look out for is deep fake technology, the latest propaganda weapons. A deep fake is video or audio content manipulated to create a desired and targeted message in a way that is undetectable to people viewing or listening. Deep fake technology is advancing so fast that it is almost impossible for a human to tell the difference between authentic and deep faked content. If abused, deep fakes could cause untold damage particularly because the election period is generally emotive and sensitive in Kenya. While tech giants like Google, Twitter, Facebook and Microsoft — the platforms mainly used to reach large audiences in the electioneering period — are taking the threat of deep fakes seriously and are working on systems to detect faked media, it still is a cause for concern. On matters concerning internet access, the 5G network has been a hot topic especially after the falling out between the US government and Huawei, a Chinese firm that has been spearheading the rollout of the network. 5G is the fifth generation in mobile internet connectivity that promises faster downloads of vast volumes of data with peak data rates of up to 20Gbps. 5G supports enhanced network capacity, automation, robotics, human-machine interactions, Internet of Things (IoT) and AI. Downloads of content will be almost instantaneous and video calls hitch less even over long distances. Some key telecom providers intend to test the network in Kenya soon, which if rolled out will change the technology landscape. Finally, cybercrime goes hand in hand with the use of technology and data. Research and studies into cybercrime have shown that cybercrime attacks increase exponentially every year while efforts to secure our transactions and data do not sufficiently keep up. As a result, the chances of being a victim of a cybercrime attack are very high. And cybercrime does not need to be a high-ranking big money incident, it could merely be the theft of your identity by someone who then uses your information to borrow a little money from a digital lender. – The writer is a technology lawyer. (Edited by FMM)