WHEN PRESIDENT UHURU Kenyatta was unveiling the Building Bridges Initiative report two weeks ago at Bomas of Kenya, he announced the end of political formations purporting to campaign for the initiative. The President’s announcement dealt a blow to the anti-Deputy President William Ruto camp who has been receiving funding from a certain government office. With the taps closed, members of the outfit that brings MPs from both Jubilee and the opposition have now resorted to targeting Cabinet Secretaries and PSs who they think are targets of the pro-Ruto Tangatanga faction. They approach them for what they term “protection fee” which is used to organise press conferences. THE TOWERING POWER of a high ranking Cabinet Secretary over his peers played out in the open in a Kajiado County event recently. One of his colleagues, being from the area, arrived early and sat with other guests in a tent. The powerful CS arrived later and walked straight to the pile of guns, surrounded by security guards and officials. After a short while, he returned to his car and rolled up its dark window glass despite seeing his colleague coming to shake his hands. Not to give up, his colleague still approached the car and even knocked the car window on the side where the big man sat. Instead, the CS known for his abrasiveness, ordered his driver to move, leaving his colleague running along with the security details, trying to catch the big man's attention. He swallowed the dust left by the disappearing car before walking back to his tent dejected. KENYANS IN DIASPORA  are a frustrated lot over renewals and applications for new generation passports. Kenyans, especially in the United State, wonder why it takes 3-6 months for the passport application forms to leave Washington DC for Nairobi. The cry is similar to that from other embassies. They want CS Matiang'i to intervene so that they don't undergo so much suffering. The question is why it takes so long to dispatch filled passport application forms to Nairobi for processing? A SENIOR MEMBER  of parliamentary staff is on the spot for making a ridiculous request to junior employees as he inquired about travel arrangements for the East African Community Inter-Parliamentary games in Kampala, Uganda. The staffer was among those to travel to the neighbouring country for the 10th edition of the games. To the surprise of the junior employees, he requested that he be given the money that was paid for the air ticket since he would be going to Kampala by road. He was told that getting the cash was impossible but he insisted that the deal could be worked out for him to get that money.