The death of a woman and her daughter after their car slid off a ferry while crossing the Likoni channel in September exposed the derelict nature of Kenya Ferry Services. The incident, which attracted global attention, set the stage for questions on the safety of the more than 360,000 people who use the vessels daily. A man recently died after his car missed the ramp of a ferry which was setting sail, but the incident was concluded as suicide. Other near-misses and suicides involving people jumping from the vessels’ open decks have also been reported. Committees of the Senate and National Assembly have both concluded that there is all to worry about should the sorry state of the service not be addressed. But underneath the pressure to perform, KFS managers say, are cash constraints limiting their options of running an effective service. The sight and sound of workers banging metals under a tree cannot escape any visitor at KFS headquarters in Likoni. The tree shade serves as a workshop as there is no equipment to run a new one which was put up a few months ago. Workers, therefore, have to lift generators and engines weighing tonnes to the service area for routine maintenance, some breaking their backs in the long run. They also use electrodes to cut metal plates for sealing minor leakages on the ferries which operate across the channel on a 24/7 basis. A spot check by the Star revealed the appalling situation that characterises the daily life of the vessels’ users, including about 6,000 vehicles. Five vessels–MVs Harambee, Kilindini, Nyayo, Kwale, Likoni and the newest Jambo–are in operation at the moment. However, Harambee, Kilindini and Nyayo were delisted from the international maritime classification. KFS has stuck with the 30-year-old vessels as only can they accommodate trucks hauling 40ft containers. MV Kwale can equally hold such vehicles. Staff fear that in the event any of the vessels in operation suffers a hitch, there will be chaos. MV Harambee, the oldest, is the only one that can carry maize and other heavier loads while MV Jambo–acquired in 2017, carries vehicles of below 3ft. MV Kwale currently needs a flap fixed on its prow while Jambo’s engine suffers rampant failures –services whose timelines remain undefined. A section of senior managers who requested anonymity for fear of reprisal cited neglect by the parent Transport ministry. To them, the situation at KFS is no different from the events at the Kenyatta National Hospital, other public health facilities and primary schools. The lot decried poor response to requests for repairs. “The government has no idea of what happens here. This is the most sensitive transport service in this part of the country. We can’t afford delays,” an official said. “Ours is a unique situation since the passenger service is free, hence rely on Exchequer funding. It is hard to work under these circumstances of cash constraints.” Apart from the daily maintenance, the ferries are beyond the two-year period within which they should be dry-docked for a complete overhaul. The service meant to achieve hull integrity costs about Sh100 million and was last done in 2016. MV Harambee and Kilindini engines were replaced. KFS earnings were be supplemented by the National Treasury at the rate of Sh65 for every Sh35 earned by the service, but this was dropped. KFS earnings for 2018-19 was Sh442 million but only received Sh343 million from the Treasury. The funds were gobbled by staff costs, repairs, fuel, oils, filters and general ferry maintenance. “Without cash, only minimal dry docking is done. Staff costs cannot delay. Our desire is to repair the ferries to attain international class,” another official said. Passenger waiting bays, which hold about 11,000 people in an hour, are congested, causing instances of stampedes in case of a delay. Imminent danger also lurks in the face of fuel trucks which risk exploding in the event of a spark, being parked close to the waiting bays. Officials said there is no land available for expansion or building decent sheds as the adjacent ones are owned by private developers. They rooted for multi-level ferry termini to separate passengers from vehicles to avert instances of injuries during the clamour to get on and off. A 2016 turnaround strategy that envisioned a world-class ferry service is gathering dust on the shelves. The Transport ministry agrees that there is a challenge with the cost of repairs but says the grand plan is to abandon the ferry service in the long run. Cabinet Secretary James Macharia said in the time being, if the engines are overhauled on a regular basis, they are still safe to operate. “The question should be whether we did the overhauls or replaced the engines. We are looking at the possibility of decommissioning the old vessels,” he said. He revealed a Sh175-billion plan for a Mombasa Gate Bridge from Mwache to Muteza in phase two of the Dongo Kundu Bypass works. The project, with a five-year timeline, also includes a cable-stayed bridge and a 350-passenger cable cab to decongest the Port of Mombasa. The general view, though, is that ferries will remain inevitable as over 70 per cent of users do not drive. KFS engineers, however, assured that the vessels can only capsize if vehicles are not balanced but cannot sink as feared. They reiterated the need for funds to be released for dry-docking adding that it would be costlier if there is a delay. “People think there is corruption when the costs go up but they fail to acknowledge that the longer you take to repair a vessel, the more it corrodes – especially when it is grounded,” an engineer said. “Even the prows we have been accused of not fixing were damaged by heavy trucks. The flaps were run down and we need the workshop running so that we do proper repairs." There are three ferry shifts running from 4am to 1.30pm to 8.30pm and to 4am–when dangerous cargo and heavy trucks are moved. At least four vessels are needed during the peak hours while only one operates in the early night shift; cargo is only moved when the tide is high as the ramps are steep. Other concerns are that the jetty is small rendering vessels to be docked almost midstream. The busy channel is used by ships heading to the second container terminal (CT2). Three marine attendants have to be on sight to ensure the vessels don’t drift and interfere with the ships. Maurice Khai of operations reported that the agency has currently engaged Red Cross Society officials on a full-time basis even as staff are trained on safety and customer relations. “We believe our operations have improved since there are three ferries within reach any time. The personnel is equally more keen on the safety of users,” he said. The government, in the current supplementary estimates, is bidding to secure Sh3 billion funding for Dongo Kundu Special Economic Zone – part of which will be for KFS. Edited by R.Wamochie