Persons living with disabilities in Nyandarua experience rising cases of gender-based violence especially rape and defilement. Chairperson for people living with disabilities in  Nyandarua Godwin Mugo on Tuesday said authorities have not done much to arrest the situation. Mugo said the courts not only delay but also deny victims justice in some cases. He said some cases are dismissed even after enough evidence is provided in the courts. “We have a 2015 matter which was recently dismissed by the court citing insufficient evidence yet concrete evidence was adduced and the victim positively identified the culprits,” he said. Mugo spoke during the celebrations to mark the International Day for the People Living with Disability held at the deputy county commissioner’s offices in Mirangine subcounty. The chairman said the disabled suffer injustice and stigmatisation because they are poor and week. He said there is another matter currently going on in Nyahururu law courts where rape was substituted for prostitution. He said even the Ol Joro Orok police where the incident happened would have dropped the matter had the leaders not intervened. “Alleging a rape victim was caught in prostitution is the rawest form of oppression against the disabled persons,” Mugo said. Nyandarua Woman Representative Faith Gitau demanded that the authorities do everything to ensure the culprits are brought to book. Gitau said it is unfortunate that despite the perpetrators of the crimes being well known, most of them are roaming the villages with little or nothing being done. “I am aware of a case in Kipipiri where a girl was defiled by a well-known old man but he is yet to be arrested. Such people are beasts who should be rotting in jails waiting upon their God,” she said. She said people living with disabilities should be assured of freedom and security just like other members of society. They should not be raped, defiled and sodomised because they are physically challenged, she said. Nyandarua county First Lady Ann Kimemia said it is incumbent upon all the stakeholders to ensure that people living with disabilities enjoy their dignity. “Deliberate efforts must be taken by everyone concerned to make sure that our brothers and sisters live normal and fulfilling lives,” she said. At the county level, she said, legislation on licensing has adequately catered for the PLWDs. The physical planning department is also encouraging and enforcing disability-friendly building plans, she said. Kimemia said the county government is improving livelihoods for PLWDs across the board, including affording them equal opportunities in government tendering processes. “You are abled differently and it is our collective responsibility to destigmatise disability through empowerment interventions,” she said. She urged the Department of Social Services to set special desks to facilitate PLWDs register companies, self-help groups, and benefit under the cash transfer programme. Severely disabled should always get the first priority in the programme, she said. (edited by O. Owino)