 A man was Monday charged with attacking a waitress with a knife, forcing her to suck his penis, raping her and robbing her of Sh630 from her M-Pesa account. Charles Mbusiro, however, denied the charge before Kibera senior resident magistrate Boaz Ombewa. Mbusiro is accused of raping Angela (not her real name) after forcing her to divert from her gate to a muddy and bushy place in Uthiru within Nairobi on December 4. He was also charged with indecently touching Angela's private parts and robbing her off Sh130 from her porch and Sh600 from her M-Pesa account. A police report said Mbusiro attacked the woman as she was returning from her workplace. “I had left my place of work in Githurai 44 where I work as a waitress and upon reaching Uthiru, I bought some chapati and mayai (eggs) and started walking home. There was an elderly man in front of me,” police report quotes Angela saying. She said it was raining heavily when she was attacked. She said Mbusiro threatened her with a dagger and she decided to cooperate for the sake of her life. “He grabbed me from behind and when I managed to turn and look at him, I realized that he was a stranger. He showed me a knife and told me to either cooperate or face death.” She said the accused then pulled her to a bushy place, raped her and stole her money. “He took me to a bush that was full of maize, beans, nappier grass and forced me to suck his penis, raped me and stole my money,” Angela said. She said the man forced her to undress. He hanged her clothes on an avocado tree. “After he ejaculated, he told me to use my dress to clean my private parts and thereafter chased me away and vowed to kill me if I revealed the matter to anyone.” Angela told police the man ordered her to surrender all the money she had or risk being killed. She said the man ordered her to reveal her M-Pesa account pin number which he used to transfer cash to his mobile phone. He then removed her Simcard from the phone and crushed it with his teeth. “I went home and found my aunt in the house. I was crying and feeling frightened. I narrated to her what had happened and she told me to sleep until the following day when we went and reported the matter to police." Mbusiro denied the claims and asked the court to release him on lenient bond terms. The magistrate granted him a bond of Sh600,000 with surety of the same amount. Ombewa directed the case to proceed on Mach 3 after a mention on December 24.  edited by p. obuya