More than 17 people have died as a result of mudslides caused by the ongoing rains in Makueni county, county commissioner Mohammed Maalim has said. More than 1, 600 people have been displaced from 370 households. Maalim said those affected are from 81 households from Kilungu subcounty. Mbooni West subcounty has been the worst-hit leaving 950 persons of 184 households displaced by the rains, he said. The victims are camping in over six rescue centres in the county. Maalim called upon well-wishers and leaders to come together and donate funds, foodstuffs and other items. Speaking over the weekend in Kibwezi subcounty, the official urged leaders from both county and national governments to help facilitate shelter the victims. The victims have been camping in St Theresia, Tusunini, Katulye, Mitini, Kyangoma in Mbooni West and Matwiku. Early this month, four people died in separate incidents in Makueni following a heavy downpour on Friday night. In the first incident, two people died when the houses they were sleeping in collapsed following a landslide in Kilungu subcounty. Maalim said roads in several areas of the county have also been damaged and bridges swept away. Contractors have been called to the ground to repair them, the administrator said. He said they will need Sh841 million to repair four main roads; Kikoko-Kyambeke, Sultan Amud- Kaliku, Matiliku-Ukia roads. He, however, called on residents to remain calm while help is being sought. "Kyamela drift in Kalamba which has been swept away by floods and requires Sh7.5 million. Kiu-Salama-Nunguni-Kikoko road requires Sh16 million to repair the washouts while Sultan Hamud- Kyambeke road requires two bridges at Kaluku river and Mikuyu," Maalim said. Schools have not been spared by the heavy rains either, the commissioner said, citing 179 that have been left roofless, pit latrines sunk or with cracked walls. He directed the management of the schools to renovate them before learning resumes in January. He urged Kenyans to be extra careful during this rainy season to avert deaths. Edited by R.Wamochie