The General Election is two years away, but almost everybody is politicking, especially Deputy President William Ruto and his critics. Rift Valley farmers, however, want them to focus on agriculture and help them raise their incomes and put food on the table — not spend their time seeking power. They want lower cost of inputs and higher prices for their produce, among other things. They say food production in the new year is likely to fall. The BBI, the possibility of a referendum and with President Uhuru Kenyatta’s succession  will shape politics in the region. DP Ruto aims to ensure that he takes over from President Kenyatta in 2022. “We thank God for keeping Kenya peaceful and united and we pray that the new year comes with even better tidings for the country," Nandi Senator Samson Cherargei said. He says the country faces serious economic challenges that the government must tackle head-on in the new year even has politicking intensifies. “We want to streamline Jubilee as a party and sort out major challenges. We need a stronger jubilee to continue the good development record,"  Cherargei said. The DP's allies want to take control of the party and they are pushing for national party elections in the first six months of the year. The pro-Ruto Tangatanga and pro-Uhuru Kieleweke factions are expected to engage in a gruelling battle to control the part. Cherargei says some party officials, such as secretary general Raphael Tuju, have been a liability to the party and the time has come to streamline it. “Tuju has been acting as if he is secretary general for ODM and we must now have officials dedicated to building Jubilee as an institution," Cherargei said. Soy MP Caleb Kostany, who is Jubilee’s Deputy SG, says the party remains the region's strongest movement but they will make it more efficient. The Ruto allies want the BBI issue — and whether to rework it and hold a referendum — sorted out without subjecting the country to unnecessary costs and divisions. However, Rift Valley residents, especially farmers, want political leaders to deal with issues of declining profits and output. Critics of the DP say they are on the side of the farmers first and foremost. “We must deal with the problems plaguing our farmers for a very long time. We have high levels of poverty, unemployed youth and corruption, " Cheranganyi MP Joshua Kuttuny said. Too much politicking by Ruto's allies have not helped to solve the problems of Kuttuny says they fully support the BBI and want it implemented without self- seeking individuals advancing their personal agendas. Moiben MP Silas Tiren says he will focus on the farmers' agenda in the new year and not politics. “What our people need is food on the table and a better life. The year 2019 has been challenging economically but we thank God for peace and unity." (Edited by V. Graham)