Car owners in the country have criticised new regulations published by the transport regulator demanding trainee drivers to undertake oral, written and practical tests before they are licensed. The new rule demanding drivers sit written tests will disadvantage drivers with little or no formal education, Motorist Association of Kenya says. "Most of those who depend on driving as a career are informal literate, semi-literate and illiterate thus demanding that they pass an 80 per cent mark theory test is condemning them to joblessness," MAK chairperson Peter Murima said on Sunday. The theory-based exams starts next month, when the regulations come to life and will see new and old drivers subjected to academic tests. The new regulations are part of the new requirements adopted in April by National Transport and Safety Authority — the transport regulator— and intends to tame the huge number of accidents in Kenyan roads. NTSA data suggest that over 80 per cent of these accidents result from human error and kill at least 3,000 people every year and is among the highest fatality rates in the world. Traditionally, driver's test comprise a theoretical test of driving in a model or dummy town roads board, supervised by one of the driving supervisors. The trainees then take a practical driving test. However, the changes suggest the trainees be subjected to a written test, practical exams and further, periodic continuous assessment tests. Murima on Sunday said the regulations come to force without public participation and any parliament legislation. NTSA on Sunday said the regulations were in line with the law noting the testing curriculum was long overdue. "The curriculum has been designed to address the different needs of drivers depending on the vehicles they use, as well as a deep understanding of the road rules and regulations," NTSA director general George Njao told the Star on Sunday. Murima describes driving as a hands-on skill that requires years of training, retraining and road experience to master as rather than sit-in exams. “Motorist Association of Kenya holds the view that the curriculum is impractical, far fetched and untenable,” Murima said. The association argues that the government is chasing the wind as training of drivers isn't the problem. Rather, the association pins the troubles facing the public transport system on poor road design, corruption perpetuated by the same government agents in licensing and enforcement. “Unless or until this anomaly is addressed a new driver testing will be just another law and dictate destined to fail," Murima said.