Five hotels in Samburu and Isiolo counties have been marooned by heavy rains, forcing police to use helicopters to rescue tourists. Hotels affected in the two counties are Intrated Safari Lodge, Asnil Lodges, Larsens Camp, Elephant Bedroom and Sarova Shaba Lodges. A combined team of rangers from Isiolo county and disaster committee backed by Kenya Wild Life Service chopper led the evacuation mission. Tourists and other guests were moved to safer grounds after the hotels and camps were flooded. Isiolo county Tourism director Julius Cheptei who coordinated the evacuation said that all the clients were safe and had been transferred to Sarova Shaba and Simba lodges. The disruption of services at tourist class lodges and camps comes a day after the facility was submerged by the rising water levels that had hit up to four feet above the metre. Cheptei said the water had destroyed kitchen utensils and other valuables worth millions of shillings. He said the lodge had been temporarily closed down until further repairs and other necessities were fitted, then it will resume operations. The director said game rangers from Isiolo have been deployed to the areas to provide security. Cheptei said the county disaster management team and other stakeholders will visit the lodges to establish the extent of damage caused. Isiolo Governor Mohamed Kuti advised those living along the Ewaso Nyiro River bank to move to the higher ground to prevent more havoc. The  Ewaso Nyiro River burst its banks, causing flooding in areas nearby. “I am calling on everybody including the herders who live along the season rivers and in flood-prone areas that they vacate to higher grounds to ensure that they are safe following heavy rains experienced in the last two weeks,” the governor said. Kuti said the county and national governments will ensure timely intervention to help those affected and restore normalcy. He said a meeting has been planned to discuss mitigation measures and restoration process for those affected. Transport services were also disrupted in most of the areas after roads were destroyed making it difficult for the locals to access food. Authorities used choppers to deliver food and other items to those affected in some of the affected areas. “It’s terrible that a lot of property has been destroyed by water and road network cut off," Kuti said. He said the river had destroyed crops worth thousands of shillings as herders had turned to farming on the onset of rains. The farmers said they took the opportunity to reap from the rain following the drought but now it has proved to be difficult again. The raging waters from upstream have continued to cause havoc in parts of Upper Eastern. The Kenya Wildlife Service communication department on Tuesday said some of the National Parks' roads have been adversely affected, especially the Amboseli National Park. The Meteorological Department in its seven-day forecast has already asked Kenyans to brace for more rains. Heavy rains have caused havoc in various parts of the country causing massive damages and losses. The rains have caused floods, landslides and displacement of people. Flooding has so far claimed the lives of 118 people countrywide and affected more than 32 counties. (edited by O. Owino)