@Alicewangechi   Hundreds of homes have been flooded and farms submerged after several dams burst in Murang’a county. In Gatanga, homes in Maporomoko estate near Thika town were flooded after Maki Dam waters spilled over. Residents mobilised resources and ferried gravel to fill up part of the road that leads into the estate to stop direct the floodwaters elsewhere. In Maragua, Kirimiri Dam burst its banks and caused serious flooding in farms. The dam is in a private farm and its waters spilled over into another nearby dam causing the latter to also burst its banks and flood nearby farms. According to Paul Murage, the secretary of the technical team formed by Governor Mwangi Wairia and county commissioner Mohamed Barre to inspect rivers and dams, no loss of life has been occasioned by the two dams' spillage. Murage, who is also the county director of meteorological services, said the Mariki Dam in Maragua requires an emergency spillway to reduce the amount of water it holds. “The water is weakening its walls as the spillway is smaller than the water pushing to get out of the dam,” Murage said. Last week, the county government excavated an emergency spillway at Gatoka Dam which had threatened to burst. Murage said the Ndakaini Dam in Gatanga was expected to soon spill its waters following torrential rains. He said the water spill over into Thika and Chania rivers and may cause flooding downstream in Ithanga area. “The design of the dam is safe and cannot allow it to burst so those living adjacent to it are safe. The concern is for those living downstream especially after Thika and Chania rivers converge,” Murage said. He said Ithanga residents were being sensitised on the dangers that may be posed by the spillover. Murage said area deputy county commissioner David Rotich and his team were on the ground establishing homes that may be affected by the spillover and to where they can be relocated. Murage noted that the dam was filling up at the rate of three per cent per day and was already 90.56 per cent full as of Monday morning. It was projected that Ndakaini will be full to the brim by Thursday. In Kahatia village in Kahuro subcounty, 58 people have vacated their homes after their farms started sinking. Murage said the victims were from 12 families whose farms have been rendered inhabitable by earth movements. “Trees and tea bushes have started sinking into the grounds as has happened to some of their houses,” Murage said. Last week, the meteorological department warned that Murang'a was at serious risk of landslides because the soil has reached its maximum moisture absorption capacity. The department said reaching maximum capacity means there will be more water runoff that may result in floods and landslides. The families were being sheltered at Kahatia Primary School and have appealed for help from well-wishers. They also asked the government to reclaim their land and relocate them to safer areas.  edited by peter obuya