Was a governor secretly subdued by his party boss and forced to go slow on his quest for a higher seat come 2022? Corridors of Power is informed that the man, who had started campaigning quietly, has taken a back seat and is now running errands for those who asked him to hold his horses. The fellow was already assembling formidable political machinery for the much-awaited 2022 presidential campaigns before the restless party boss approached him. A bird in the camp says things changed abruptly after a senior politician called on the governor at his office, a meeting that took many hours. Maybe the talk centred around how to share posts in the BBI proposals. A high-ranking official in one of the opposition political parties has become the subject of gossip among other officials over his conduct during party meetings. The man, whose expenses are paid for by the party, is insisting on having his personal assistant sit through serious party meetings to take notes on his behalf. Recently, his colleagues told him off after he insisted the female PA sit in a crucial party organ meeting. The angry colleagues told him they will not have a stranger attend their deliberations. The official coiled his tail and escorted the light-skinned skimpily dressed PA to a car parked outside the venue of the meeting. Has an outlawed sect taken over the running of Ngara bus station, Nairobi? Motorists plying Thika Road and who end their trips at the congested bus stop have lamented that a gang has assumed management of the facility. The gang has closed the exiting from Limuru Road towards Thika Road. It is not clear why Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai's men are yet to take action. The gang is said to be charging Sh100 for every route per matatu and, with most operators completing their trips there because of traffic in town, it could be raking in millions. The annual East Africa Legislative Assembly games underway in Uganda were to be an end-year party for some MPs and Kenya's parliamentary staff who have been active throughout the year. However, there are complaints the games have been hijacked by Parliament cartels. Those who made it to the final list of participants are whispered to be friends, relatives, lovers, concubines and flunkies of senior officials. The biggest beneficiaries are said to be high-ranking officers who decide who attends and who doesn't. Junior staff whose only ticket to the games would have been on merit ended up missing while joyriders smiled all the way to Kampala.