Did a first-term MP from Kisii try to play politics with his life? The MP, a close ally of DP William Ruto, had claimed in one of his Facebook posts that his life was in danger. However, many wondered why he never recorded a statement with the police. As a matter of fact, the MP has of late been conspicuously missing from the DP's political functions, including a recent visit to the county. A close ally of the MP has intimated to some politicians that the MP could have found the ground unreceptive to his camaraderie with Ruto. Is the MP crafting an exit strategy from the Ruto camp? Well, time will tell. *** Just who saved Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko from the jaws of the no-nonsense police officers who had surrounded a Milimani court ready to re-arrest him following his release on bail after pleading not guilty to corruption charges? Well, insiders have disclosed that the plan to arrest the flamboyant city boss and fly him to Voi to face assault charges was thwarted by a top government official, who, ironically, is said to have pushed for his initial arrest. The official is said to have sympathised with Sonko, who had spent four nights in a police cell, and immediately directed top police bosses to spare him. *** A Nyanza MP could soon be in trouble if his constituents make good their threat and petition the EACC to probe him. The residents want an investigation into how their CDF cash has been used. They claim they got a ‘raw deal’ in a recent year-end football tournament organised courtesy of CDF cash. They say that after failing to host the event in the last two years, the MP hurriedly organised one that left a lot to be desired. The participants had to wait for him well past 4.30pm as he had their jerseys. The MP and CDF officials were dressed in expensive sports attire. Upon their arrival, the organisers realised the MP had bought balls meant for volleyball and not football. They had to source other balls from local football clubs. *** Two ODM MPs from neighbouring constituencies in Nyanza nearly exchanged blows in a famous restaurant in Kisumu recently. According to a witness, one of the legislators, a first-timer, approached his colleague and demanded to know why he was reaching out to his competitor, who left the outfit after the 2017 nomination. He held him by the collar and asked him to stop his overtures. But the colleague hit back and warned him to stop working with his enemies or he teaches him political lessons in 2022.