The European Union ambassador on Wednesday commissioned a 21.8km road linking Meru to Tharaka Nithi. EU Ambassador Simon Mordue said the road has a positive impact, including shortening the time taken to access Meru town from four hours to 25 minutes. “The road will enable residents to transport goods with ease and faster. It will enable convenient access to schools, hospitals, markets and promote growth of businesses.  I encourage further investment on maintenance,” he said.  Mordue, however, cautioned road users to respect the weight limit and speed limit. “We have ordered the remaining works on bridges and culverts to be completed by April next year. I will visit Meru then to assess if accomplished,” he said. Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi, who had invited the ambassador, told residents to make proper use of the road. Deputy Governor Titus Ntuchiu said people from areas like Giaki, Gachua and Tharaka Nithi could be cut off during the rainy season. He urged for more funds for similar projects in the county because the county does not have enough resources to implement such projects. Meru county commissioner Allan Machari said the road had given value to land, enhanced inter-county interaction and businesses. Mordue also visited Kiraitu’s flagship project, the Meru Youth Service in Igoji, South Imenti. Youth and Sports executive Koome Miriti said about 600 youths were first taken through paramilitary training and later chose any technical skills course. “Kiraitu’s administration is committed to transform the lives of the youth, the project has been creating jobs, helps in addressing and implementation of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four agenda four and contributes to national and international development goals. Last year cohorts were absorbed into the job market. We need support,” Koome said. The ambassador also visited the Meru Dairy Farmers’ Union milk processing plant, where the union’s CEO Kenneth Gitonga requested the ambassador to support the union with modern machines and other financial aid to educate farmers on the benefits of increasing milk production and value addition. Gitonga said the union’s 53,000 farmers have the capacity to produce about one million litres of milk per day, but they produce only 250,000 litres.  