Radio Africa Group on Friday presented an award to Directorate of Criminal Investigations boss George Kinoti for his exemplary work in fighting graft. The award was presented by Star newspaper head of content Paul Ilado accompanied by Digital editor Oliver Mathenge during the DCI's end of year party at their Kiambu Road headquarters. Ilado said Kinoti and Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji were picked by Radio Africa in its yearly awards to Kenyans who have shown dedication towards ensuring a better society. He said the war on corruption and all other forms of criminality has for a long time targeted the small fish. Ilado said it is unfortunate that Kenya’s prisons are bursting at the seams with mostly petty offenders, while the real looters gorge themselves on the fat of the land unperturbed. "The big fish were untouchable. Their files disappeared or were never acted upon. Anyone attempting to investigate could disappear if they are not bought off. While everyone can see clearly the criminals, there is no way to hold them to account. Witnesses might recant their testimony, or turn up dead," he said. He said the dismal state of affairs made Kinoti and the Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji stand out last year. "For the first time, Kenyans have seen highly influential people hauled before the courts since Kinoti took office in January (last year) and Haji in March. The fearless duo’s sense of purpose has raised the hopes of a nation," he said. Ilado said the zeal with which Kinoti and Haji seized their mandates contrasts sharply with the approach of their predecessors. "Files gathered dust, investigations took a long time and often were shoddy. Many cases were less than water-tight, leading to acquittals. Clearly, Haji and Kinoti are men on a mission to clean up the rot in governance. Their commitment, if sustained, could raise the bar and redefine public service," he said. Ilado said the huge challenge for the duo however remains securing convictions and recovering stolen public money. Kinoti on his sentiments said the entire DCI department is grateful to God for seeing them through this year. "We endeavour to use every moment of the life He gives us to keep our country safe through diligent service to Wananchi", he said. The end year party was aimed at reviewing the DCI progress over the year as well as Strategize for the coming year. It brought together numerous DCI Officers from across the country, civilian staff, officers from other NPS formations, retired DCI officers & invited members of the public. Interior Principal Secretary Karanja Kibicho and the Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai were present.