Mumui residents in Kianjai, Tigania West, have turned to dressing their donkeys with clothes, routinely chasing away unknown insects biting and causing open wounds on the animals. The residents are now appealing to the county and national governments to supply insecticides that will kill the deadly insects that have so far allegedly killed about 40 donkeys. The residents, who now fear for their lives, said the insects first mounts on their animals in numbers and suck blood, leaving an animal emaciated and later it dies. Resident Josphat Kiunga said the insects resemble houseflies. “The fly-like insect is new in this area. We have never seen it anywhere before. Despite us developing methods of covering the donkeys with oil and wearing them clothes, the insect’s beak seems sharp to penetrate the body. We have used insecticides in futility. We ask Governor Kiraitu Murungi’s administration and national government leaders to aid to our call and spray the insects,” he said. Alice Muthoni said they are left poorer and without donkeys to help them fetch water kilometers away. Muthoni said the most affected animals are donkeys, adding they would want public health officers to visit and assess the area and tell them if the diseases if infectious to humans. “We have lost about 40 donkeys. It is as if we are mourning because donkeys have been of great help in fetching house chore duties water from as far as even ten kilometers. In the last one week, 25 donkeys have died. Whenever the insect sucks blood on, it leaves a bleeding wound. When it bites people, it leaves a wound too,” she said. Livestock Executive Carol Mutiga said she was briefed of the insect bites five minutes before the Star's inquiry and so she could not give concrete information. Chief officer Livestock David Mugambi on Tuesday told the Star the insects invade after heavy rains. “When the rains come in excess, they are in huge numbers, they will disappear by end of January when it dries,” he said. He said the insects are in the classe of Tabanids and Stomoxys. He said they can be effectively sprayed with Dominex or Vectocid. Mugambi disputed any deaths and urged farmers to purchase the cost friendly insecticides to control them.