It's time to reflect for the football fraternity as the 2019-2020 Kenyan Premier League season heads into a two-week festive season break with business at half-way stage. The breather granted by the league body in conjunction with Football Kenya Federation will see players, technical bench officials, referees and other stakeholders take stock on how the year has been. In a bid to synchronise their calendar with that of the Confederation of African Football (Caf) and Fifa, FKF opted to squeeze a season between December last year to June this year. This was the genesis of fixture congestion which was cited for a series of career-threatening injuries. The fixture pile-ups helped unearth the sorry state of the few available football pitches in the country. It also exposed the financial deficits in the top-flight clubs and their inability to bankroll their activities without resorting to begging. Administrators have termed 2019 as one of the toughest years in Kenyan football,  thanks to limited finances, the poor state of pitches and crowded fixtures. They argue that despite the financial turmoils, the quality of the top flight has not been watered down and remain optimistic of a change in fortunes come  2020. This year, eight walkovers have been dished out by clubs who have been grappling with empty coffers. The 2006 champions Sony Sugar were expelled from the competition after giving three walkovers which saw them dropped to the second tier from next year. Their neighbours Chemelil Sugar are a walkover away from following suit. Earlier in the year, Mt Kenya United failed to honour two fixtures while Nzoia Sugar also gave one match a wide berth. Among the penalties the clubs faced by then included forfeiting their monthly grants which have not been coming forth this season, thanks to the exit of SportPesa. The gaming firm closed its Kenyan shop in August, citing unfavourable business environment hence leaving record champions Gor Mahia, AFC Leopards, KPL and the Shield Cup without sponsors. Gor's long-serving team manager Jolawi Obondo reckons that had SportPesa been handed the green-light to continue doing business in the country, Sony Sugar would not have been relegated and the league would be running smoothly. Jolawi labelled 2019 as the most turbulent years in KPL and Gor Mahia chairman Ambrose Rachier's tenure and pleaded with the government to aid the struggling clubs. He, however, noted that the quality on the pitch had escalated to another level despite the challenges. "When you see a club like Sony go down, then it shows that the year has been rough. Had SportPesa's licence been renewed then the league would be having a title sponsor who would have channeled grants to enable them honour matches. This is the only year Gor players have gone for four months without salaries but they have continued to depict class. Other teams have been equally stoic in the midst of the struggles," he noted. He added: "The void left by SportPesa is a wake up call for Kenyan football authorities to diversify in as far as sources of income are concerned. We have to look beyond sponsors and walk the path of self reliance." Nzoia Sugar FC chairman Yappets Mokua regretted the losses bedevilling the sugar milling companies for the loss of their key assets. Mokua said the losses derailed their plan to keep the squad intact late last year as outstanding players sought greener pastures elsewhere. "It is a year we would like to forget quickly. We have struggled throughout due to lack of sufficient funds to honour matches and keep promising players around," he said. "Running a club is not child's play but we hope the sugar belt will reap some returns to rekindle the standards of football in clubs who rely on our sugar milling companies. Even with all these challenges, credit to the players from all clubs for entertaining us with some quality displays." For Kariobangi Sharks, what seemed to be a great year after winning the SportPesa Cup in January turned out to be a tough one. Their chairman Robert Maoga attributes this to  lack of facilities and finances. Maoga pleaded with the government to build two-all weather surfaces in Nairobi and in the Western region to fully mitigate the challenge. "We believe in playing attractive football and I can say this year we haven't fully exploited our potentials. We play short passes but with the bad state of our pitches,  we have found the going tough. The year started well for us but that did not last long. We have had salary arrears and pushed ourselves beyond the limits to run the club. All we ask the government is to construct two all-weather playing surface one in Nairobi and the other one in Western," he said