Blazers hockey prodigy Elinah Chebet is banking on her title victory and scoring prowess to win the Female Player of the Year gong during the 7th edition of  the Magharibi Michezo Awards scheduled for Monday at Bungoma Tourist Hotel Chebet was runners up on the scoring charts with Blazers this year. Chebet helped Blazers win their record 22nd title unbeaten in the face of financial challenges bedevilling the club. Despite a slow start to life in the Premier League, the deadly finisher managed seven goals in her first season and her ability to overrun defences made her a secret weapon in the Jos Openda's side. The former St. Cecilia Misikhu Girls player faces competition from former high school teammates in Phanice Teka and Gloria Juma. The duo plays for USIU-A Spartans and Kenyatta University respectively. The former is a defender who helped the students finish second while the latter anchored Titans midfield even though they were relegated to the Super League. Chebet feels her latest achievements with the 10-time African champions should distinguish her from the rest. She said: “It was a good year as we retained the title. I was the second-best lethal striker in the division in only my debut season. I hope to crown the year with the Magharibi award. It won't be easy though because Teka and Juma are equally good while the rest have performed beyond expectations.” Orange Leonas' Sheila Nafula and Miriam Sitna of Lakers are also in the mix. Nafula helped Leonas gain promotion to the Premier League next season after finishing second while Sitna was instrumental to Lakers' fourth-place finish in their maiden campaign. In the men's category, severe competition is expected between Butali's Moses Ademba and Chris Wokila of Greensharks. Ademba guided the sugarmen to their fourth title while Wokila was unmatched with 13 goals that earned him the top scorer award. Tricky Wazalendo midfielder Danstone Barasa, Western Jaguars captain Willis Malesi and David Lihru of Super League side, Bungoma Farmers will also fancy their chances. Arnold Marango who scored 19 goals for Kenya College of Accountancy University KCAU closes the list.