Embu elders have recommended the formation of committees in the counties to enhance the BBi report before a referendum is done. Nyangi Ndiiriri Council of Elders, which has supported the report,  said to hasten the BBi report approval, each county should have a committee that will collect views from residents on the areas that need to be relooked at or reviewed. Speaking in Embu yesterday, the council led by chairman Andrew Ireri, said the report is good but there are several things that need to be added. For example, Ireri cited the judicial officers’ powers and protection from being sued or prosecuted over their commissions and omissions during their work. They said the provision that a judge who errs in the course of his official duties can only be disciplined through the formation of a tribunal has made them very powerful, and some end up doing whatever they want, thus punishing innocent and hapless litigants and suspects. Ireri said on land matters, the judicial officers have been given immense powers to terminate at will any succession case that stays for over 12 months without being prosecuted or being moved for hearing for one reason or another. The elders’ boss claimed over 6,000 such cases have been terminated in Embu county in the last year because the parties lacked money to pursue them or other unavoidable circumstances. “Such issues and more others affecting the people should be added in the BBI report so that it can be fulfilling and satisfying before the final documents can be voted for in a referendum, Ireri said. He said that due to their protection by the law, judicial officers deliberately carry out vengeful rulings and sentences on matters they have interest in and thus such protection should be removed. Ireri at the same time lamented over failure by the government to provide BBI report copies. They further said the BBI report should not be used by anybody to ascend to power in 2022 or serve his or her political goals. Instead, they said, it should enable the Constitution to ensure the common man achieves his or her political, social and economic goals.