Machakos University has partnered with Huawei to offer ICT programmes through a Luban workshop. The Luban workshop is sponsored by the Tianjin City Vocational College from China. ICT Cabinet Secretary Joseph Mucheru said that the facility will help enhance cooperation in the digital space. "Cloud computing and information security which is at the core of the Luban workshop is critical and important for us as a country," Mucheru said. He said Kenya will have a chance to experience world-class cloud computing courses that will shape both thought and practice in the world of ICT. Mucheru spoke during the launch of the workshop on Saturday. Machakos University vice chancellor Lucy Irungu said the Luban workshop will expedite interaction through world-class video conferencing facilities. Irungu said the workshop will also stimulate original research in the field of ICT and related human engagement. "The two institutions, Machakos University and Tianjin City Vocational College have come together for a common goal to offer quality educational and learning experiences necessary for the 21st century and beyond," she said. Minister-counselor of the Chinese embassy in Kenya Zhao Xiyuan said the initiative aims at providing high-end professional and technical skills training to help college students meet requirements of the emerging global market, as demonstrated by the success stories in Asia, Europe and Africa. Zhao said that he hoped the partnership can become a successful model of cooperation between China and Kenya's schools and enterprises. Huawei technologies deputy CEO, Public Affairs Adam Lane said the company has been supporting more than 70 universities in Kenya by offering ICT programmes. Lane said the Luban workshop is the first in Kenya and that Huawei has collaborated with the Tianjin City Vocational College to offer cloud computing, Artificial Intelligence, Internet of Things among other programmes. "Last year we offered routing and switching training but this year we will also launch cloud computing training and AI (artificial intelligence) which is the first one here in Kenya," he said. He added, "We have 30 academies here in Kenya offering AI and Huawei will be donating more equipment to other universities next year." In September 2018, China announced that 10 Luban workshops would be established in Africa to provide vocational skills training for African youth. The first Luban Workshop in Africa was launched in Djibouti in March.