Shujaa have been drawn against Samoa, Australia and Ireland in a tricky pool for the Cape Town Sevens this weekend. Paul Feeney's charges will open their campaign against high-flying Samoa on Friday before facing the Aussies and Ireland on Saturday to wind up their preliminary fixtures. The quarter-finals, semis and final are slated on Sunday. Shujaa picked up a paltry four points from the opening leg in Dubai, losing all three pool fixtures 17-12 to South Africa, 12-5 to England and 22-19 to Spain Kenya redeemed themselves by beating Scotland 26-14 in the classification for 13th and 14th to bag the four points. World Rugby has introduced a new format to the Sevens series with the Challenge Trophy being scrapped. Teams that miss out on the quarterfinals slots will now play one match in the classification fixtures. Previously, under the old forma, teams would have played  three matches in the Challenge Trophy. Shujaa reached the semis in the mother city in 2015 and made the quarterfinals in 2016. The last two years have seen the team fail to make the Main Cup quarters,  finishing 13th overall. Kenya are placed 13th on the log and skipper Andrew Amonde said there is room for improvement after an error-strewn performance in Dubai. "The boys played their hearts out in Dubai but we need to improve on a couple of areas like the decision making. Ball handling also needs to be sharper for the second leg in Cape Town,” added Amonde. Amonde termed the series as competitive. “ Everyone has stepped up and considering we have the Olympics coming next year, we have to be at the top of our game and play 14 minutes of physical and  intense rugby in order to win,” he added Amonde is confident his side will not be in a relegation dogfight this year unlike last year. “The performance was encouraging. Defensively, we are sound we need to execute better in attack and avoid errors,” he added. Pool A: South Africa, USA, Fiji, Japan;  Pool B: New Zealand, Argentina, Canada, Wales;  Pool C: England, France , Spain , Scotland;  Pool D, Samoa, Australia, Kenya and Ireland