The purported line up is obviously a ridiculous one, but let me credit the creative minds involved for attempting to spread the lightweights across the republic which is good. My only concern is they forgot to throw in a name from the Rift Valley. If they are not interested in perpetuating the exclusion narrative, they should consult me because I will not miss a name or two in my phone book from my region to throw in. Let me, first of all, say that I find it difficult to pit the Deputy President William Ruto against an amorphous grouping with no identity. The names that have been mentioned is a conglomerate of individuals; some are civil servants others are political leaders that are by law and in fact different political parties. It will be much easier and sensible to discuss individuals who are representative of the current political formations recognized by law; more particularly Jubilee and NASA factions. I am also at pains to debate the proposed line up three years to the election when we should be focusing on the Big Four Agenda. The dynasties have tried all they can to undermine the DP, but that has not worked at all, they have been beaten hands down. Even with the latest line-up - which I know has been creatively manufactured by one of the people interested in the position of Prime Minister - will not work. But assuming the line up shall be so when the right time comes then the Deputy President shall have a walkover. The reason is simple. Kenyans are an enlightened lot that nowadays they make decisions based on proven track records, not empty rhetoric. Kenyans will have reservations on anybody involved in corruption. Kenyans will not give attention to a county boss who mismanaged a county and only found solace in a cabinet position which has zero merit consideration. When the right time comes Kenyans will not forget an individual who gave them the highest maize prices or who overhauled a higher education or who championed the opening up of hundreds of middle-level colleges across the country. For now we hold our horses, but when the right time comes, we shall be open for debate. The Belgut MP spoke to the Star 