Former Machakos Senator Johnstone Muthama has declared that he is now the Ukambani region political kingpin. Muthama faulted Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka for misleading the Community after he announced his undying support to President Uhuru Kenyatta even beyond 2022. The former Senator, who recently said that DP William Ruto is best suited to succeed Uhuru, accused Kalonzo of auctioning the region for his own political ambitions. "Kalonzo’s remarks that we shouldn’t strategize on how we are going to get at the top leadership of this country as the Kamba nation is absurd. It declares his selfish interest and they don’t include us in his ambitions," said Muthama. He spoke during a Christmas service at the Light Christian Centre in Machakos town. Muthama declared himself new kingpin, saying he is working on an outfit that will catapult the region to greater political heights. The outspoken senator said he will lead the Kamba nation in fighting for a presidential position in the coming general elections. “I will hold a public meeting mid-January and form a taskforce that will move across the three counties of Ukambani to register voters. We are targeting more than 3 million voters before the general election," he said. To realize this, he said, he is reaching out to other national leaders, including Deputy President William Ruto, in a bid to elevate the Kamba people politically. "Kalonzo’s remarks implied failure and we still have several attempts remaining to get the presidential seat. We have several able leaders who can take over the position," Muthama said. He promised to also involve ANC’s Musalia Mudavadi and Ford Kenya’s Moses Wetangula in settling on a possible presidential candidate. Muthama faulted Kalonzo for ruining his past friendships with the former Presidents Daniel Moi and Mwai Kibaki as well as Uhuru. He said this happened because he chose to firmly stand with Kalonzo in his presidential bids during the past general elections. Muthama added that Kalonzo should demand that ODM leader Raila Odinga honours their previous pacts and support the Wiper leader's 2022 bid. Ironically, his remarks come a few weeks after he vowed to form a pre-2022 alliance between Kalonzo and Ruto, whom he said can deliver the presidency if they worked together. On Monday speaking at his Yatta home, Kalonzo said that he would support whichever succession plan that Uhuru had put in place for 2022. "I made it clear and I repeat for the affordance of doubt, I said where President Uhuru Kenyatta will be in the next election circle, I will be there with Him. We must be in the next government," Kalonzo said. Earlier in December, Kalonzo was forced to issue a statement, refuting allegations that he was in talks with DP Ruto on the possibility of forming an alliance before 2022. The allegations had been fueled by Muthama who claimed that he was ready to mediate a working formula between Kalonzo and DP Ruto.