National Super League first round comes to an end this weekend with runway leaders Nairobi City Stars seeking maintain unbeaten run when they host Kibera Black Stars at Camp Toyoyo. A whooping 30 points separates the two teams as Nairobi City Stars top the 19-team NSL with 43 points and Kibera Black Stars are 16th on 13 points. The winner of the game will win the newly introduced Community Cup dubbed the JJF Jamii Cup. Musalia Mwenesi, the JJF CEO  said: “JJF Jamii Cup is aimed at raising competitiveness of both sides as a Nairobi City Stars and Kibera Black Stars match is a derby in its own right.” “In this initiative, we are floating a Cup for the winner to be accompanied with a Sh20,000 cash prize. The losing team will walk away with Sh10,000. The MVP on either side will receive a pair of football boots,”he said. Nairobi Stima will have a tricky away trip to Mbaraki Sports Club, where the power men will face on-form Coast Stima while third-placed Bidco United welcome Fortune Sacco at Thika Stadium. Last weekend, Stima and Bidco battled to a barren draw in Naivasha and will hope to end the first leg with wins. At Awendo Green Stadium, Migori Youth hope to return to winning ways when they host Vihiga Bullets with Ushuru welcoming Kenya Police at Camp Toyoyo. On Sunday, Ken Kenyatta’s FC Talanta will host struggling Shabana with interim coach Vincent Nyaberi seeking to end the league on a winning note. “It will be good for us to win our last game because I’m targeting the top eight positions,” said Nyaberi who took over from Andrew Kanuli who has been absent for the last two weeks. Nyaberi hopes Victor Matete, Fred Nyakundi, Dennis Onyancha and Philbert Ochieng will shake off injuries ahead of tomorrow’s encounter. Nyakundi scored a hat-trick on his debut last weekend in the team’s 3-2 win over Migori Youth. Murangá Seal battles Administration Police at Thika Stadium with Vihiga United and Mt Kenya United facing off at Mumias Sports Complex . Modern Coast Rangers and St Joseph’s Youth will square it off at Serani Sports Complex. 