 Two brothers accused of murdering Star journalist Eric Oloo have been remanded until January 20 next year when the court will rule on their bond application. Joel Ogola Luta and Victor Ogola Luta pleaded not guilty to the charges of murder before Siaya High Court judge Roseline Aburili on Thursday. The two were arraigned, a day after the plea taking was deferred to enable Joel to seek medication. The accused had told the court had refused to take a plea, saying he was too sick and requested to be taken to hospital. Justice Aburili ordered that he be taken to Siaya County Referral Hospital and be produced for plea taking the following day. Court papers showed the brothers killed Eric Oloo in Nyabeda village, in West Uholo location, Ugunja constituency within Siaya county on November 21. The brothers are represented by state-appointed attorneys, Brian Ochano and Godrick Okello while state counsel David Okach will lead the prosecution team. Ochano took over from Rowela Ndeda who excused herself, saying she had learned that she was related to the slain journalist. During the pre-trial on Thursday, Aburili told Joel not to panic and feign sickness in court. The judge said the court was out to dispense justice both to them and the family of the deceased. Justice Aburili said the matter could be heard and dispensed with within three days if the prosecution and investigating officer bond their witnesses. On assurance from Okach that the witnesses will be availed, the judge ordered that the matter be heard for three consecutive days from March 23 next year. The court ordered a probation report to be prepared on whether the brothers could be released on bail pending the hearing. The two brothers were arrested a month ago following the murder of Oloo who was working with the Star. Oloo's body was found lying on a bed inside a house she shared with police chief inspector Sabina Kerubo. The officer is attached to Ugunja police station. Oloo and Sabina were cohabiting. Kerubo was also arrested and arraigned before a Siaya principal magistrate's court over the murder but was later released after police informed the court they intended to use her as a prosecution witness.  edited by p.o