The Agricultural Finance Corporation is considering scrapping land as collateral for loans in a bid to increase women's access to the funds, an official has said. Crop Development Principal Secretary Hamadi Boga on Friday said the government wants to increase access to the fund for all growers. A report by the Kenya Institute for Public Policy Research and Analysis (Kippra) says women only make up for 25 per cent of the total Agricultural Finance Corporation loan book despite being the largest workforce in agriculture. “Although agriculture is responsible for 34 per cent of GDP in production, only three percent goes to commercial lending in agriculture as it is deemed risky,” Boga said during the launch of the report in Nairobi. The PS said they have put up a team to restructure AFC by engaging partners to raise access to funds by 10 or even 15 per cent. He said Treasury had started the discussions. The PS said the ministry has set aside Sh2 billion to be invested in an e-voucher system in 11 counties to improve crop yields. The funds will be used in soil testing, seeds, fertiliser and lime agrochemicals. AFC managing director Lucas Messo said they need Sh20 billion to effectively lend farmers money. He says the corporation currently has loan requests amounting to Sh10 billion from farmers. "However, we can only lend Sh3 billion due to inadequate funds," Messo said. AFC chairman Franklin Bett said the corporation was in the final stage of transforming into a commercial bank to attract more financing and increase its lending capacity. Food and Agriculture Authority (FAO) Country representative Tobias Takavarasha said the statistics and evidence about women’s situation will help in making decisions for correct interventions. "This study will show us the challenges that women are facing, where they are in terms of location and how to intervene especially on access to finance,” he said. Takavarasha said lack of collateral knowledge and information was a major challenge for the women, yet they are highly productive and often pay back their loans. “This study will help us shape our policy directing it in our project and making sure we come up with interventions that address the issues of women in the financing,” he said. Myra Bernadi from the European Union said the report gave real data on women’s access to finance in rural areas 