Eldoret police are investigating the death of a Moi University student found hanging from the roof in a lecture room. His hands were in front of him tied with a rope. It was not established if the Japheth Mwaniki, a second-year microbiology student, committed suicide or was murdered. The bizarre death and the aspect of the tied hands caused panic among students and staff at the main campus near Kesses market. The body was found on Sunday. Monica Mungai, Japheth's mother, said she learnt of her son's death through pictures of the hanging body posted on social media. “This is so devastating to my family. We are shocked beyond belief by with the manner in which my son died. I brought him to this university to learn and hoped for the best but now I have come to take his body back home," she said, weeping. Initial police investigations indicate that the student may have committed suicide but the family has disputed that theory, questioning why the body was hanging with both hands tied in front. “We demand proper investigations because it not possible that he hanged himself with his hands tied with another rope," his mother said. She said the university had not told the family about the death and the body was kept in a refrigerated container at the Moi Referral Hospital, which is used to store unidentified bodies. “He was in the hands of the university and died within the university but no one is communicating with us. There is something wrong," Monica said. A postmortem examination was to perform on Tuesday before transportation to Nyandarua for burial. “The incident is under investigations and we are waiting for completion to know exactly what happened," Eldoret police chief Johnstone Ipara said. The student went missing last Friday, only for his body to be found dangling in the lecture room that has not been in use for some time. University vice chancellor Professor Isaac Kosgey could not be reached for comment as his mobile phone was turned off.  There have been serious security concerns at the university where three student deaths have been reported in the past year. “We have been raising concerns about insecurity within and around the university but the management hasn’t been serious in dealing with the problem yet we are losing our colleagues in ways that can’t be explained," student Caleb Oloo said. (Edited by V. Graham)