The government now wants the court to declare as unconstitutional the Parliamentary Service Commission's decision to award MPs a house allowance of Sh250,000. In submissions to court, the Attorney General argues the decision is against the law and an exercise of powers of Parliament in a manner that violates the Constitution. Justices Pauline Nyamweya, Weldon Korir and John Mativo are hearing the case. “In our considered view, we submit that the above powers and functions can only be exercised by the commission in conformity with the Constitution and the statute. Therefore there is no other state organ or commission that can operate outside the parameters set by the Constitution as far as the powers of the SRC are concerned,” the petition says. The state maintains that no money can be paid out of public funds to cater for remuneration and benefit of state officers and public officers without the advice and approval of Salaries and Remuneration Commission. “The roles of the SRC as enshrined in the Constitution and the SRC Act No. of 2011, i.e the mandate of setting and regularly reviewing the remuneration and benefits of all state officers and advising national and county governments on the remuneration and benefits of all other public officers, are clearly defined and not ambiguous” the AG says. The state says the Constitution includes limits Parliament's power in determining its members' remuneration. Since Parliament, and especially the National Assembly, controls the country’s purse strings and can pass appropriation and financial bills, it has the most direct control and influence over members’ salaries and allowances. The SRC and activist Okiya Omtatah have sued the PSC for paying the MPs a house allowance without SRC's approval. The court temporarily issued orders stopping furher payments of the house allowances to the MPs until the case is heard and determined. SRC argues the payments will cost taxpayers an additional Sh104 million monthly or Sh1.2 billion annually.