Two people have died as eight others were rescued when a six-storey building collapsed in Tassia Embakasi. Several other occupants of the building were trapped under the rubble in the  Friday morning incident. Nairobi regional commissioner Wilson Njega said the two deaths had been confirmed by 1.30pm on Friday. Njega said the eight who had been rescued were rushed to Mama Lucy Kibaki Hospital. The bodies were taken to City Mortuary. He said that a rescue team arrived at the scene on time and that the operation led by the Kenya Defence Forces was going on well. Nyega said the collapsed building had 57 houses comprising single rooms and bedsitters. Public Works PS Gordon Kihalangwa said they will crack down on all buildings that have not met the construction authority standards. Embakasi East MP Babu Owino visited the scene and lauded the reinforcement by the government and the work of the KDF officers. Owino said it was sad the building may not have been built according to the guidelines set by the National Construction Authority(NCA). The legislator condoled with the victims, saying he will make sure correct measures are put in place to curb the incidents. The legislator said there were reports that many of the tenants had been told by word of mouth to vacate the building. In fact, many had moved out, leaving only 25 occupants before it collapsed. But Survivors denied receiving any warnings to move out of the building. Fred Onyango who lived in a single room with his brother in the building said they had lost everything. "We left the house around 4am to go and hustle at Industrial Area.  While there, we received a phone call at around 10am that our building had collapsed. We left our workplace without being paid," Onyango said. Onyango paid house rent of sh2500. On Thursday night, Onyango noticed the door was not closing well and thought it was because of the rains. He did not think that it was a warning of a structural defect. Anyango, another survivor, was lost for words because she feared her four-year-old daughter was trapped in the building. Anyango said that the girl had gone to check on friends in the building and play with them when to her horror, the building collapsed. "That was my only child and I even regret letting her leave the house. I had come from the village to visit husband in Nairobi,” she told the Star. Another person whose sister is missing said she tried reaching her but her phone was off prompting her to visit the scene. “I am so worried that my sister, her husband and their three children may be already dead in the building and I'm just hopeless,” she added. Rachel, a KDF officer whose three cousins are missing since the tragedy said all their phones were not going through. They are also not in any of the hospitals the victims were taken to.