The national government has started a project that will safeguard its information and data from fraud and other criminal activities. The Metro Network County Internet Connectivity is undertaken in national government institutions through the Ministry of Information, Communication Technology. The project involves the use of internet and computers which are connected for sharing records and other relevant information for faster communication. Internet record-keeping process will prevent displacement of files among other documents in government institutions like courts and police stations. ICT Principal Secretary Jerome Ochieng on Friday said the new system will facilitate the tracking of data from one institution to another and avoid their loss. This will prevent suspects from using dubious means to avoid being charged. The PS spoke when he commissioned the project in Homa Bay where he said the government has begun implementing the project in level 4 and 5 hospitals. The government will have a national server for record-keeping and online transfers, he said. “Records would no longer disappear in police station and courts. For example, information about a suspect at the police station would be transferred to the court, then to the correctional facility through the internet." Other institutions include police stations, Huduma Centres, information offices and prisons among others. Present were Homa Bay Referral Hospital CEO Lillian Kachola, Homa Bay deputy police commander Samuel Obara and DCC Joseph Ng’eny. The PS said the project would help in surgeries and other medical procedures. “Doctors in local hospitals will use telemedicine technology in surgeries that would have otherwise be performed at major health facilities,” he added. In the new health system, doctors from local hospitals will use monitors to communicate with other specialists performing surgeries. Ochieng urged higher learning institutions to offer courses on internet security to avoid cybercrime. He said the courses should be relevant in safeguarding data and information flow. “Higher learning institutions have a challenge of offering courses that are relevant to the job market in the wake of the fast-evolving technological advancement,” he said. He told youths to utilise the internet infrastructure put up by the government to come up with innovative ways of creating employment for themselves. Kachola said the referral of patients from Homa Bay hospitals for surgeries will be reduced. She said this would prevent deaths that occur when they are transferred in ambulances. “Our doctors will also have an opportunity to learn new ways of performing operations,” she said. Obara said digitisation of data would speed up the processing of cases in courts. Edited by R.Wamochie