Lamu police in have denied the involvement of al Shabaab terrorists in the recent murder of two administrators in Mbwajumwali, Lamu East. Mbwajumwali chief Mohamed Famau, 45, and Myabogi sub-location assistant chief Athman Shee, 43, were slashed to death in their office by unknown assailants on the afternoon of December 11. The two were accosted by two attackers who were wearing buibui–an item of clothing for Islamic women–and had their faces covered with veils. They slashed them to death in what police have termed as a daring attack never witnessed before in the region. The attackers later fled into a nearby forest. Several media reports had indicated that the duo was killed by al Shabaab militants from Somalia. County commissioner Irungu Macharia has, however, stated that the militants were not behind the killings but rather the local community in Mbwajumwali. “Even if they were to be involved, they would still be from the local community and not from Somalia. We all know these killings were orchestrated by drug dealers and that’s why we are calling on the public to help us catch them,” Macharia said. The county commissioner promised speedy and extraordinary investigations into the killings. “People are used to being police saying investigations are ongoing whenever a crime occurs. This time around the investigations will be uncommon. We are calling on locals, religious and political leaders and activists to join us in getting to the bottom of this matter,” he said. Macharia said their biggest lead revolved around a number of drug barons. He said investigations were underway and that police were closely following on the leads. The commissioner said the execution of the two in broad daylight was a well calculated and planned execution and that detectives were working round the clock to capture those involved. The two administrators were buried at the Mbwajumwali cemetery last week on Thursday. Famau left behind a widow and four children while Shee left a widow and five children. Edited by R.Wamochie