Kenya’s chase for the 2020 Youth under 16 chess Olympiad ticket will go to the wire today as the curtains come down on the Africa Zone 4.4 showpiece at the Luke Hotel in Nairobi. Uganda have maintained the lead unbeaten after five rounds with 15 points as Kenya’s Stormy Knights trail them with 10 in the second position. The tournament is being played on a seven-round Swiss System for teams format hence all the lineups play their two remaining matches today. Uganda meet sixth-placed Tanzania as Stormy Knights have an encounter with Nacha Sports Academy (fourth) this morning after which their last opponents will be determined. The hosts had fielded nine teams with two being last minute entries in a bid to increase their chances of securing the sole berth to the world event as revealed by Chess Kenya president Bernard Wanjala. However, the country has found itself in a tricky position. Stormy Knights’ coach Joseph Methu said his charges must win both matches if they are to secure a slot at the Youth U-16 Olympiad. He said he willl give each player tips on how to approach and corner their pairing if they are to rake in maximum points. The top-ranked home team will be hoping that Uganda either share spoils in the two ties or pick a draw and a loss for them to emerge victoriously. “We have no other option but to win both our matches tomorrow (today) and pray that things to go down south for Uganda. We are in a tricky situation. For now, I am having individual sessions with each player to know how to tackle each of their opponent (one-on-one),” said Methu. Uganda beat Kenyan sides including Makini Sports Academy (MSA) 1, Tritonite Stars, Nacha, Stormy Knights and Kenya’s top seed Blitzkrieg to go top. On their efforts, Stormy Knights thwarted Membley Titans, South Sudan and Tanzania, drew against Blitzkrieg and lost to Uganda. Third-placed MSA 1 play Blitzkrieg (fifth), South Sudan meets MSA 2, Tritonite Stars invite Membley Titans as Kifaru face bottom of the table MSA 3.