Caroline Khasoa on Monday took the oath of office as a member of the Kimilili Municipality Board. She was nominated to the board by the Law Society of Kenya as a representative of the Association of Professional Societies of East Africa (APSEA). The nomination of Khasoa brings to five the number of board members. Initially, the board had seven members who took the oath of office in August, but three were dropped for failing to meet the required threshold. Those who were sworn in in August as board members were Martin Makokha, Makhapila Mwangale, Catherine Namalwa, Salome Bukania, John Tengeye, Lillian Simiyu and Joseph Mulama. However Makokha, Namalwa and Mwangale were dropped because they did not meet the threshold of Urban Areas and Cities Act. For one to qualify to be a board member of a municipality, they must have a minimum of a diploma, which they lacked. This left the board with only four members. Khasoa was then nominated to fill the gap. The board will be inaugurated on December 17, 2019. Bungoma assembly clerk John Mosongo on Monday lauded Khasoa for the nomination, saying she had earlier tried unsuccessfully to serve the county, but she never gave up. Khasoa is an advocate of the High Court with 17 years in private practice. She has specialised in governance, human rights and land management. Khasoa was admitted to the bar in 2002. She comes from Maeni ward in Kimilili constituency. Kimilili is one of the two municipalities already established in Bungoma. The county has also started the process of transforming Webuye and Chwele into municipalities. It is also expanding Bungoma Municipality to cover Musikoma, Kabula, Tuuti Marakaru, Bukembe West, Sang’alo West, South Bukusu and West Bukusu. An ad hoc constituted by Transport Cabinet Secretary James Macharia is also looking into the governor’s proposal to have Kimilili Municipality cover Kibingei, Maeni and Kamukuywa wards, besides Kimilili ward. Khasoa said that members of the Kimilili Municipality Board will work with all stakeholders to improve infrastructure. She said together with the other board members who were sworn in in August, they will turn Kimilili into a modern town. Khasoa said they will work with other leaders, agencies, and residents to improve the town. She said Kimilili has a myriad of challenges, but they will prioritise bus park sheds, floodlights and markets to support a 24-hour economy. They will come up with an integrated development plan and a strategic plan, a solid waste management system and a beautification drive for the town. Kimilili and Bungoma towns are beneficiaries of Sh300 million World Bank funding under the Kenya Urban Support Programme. Kimilili bagged Sh190 million and Bungoma Sh110 million for the upgrade of roads, markets, bus parks, and social amenities. Bungoma has also received a Sh1 billion grant from the UK under Sustainable Urban Economic Development. It will be managed through the UK Department for International Development for five years.  