The United States government will boost fish production in Kenya by investing in the sector, Ambassador Kyle McCarter has said. McCarter said more American investors will come to Kenya, especially Homa Bay, to boost fish production. “Kenya has the capacity of producing hundreds of thousand tonnes of fish but this has not been achieved. We are going to talk to American investors to come and invest in this sector,” McCarter said. He said Kenya has a capacity to produce at least 400,000 tonnes of fish but currently produces only 24,000 tonnes. Homa Bay county has more than 60 per cent of Kenya's section of Lake Victoria. McCarter spoke in Homa Bay when he paid a courtesy to call Governor Cyprian Awiti and his Deputy Hamilton Orata at the county headquarters. The envoy said American investor Victory Farm is already doing cage fish farming in Lake Victoria. The investor operates in the lake in Sindo, Suba South constituency. McCarter said they will continue supporting health services in Homa Bay. The US supports several health projects through various NGOs in the county including the Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation. The ambassador said the US government is committed to supporting devolution to enable county governments to become self-reliant. “We are supporting Homa Bay so that it becomes a model county in service delivery in Kenya and even East Africa,” McCarter said. Governor Awiti said they welcome investors to help them improve the economy of the county. “Investment is one of the ways we can grow the economy of the county hence we’re ready to support it,” Awiti said. The governor allayed fears from locals that the investors might interfere with their livelihood. “As a government, we will ensure the interests of our people come first to ensure they benefit from the investors. We highly welcome them,” he added. Orata said the Homa Bay government will work with more development partners to enhance the economic prosperity of the county residents. “What matters in life today is investment opportunities. Let our people be ready to invest,” he said.