Inspector-General of Police Hillary Mutyambai has directed traffic police officers manning roadblocks to arrest all excess passengers in PSVs during this festive season. In a joint press briefing with NTSA, Mutyambai said the move is part of the efforts to ensure maximum safety during the holidays. According to the directive, the officers should allow the rest of the crew to proceed with the journey to the intended destination with the remaining passengers. The IG said it is the responsibility of the passenger to know when a vehicle is full and thus those who board already filled up vehicles have no excuse. "The responsibility lies with the passengers. They can never blame the matatu conductor for being the excess passenger," he said. Mutyambai warned that this will be effected before and even after the festive season. "NTSA has been instructed to deal firmly with those found flouting transport regulations. Drunk driving will not be accepted," he said. He urged Kenyans to cooperate with security officers and share information with any security agencies to ensure a peaceful environment throughout the season. "The National Police Service has made arrangements to ensure safety and security throughout the country. Police officers have been deployed throughout the country, all security multi-agency are involved in security operations during the period of festivities," he said. Mutyambai also directed all matatu officials to ensure all passengers are thoroughly screened before they board. This he said should be extended even to their luggage as in previous years. His sentiments were echoed by NTSA Director General, George Njao who said he will work closely with the police to help reduce road fatalities. According to him, some 3,396 persons have lost their lives on our roads between January and December 17. "This is an increase of 13.4% compared to the same period last year," he said According to NTSA,  73.4% of reported fatalities are among vulnerable road users such as motorcyclists, pillion passengers and pedestrians. The authority said 98% of crashes are attributed to human behaviour such as loss of control due to high speed, lane indiscipline, overloading, dangerous overtaking among others. Njao said the authority will emphasise on; Proper Documentation: Verification of validity/status of Road Service Licenses (RSL), Motor Vehicle Inspection, Driving Licences (DL), PSV Licenses and Conductor Badges. Compliance with Route allocation: This is to ensure PSVs only ply routes that they are licensed to operate on. Use of Short Term Licence and Night Travel Licence: NTSA shall revoke an approved licence if the operator is found contravening its terms and conditions. Tampering with speed limiters: If any of the vehicles subjected to the compliance inspection is noted to have a tampered speed limiter, the entire Sacco/Company’s fleet shall be required to undergo a mandatory motor vehicle inspection. Driver Checks: Random stops along major highways shall be conducted during the day and night to verify validity of DLs, speed checks, use of seat belts, overloading, freewheeling among other issues. Any driver found flouting traffic rules shall have the DL suspended and be required to undergo a mandatory driver retest. Public education campaigns: Road safety campaigns on mass media, at bus termini and police check points shall be intensified in a bid to sensitize the road users on the need for behavior change. "To this end, we advise motorists to plan ahead to avoid last minute rush and check the mechanical soundness of your vehicles in good time," Njao said.