Good morning, An overwhelming majority of Kenyans doubt that President Uhuru Kenyatta will back his deputy William Ruto for the presidency in 2022, a new poll shows. But the Usemi Survey by Kantar (formerly Research International) conducted last week shows that Ruto is the most preferred successor to Uhuru. Here are the other stories making headlines in the Star this morning. For the third month in a row, the country continues to experience unprecedented heavy rains that have triggered floods, mudslides and other calamities associated with bad weather. The amount of rainfall that the country has been experiencing in the past three months, has caused a lot of destruction and loss of lives. ANC Party leader Musalia Mudavadi has lifted the lid on how he was duped by President Uhuru Kenyatta and his Deputy William Ruto ahead of the 2013 poll. Mudavadi has, for the first time, said his presidential run was not bankrolled by State House operatives working for then-President Mwai Kibaki.  “Ours has been a cry in the wilderness. Nobody is listening to us. Of what importance is a crop if there are no fruits for farmers?" Those words from John Getacho summarise the mood of tea farmers across the country. They are angry over low bonuses announced by the Kenya Tea Development Agency. Kenyan Authorities are after four Indonesians suspected to have been on a bribing mission to lure families of the victims of the Ethiopian Airlines ET302 to switch lawyers. According to our source privy to the matter,  the police and immigration officers were tipped of the happening by a friend of a family member represented by Clifford Law Offices. The anti-DP William Ruto brigade from Rift Valley has organised a parallel retreat to that of the DP’s troops taking place in Naivasha. In what appears to be a show of might and to gauge political might ahead of the 2022 poll, the Jubilee rebel MPs have teamed up with their colleagues from Kanu, Chama Cha Mashinani and ODM for a retreat to study and take a position on the BBI report.