Technical Training Institutes will be partnering with Small and Medium Enterprises to create jobs and install instal equipment for trainees. Dr Kevit Desai, PS for Vocational and Technological Training. It is important to encourage women to enrol in technical training especially in things that are only considered for men, said on Friday the partnership will provide needed industrial knowledge in business development. Youth must adopt technical training to realise the Big Four Agenda, he said, adding that developed countries were built on a skilled labour force. “We want these institutions to not only provide skills and competencies to young women and men,” the PS said when he toured the Chamasiri Technical Training Institute in Teso North. He said TVETs will partner with Small and Medium Enterprises to provide technology solutions. SMEs will be installing equipment in TVETS to enhance the productivity and employability of graduates, he said. He said the partnership will also promote new enterprises and value addition in agriculture and manufacturing. The Central Bank of Keny says the SME sector represents 98 per cent of businesses in Kenya and the industry contributes about three per cent of its GDP. “As young people, the more you are skilled, the more you earn and life will be more exciting because you will be able to do several things and achieve so much because of your competencies," Desai said. He was accompanied by  Teso North MP Oku Kaunya said. He urged Kenyans to enrol in high numbers in technical institutes. “It is important to encourage women to enrol in technical training especially in things that are only considered for men,” he said. Teso North MP Oku Kaunya said for the country to develop, the youth must drop the notion that technical training is only for academic failures. “Technical training is the way to go because we give our people skills that will enable them to grow economically and socially,” he said. The Small and Medium Enterprise sector creates at least 80 per cent of new employment opportunities annually and promotes middle-class demand for goods and service. In Kenya, the industry has been identified as a key player in economic development. (Edited by V. Graham)