By winning the 2019 East African Safari Classic Rally, Austrian winner Kris Rosenberger left a big mark in the famous round of the world’s toughest marathon raid event. Successfully crossing over to Tanzania and back to Kenya in 10 days of a combination of both muddy and dusty also left the organisers relieved after the current threatened to halt proceeding, claiming some crews while forces rerouting of some stages. And to emerge top in such tough conditions left Rosenberger, his navigator — Nicola Bleicher — and their supporting cast an excited lot despite the challenges they had in their Porsche 911. "Winning the East African Safari Classic Rally is one of the biggest achievements I can remember in my rallying career. The event is famous in the world and that adds extra sweetness to my victory. This was the biggest challenge I've ever faced, the toughest rally in the world,” said Rosenberger, who has won the Austrian Rally Championship and the  Historic Rally. His victory also goes down in history as the first-ever win for a female navigator, Nicola Bleicher, in the Safari Classic. Others female competitors included Julia Savesson with Trey Lockey (6th place), Kate Hyes and her dad Joe Hayes (12th) and Juliette Brinkerhoff with Renee Brinkerhoff (15th). Swede Stig Blomqvist, who made his international breakthrough in 1971, finished second in an Audi Quattro for the Audi factory team. The decorated driver is a former World Rally Championship winner (1984),  runner-up (1985) and have won the Swedish Rally seven times. Rally debutant, Osian Price was equally chuffed with his success. “East African Safari Classic Rally is a historic event for me. After 9 Days intense rallying it felt strange not jumping into the car this morning. Met great people and new friends along the way. Great feeling to be class and stage winners on my first ever visit,” said Price. Raju Chaggar, the Clerk of Course, said: “This Classic Rally is like putting together all the eight Kenya National Rally Championship events and running them all at once. Wonderful experience and not without the help of my deputy, Alfir Khan, my assistants Tinu Khan and Qayum Shiraz plus a big family of officials. I am just very grateful." Only 16 of the original 20 starters finished the gruelling rally that criss-crossed over 3390km divided into 24 stages across Kenyan and Tanzanian. The Tanzanian side proved the toughest as one full day was cancelled due to rains. Onkar Rai was the best-placed local driver among the five Kenyans out of the 16 finishers, placed third. Tejveer Rai also finished in the top 10 while Aslam Khan (11th), Baldev Chager (14th) and Ian Duncan (15th) also showed bravery while making it to the finishing line in Mombasa. Safaricom, Vivo Energy Kenya, Whitesands Hotel, Bidco Africa and DT Dobie were the main sponsors of the 2019 East Africa Classic Rally. On any given day of the rally, crews covered between 390km – 500km (a combined distance of stage and transport).