World Under-20 Local Organizing Committee is thrilled after a team of German officials gave the Athletes village in Kenyatta University a clean bill of health. The committee through its accommodation department took the advanced contingent of the Germans through the village and remained hopeful that more countries will follow suit. The visiting officials led by the National Youth coach Jorg Peter and his Junior team counterpart Dietmar Chounard settled for the same hostel they had used during the World Under-18 championship in 2017. The two said Germany will be represented by over 100 athletes hence necessitating the early logistical visit. On Monday,the team paid a courtesy call to the German Embassy in Nairobi and are expected to tour the Moi Stadium,Kasarani,the venue earmarked to host the event this morning. The accommodation department reiterated their commitment in upgrading the village to host more than 2000 athletes and team officials. According to the deputy director of accommodation, Peter Angwenyi, more countries are expected to send advanced delegations to inspect the village and the venue. At the same time, Angwenyi said  they had stepped up their efforts to beat the deadline set by the World Athletics. “We expect more countries to send officials to inspect the village and Kasarani Stadium. Yesterday, we had officials from Germany who were pleased with the progress and booked the rooms they used in 2017.They were impressed with running track, gym and other training facilities available. We have to upgrade the village now that we are looking to host more than 2000 athletes and team officials,” he added. Angwenyi in the meantime revealed that broadening the training area at Kenyatta University and upgrading the equipment therein to suit the age category were part of the ongoing works. He challenged Athletics Kenya to look at Kenyatta University as the future should Kenya win the bid to host bigger events. “We have made the training area bigger and ensured the equipment at the village are in line with the age of the athletes. We had benchmarked in various countries and had to ensure we deliver a world class village different from the hotels offered in other countries. We hope that more institutions will bench mark with K.U and set up more villages in the future,” he noted.