Nairobi was a proper city when Charles Rubia was the mayor, his long-time friend Muthoni Likimani has said. Muthoni who grew up with Rubia’s wife Hannah has said the former mayor ensured the city adequate infrastructure that made life easier for all. She said Rubia ensured children were immunised in schools Munga and the city had sufficient facilities for social activities by youths. Muthoni spoke on Monday at the Karigu-ini Primary School grounds in Murang'a County for the funeral service of the former Cabinet Minister Charles Wanyoike Rubia. Among those in attendance were President Uhuru Kenyatta, Murang'a Governor Mwangi Wa Iria, Woman Representative Sabina Chege, Cabinet Secretaries Eugene Wamalwa (Devolution), James Macharia (Transport), Monica Juma (Foreign Affairs). Others are Senators James Orengo (Siaya), Irungu Kang’ata (Murang’a), MPs Alice Wahome (Kandara), Millie Odhiambo (Suba North), Kembi Gitura (former Murang’a Senator), Peter Kenneth (former Gatanga MP) and Beatrice Elachi (Nairobi County Assembly Speaker). The 94-year-old legendary author who was the first female producer of the Voice of Kenya said Rubia would light the mayor’s Christmas tree every December to share with the less fortunate. Many Asians, she noted, contributed foodstuffs and other wares to him to issue out during Christmas. Muthoni challenged the current leadership to emulate the late veteran politician who ensured his system of governance worked for all communities living in the city. While giving her tribute, Muthoni said Rubia established estates such as Dandora, Umoja and Buru Buru and helped residents to own homes. “We now wonder what happened. Call us before we sleep and we can sleep any moment for dialogue. Let us follow the example set by Rubia,” she said. Muthoni who gave a detailed narrative of how she schooled with Hannah and went on to live with her for many years eulogized Rubia as a tough man who worked hard to ensure city dwellers lived comfortably. “I was very hurt when I was told about his demise but I thanked God that he did not suffer health-wise,” she said. Muthoni said she witnessed the Kenyan flag being hoisted as the British flag was lowered and was very proud to be part of the moment. “I fear today that we may have fought the British but are we careful not to allow others to come in through the back door?” she asked. She said Kenyans suffered, were uprooted from their homes as they fought for independence and that they now want a country devoid of corruption. Her sentiments were echoed by the fourth mayor of the Nairobi city Nathan Kahara who said Rubia is the one who designed the city. “He planned the schools, hospitals and estates, and gave the city honour,” Kahara said, adding that the veteran politician was the one who came up with the idea of establishing Nairobi national park. Kahara appealed to President Uhuru Kenyatta to support both Rubia and the late Kenneth Matiba’s families which he said suffered during the struggle for multi-partyism. Equity Bank Founding Chairman Peter Munga on his part eulogised Rubia as a man who strongly believed strongly in equity. “He believed that all races and communities should enjoy the opportunities available and live in comfort,” he said. Rubia, he said, would be very bitter every time he saw people complaining without offering solutions to the challenges facing the country. He said leaders should be the ones going to people to advise them on how to handle the challenges experienced. “He has left a very rich legacy. He thought Kenya has no reason to be a poor country, complaining of unemployment because we have the capacity to resolve all these issues, as people and leaders,” Munga said. Rubia’s sister Peris Kariuki said he always got along with all members of the family and deeply cared for his extended family. “At a time when girls were rarely educated, he encouraged me to go to school,” she said.