Busia has finalised the process of repossessing part of the Busia Bus Park that had been grabbed by a private investor. Lands, Housing and Urban Development Chief Officer Maurice Odundo on Sunday told The Star the grabbed section will officially be handed over to the Kenya National Highways Authority before the end of January next year. The part was hived off by the developer more than 15 years ago. Kenha is expected to rehabilitate the park. The renovation will run concurrently with the expansion of the Busia-Mundika road, Odundo said. “As far as I know, everything has been done. We had expected to hand it over to Kenha before the end of December but they said they were not ready because they cancelled the contract of the designing consultant,” Odundo said. The park is the main terminus that hosts public service vehicles plying the Busia-Kisumu, Busia-Bungoma and Busia-Kampala routes, among other roads. A press brief issued by the office of Governor Sospeter Ojaamong on Wednesday last week said the county had followed due process in reclaiming the land. It added, however, that until the letter of allotment is revoked, the county government cannot carry out any works aimed at rebuilding the park, which is less than 500 metres away from the Kenya-Uganda border. The county revisited the issue of giving it a facelift following constant complaints on social media by residents about the poor state of the bus park, which usually floods during rainy seasons. On May 22, 2018, the Roads department heeded residents’ calls to renovate it even though it was still in the hands of the investor. "There is a need to do work to create drainage for stagnant water. We need residents to appreciate the county government's intervention,” Roads executive Okwara Ekirapa said. He directed engineers to kickstart rehabilitation works when he toured the potholed park last year. Odundo said residents complained about the poor state of the park with little knowledge that the land had been grabbed. The delayed transfer of ownership had limited the county’s preparedness to carry out basic maintenance work, he added. The park is poorly lit and after its rehabilitation, the devolved unit will install high-mast security lights to secure informal businesses around it. Odundo said the county government had to engage the National Land Commission and other relevant stakeholders to fix ownership row.