Good morning, Deputy President William Ruto is casting a wide net for 2022 and not necessarily relying on support from President Uhuru Kenyatta's Mt Kenya backyard. Ruto is making forays into other strategic regions to build a formidable force as key Central Kenya leaders renege on a promise to back him for the country’s top job. Here are the other stories making headlines in the Star this morning. Nairobi County Assembly is divided over the planned impeachment of Governor Mike Sonko, charged with Sh357 theft from Nairobians through myriad schemes. The new leadership who have been preaching 'peace' seem to be reading fro different scripts.  Parliament has directed the government to pay 39 former soldiers Sh222 million for unfair dismissal and harsh treatment during the 1982 coup attempt. The Senate endorsed a report by the National Security, Defence and Foreign Relations Committee recommending immediate compensation of the former Kenya Airforce officers.  The Education Ministry will once again control the distribution of free sanitary pads to school girls ultimately stripping off this power from women representatives. The women representatives have in the last two years controlled the distribution under the National Government Affirmative Action Fund domiciled in the Gender Ministry. The Kenya Civil Aviation Authority(KCAA) has denied Saudi Arabian Airlines and Ethiopian Airlines changes on key air service licenses, deaming their expansion quest mainly on cargo services. In its latest decision on 27 licence applications, it granted 14 licenses and varied 10. One has been deferred while two variations denied. The cost of living has gone through the roof. Companies are downsizing, with job losses becoming routine. Unemployment is almost at tipping point. At the same time, the government is seeking to attract a double-down on local investment in the manufacturing sector, with the clarion call "Buy Kenya, Build Kenya". President Uhuru Kenyatta even directed government officials to wear locally made garments on Fridays.