2019 did not only see Kenya make its long-awaited debut on the world-famous European Tour for both men and women but also welcomed highly ranked Tour pros. 15-time European Tour Champion and ex Ryder Cup Captain, Denmark’s Thomas Bjorn, who played in the Magical Kenyan Open was the star-attraction after honouring an invitation by organisers Kenya Open Golf Limited (KOGL). The other was Tiger Woods' niece Cheyenne Woods, who plies her trade in the prestigious Ladies PGA. While Cheyenne was visiting Kenya for the first time, Bjorn relieved his fond memories from his last visit 24 years ago. "I have good memories of my visit here in 1995," Bjorn said during a pre-tournament press conference in Nairobi."I always felt like I wanted to come back but it never really happened and then came the opportunity and I'm glad to be here. I'm looking forward to the week." "As a Dane coming here it's always a bit interesting, the name of the place, the heritage of Karen Blixen here," he said."When I grew up in Denmark, going to the Karen Blixen museum in Copenhagen and seeing all those things, there's always been that kind of relationship for Danes with this place, which is quite interesting." The country's unrelenting focus on tapping into the huge potential that exists in golf tourism didn't just end there and was evidently noticeable on the last round of the Ladies European Tour's Magical Kenya Ladies Open held at Vipingo Ridge PGA Baobab Course in early December. Kenya made history by joining the LET, giving local lady players (four amateurs and one professional) the rare moment of gracing the prestigious series. Amateurs Margaret Njoki, Agnes Nyakio, Naomi Wafula, Mercy Nyanchama and sole Kenyan lady pro Bhavi Shah became the first local players to grace the Tour. Nine months earlier, the prestigious Kenya Open became a European Tour event and was played at Karen Country Club in mid-March, the week of the 2019 Players Championship on the PGA Tour. The event was on the European-based second-tier Challenge Tour schedule from 1991 to 2018, with the exception of the 1994 event. Internet Sensation Another significant invitee of this year's Kenya Open was internet sensation Ho-sung Choi, whose unique swing wowed spectators in Kenya. The South Korean — who became a social media sensation after footage of his 'fisherman’s swing' was widely shared online — accepted an invitation to compete at the tournament, which took place at the Karen Country Club in Nairobi on March 14 to 17. The 45-year-old, who taught himself to play golf after reading about the game in magazines, is well-known for his theatrical swing, but also has three world titles to his name — including the Casio World Open, which he won in Japan last year. Kenya Open winner 22-year old Italian professional golfer, Guido Migliozzi won the 2019 Magical Kenya Open after returning a score of 16-under par 268. He pocketed Sh20.5m. The Italian started his campaign at the 2019 Magical Kenya Open with a score of 4-under par after round one, following it up with a 2-under par score on day two to successfully make the cut. It was at round three that he turned on the style with an impressive 7-under par score to give him a share of the lead going into the final round. Uganda Open Kenya's Daniel Nduva won the 2019 Uganda Open Amateur Championship to continue his good run in the season. On the pro front, long hitter Dismas Indiza rued failing to win the prestigious Uganda event. Despite smashing the course record of 9 under par 63 on the penultimate round and moving 22 places up the competitive leaderboard, Indiza expressed his disappointment for failing to defend the title he eventually lost to Zambian Muthiya Madalitso. Ladies European Tour-LET Kenya's long-cherished LET dream was conceived from a two day 36 hole Pro Am Ladies Invitational Tournament that attracted 13 Professional Lady Golfers who toured Kenya to play golf and sample tourism attractions at the same time. Cheyenne Woods, the niece of former world number one Tiger  Woods and Indian star Adit Ashok were among the Lady professional golfers who expressed their desire to come back to Kenya after their inaugural visits. Cheyenne, arguably the most popular name among Kenyan fans who graced the event, relished the country’s scenery, adding that Kenyans have been really welcoming and warm towards her, something that really made an impression on her. “It is beautiful here. The beaches are amazing and the people have been so welcoming. It’s been a really good trip so far,” she said, adding:“First time to Kenya, so I feel like I have to do a Safari. I definitely would love to (come back). I know there is a lot more to do and see so I am hoping to come back next and in the future.” Henseleit rules Germany’s Esther Henseleit shot a course-record round of 64 on the final day of the Magical Kenya Ladies Open, to make history as the first winner of the tournament with a total score of 14-under par 274 – one shot ahead of her nearest challenger. Her final day performance saw her do what many considered to be unthinkable, turning a seven-shot gap into a win. She played a flawless round to hand in a bogey-free scorecard, adorned with eight birdies, and one which will take quite some effort to topple as one of the most incredible comebacks in the history of the game. Kenya Amateur Golf Championship-KAGC The Kenya Amateur Golf Championship (formerly Goty) came to an end after the conclusion of the Nyali Open. It's was a double win for Daniel Nduva after winning 2019 Nyali Open and the lowest gross average Gross score at the venue. Samuel Njoroge, on the other hand, was awarded the top Kenya Amateur Championship winner while Vet Lab Sports Club was for the second time given the Club of the year award. The KAGC produced immense fireworks with youngsters showing some flashes of brilliance. Youngster Mutahi Kibugu won the Winston Churchill trophy at Thika Sports Club in November. Nduva also won the 2019 Coronation Trophy and later Manchester Salver at Eldoret Golf Club in early November. Kenya Open slot Victor Joseph from Tanzania's Dar es Salaam Gymkana Golf Club won the Kenya Amateur Strokeplay Championship at Thika Greens. This handed him a slot at the 2020 Magical Kenya Open. Njoroge’s defeat at Thika saw the Tanzanian clinch the solitary slot at stake in the event for the Magical Kenya Open. This meant Njoroge, the finest Kenyan amateur, will have to bank on KAGC ranking. Victor was a beneficiary of inclement weather which saw the fourth round called off with the winner being determined by three rounds. Taimur Malik took the 2019 Tea Fields Trophy after a 4th hole playoff against William Odera. John Kariuki from Limuru Country Club reigned supreme on the 2019 Limuru Open while Paul Muchangi racked up the Kenya Amateur Matchplay Championship. All Africa Championships Mont Choicy Le Golf course was the venue for the All Africa Team Golf Championship in October, where defending champions South Africa beat hosts Mauritius by a total of 46 shots to retain the title as Kenya finished seventh. Only captain Njoroge did well in the final round shooting level par 72 while youngsters Mutahi Kibugu and Zubair Khan shot six over-par 78 each for a team score of 228. This was Kenya's worst finish ever in the championship. Safari Tour The Road to the 2020 Magical Kenya Open began in earnest at Nyali in August with Greg Snow won the first leg of Safari Tour, which went regional. Elsewhere, S.Kiaro and M.Karanga emerged number 3 after the final round of the World International Pairs finals held in Portugal. Team Kenya finished second after losing to the Ugandans in June during the Africa Region IV Championship. Team Kenya led after two rounds of the tournament. In July, hosts Uganda displayed awesome golfing skills in the closing round singles to vanquish defending champions Kenya 7-3 for an all rounds total of 14 points to lift the Victoria Cup, an annual rotational tournament between the two countries for the first time, at the par 72 Uganda Golf Club course.