The management of KCA University has denied claims its campus in Amagoro, Busia county, has been closed. Council member Prof Olubayi Olubayi told the Star on phone on Friday that the campus will admit students in 2020, but said the institution’s management may shut it down if enrolment declines. “Next month we will have students admitted,” he said. “But if the community will not support the university by sending students, the management may consider closing it.” A source said the campus had been shut following a sharp decline in the number of students enrolling for business courses. “It can now be authoritatively confirmed that the formerly vibrant KCA Amagoro campus has been closed down,” the source said. “The KCA board confirmed in its meeting that business has not been usual for close to one year in which a loss of Sh19 million has been borne. Busia leaders are up in arms to find out why it was closed.” According to the source, KCA Amagoro campus has been going through a challenging time following a drastic drop in the number of students, a development he attributed to “bad politics” involving some local leaders as well as managers. He claimed the campus will only open in January to facilitate completion of studies by students studying computer courses. He also said senior managers at Amagoro campus were served with dismissal letters last week. The only staff members remaining at the campus are lecturers teaching computer studies. They will also be expected to leave the institution in May next year. He said poor marketing by the current management is to blame for the institution’s closure. But Prof Olubayi said the university’s overall rate of admission had more than doubled saying the institution was doing well. “The only problem we have is that the enrolment at Amagoro campus has declined. But overall, KCA University is doing well,” he said. He said a board of management meeting that reviewed Amagoro campus’ performance and sustainability did not at any time resolve to close the campus. KCA University that is presently led by Prof Noah Midamba as vice chancellor was founded in 1989. It started as the Kenya College of Accountancy run by the Institute of Certified Public Accountants of Kenya to improve the quality of accountancy and financial management training in the country.