Kisauni MP Ali Mbogo says the Building Bridges Ilnitiative report ihas failed to address land historical injustices at the Coast, which may alienate the region. Mbogo said for the Coast people to fully support the BBI, they must feel the government is with them and cares about them. “We have to ensure that the benefits meant to be realised through the BBI are realised,” said Mbogo. He spoke at the Jamhuri Day celebrations at Tononoka ground in Mombasa on Thursday. “If we want peace and harmony, the historical injustices at the Coast must be addressed. Now we have an opportunity to do that,” said Mbogo. The region has had its fair share of turmoil owing to historical land injustices. Land invasion by squatters has also contributed to insecurity in the region, with historical land injustices being blamed. On Thursday, Mbogo said leaders at the Coast have to push for the inclusion of clauses that will address the historical injustices once and for all. “Let us all read the report individually. Don’t depend on politicians,” said Mbogo. Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir said all Kenyans must own the report. He called on the county government to ensure that enough copies of the BBI report are produced so that Mombasa residents get to read it. He told off those pushing for the report to be debated in Parliament saying Kenyans must be the owners of the report because it affects them the most. “The voices of all Kenyans must be heard,” he said. He said it is meaningless to tell Kenyans to read and understand the report of it is left to Parliament to decide whether to pas sit or not. “This is a country that is run by laws. We cannot start jumping into issues that are impossible to be decided by a few people at the expense of the voices of millions of people who also need to be heard,” said Nassir. He said the constitution gives sovereign power to the people and it is the people who should decide whether to pass or drop the BBI in a referendum. “Kenyans, read this report. Our role is only to tell you what our opinions are,” said Nassir.