More than 300,000 girls have received the  HPV vaccination in the ongoing campaign. The HPV vaccine launched on October 18 in Mombasa county by President Uhuru Kenyatta will be given to 10-year-old girls in two doses to prevent cervical cancer. “Our target is to reach 800,000 girls with the life-saving vaccine and the campaign has been going well, except in the northern areas where heavy rains disrupted the drive, Health CS Sicily Kariuki spoke on Friday. She spoke at an event she hosted to celebrate Christmas with children at the Kenyatta National Hospital Paediatric cancer ward. The rollout was to be done since early last year but has been postponed several times. The country has 1.3 million doses of the vaccine in stock, costing Sh800 million. African countries have been slow to roll out the HPV vaccine to their populations, despite the continent having a high incidence of cervical cancer, which the vaccine helps to prevent. Currently, 10 African governments offer the HPV vaccine in their national immunisation packages, according to the WHO and Gavi (Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunisation). They are Botswana, Ethiopia, Rwanda, Seychelles, Uganda, Tanzania, Senegal, Malawi, Zambia and Zimbabwe. Speaking during the launch, President Kenyatta said leaders that cancer does not discriminate according to religion. "Let us not fight science, let us work together, let us ask questions from an intellectual point of view,” the President said. The vaccine against the cancer-causing HPV will be administered six months apart, at about 9,000 public, private and faith-based facilities countrywide. The vaccine will be given as an injection in the upper arm and a card issued to all vaccinated girls, indicate the date for the second dose. In Kenya, cancer of the cervix is the second most common kind of cancer in women aged 15-44 years after breast cancer, according to statistics released by the International Agency for Research on Cancer last year. She presented the children with a television set for the chemo centre and a fridge for storage of medication. “Last year at this time,  was here and I promised to come back. The TV will enable the children to watch cartoons as they undergo their chemotherapy," she said. The CS enrolled four children in the National Health Insurance Fund to assist in their treatment. She said the ministry will work closely with governors to ensure health centres and dispensaries are fully equipped and appropriate health personnel are deployed. (Edited by V Graham)