Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru has accused some Mt Kenya MPs of undermining President Uhuru Kenyatta and inciting residents against him. She said Uhuru is still the Mount Kenya kingpin and the spokesperson. She dismissed those fighting the President as jokers who have nothing to offer to residents. Waiguru said the region should not get carried away by the BBI euphoria, because this would leave it in the political wilderness. "We know some people are traversing the region accompanied by some MPs inciting residents against the President. I want to tell you that the owner of the house is the one who knows where the problem is. Don’t be incited by a visitor to burn your own house," Waiguru said. She spoke at Kianyaga Catholic Hall on Tuesday when she disbursed Sh55 million cheques to farmers' groups for different projects in the agriculture sector in the county. After the release of the BBI report, 57 MPs from the region met in Embu, where they said the document should be implemented by Parliament. Present was Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri. Waiguru said a few individuals should not cause divisions in Mount Kenya, adding that the BBI report is not about 2022 succession politics but one to unite the country. "It is not yet time for 2022 politics. What we should be doing as leaders is implementing development projects for citizens to benefit," the county boss said. Waiguru also said that instead of holding frequent press conferences to rebuff the President over the BBI and other regional issues, the MPs should be passing bills in Parliament to improve the coffee and tea sectors. The former CS told residents to read and support the BBI report. Waiguru is seen as the face of pro-handshake leaders in the region. A week ago, she hosted over 50 MPs and Cabinet Secretaries to a fundraiser at Gathuthini Secondary School, where leaders affirmed support for the BBI report. "The President has given us the direction we should follow on the report and as a region, we must not be divided on it," she added. She also defended the President from accusations that he is out of touch with Wanjiku, being aloof and failing to get solutions to tea, coffee, and milk farmers. Agriculture On development, Waiguru said her government is focused on improving the agriculture sector. She said the county will soon roll out the construction of a milk processing plant in collaboration with the World Bank to cushion dairy farmers from losses. The county is also in the process of actualising the one million eggs a month by providing poultry farmers with chicks and feed for the first six months. Another sector that has benefitted is avocado farming, where the county has started distribution of Hass avocado seedlings. 