There is a plan to break up the Women Premier League into two zones in the face of the financial challenges most topflight clubs are facing. Football Kenya Federation  (FKF) vice president Doris Petra revealed that they are keenly considering the proposal after a season which saw several walkovers given out as teams struggled to raise money to honour their fixtures. "It makes no sense for the team to be crowned league champion when for example they have been handed several walkovers. This situation works to the detriment of the development of women football in the country," opined Petra. "We are proposing that the league be divided into two zones based on the locality of individual clubs. That way, we will not only save them some costs but will also encourage other teams to fight harder to join the top flight," she suggested. Vihiga Queens defended their league title despite a strong challenge from Gaspo.Petra and the FKF executive were roundly criticised for their failure to attend Vihiga's coronation and also the lack of prize money for the champions. "I have attended the two previous crownings of the WPL champions. This time around due to FKF elections and other commitments, I did not make it for the ceremony. The federation was, however, represented by the Western branch officials. Further, we are equally not happy that our winning teams were not rewarded deservedly but all this is due to lack of funds," explained Petra. The FKF second in command disclosed that this year, they will seek more support from the federation coffers in the wake of recent partnerships with betting firms Odibet and Betika that has sponsored football activities at various levels with 127 million and 90 million respectively. "Now that women football is yet to get sponsorship and the Fifa grants continue to delay despite requests for the same, the federation should set aside some money for the women's game from the sponsorship they have managed to attract so far,"Petra said. Petra assured that the federation will offset the pledges they made to the clubs of granting them Sh700,000 annually once funds are available.