Gor Mahia forward Francis Afriyie has exclusively revealed that former La Liga side Real Zaragoza headlines the European clubs jostling for his signature. The Ghanaian striker said that Zaragoza, who currently ply their trade in the Spanish Segunda division, had contacted his agent over the availability of his services but he remained tight-lipped on a possible move. The former Bechem United striker also disclosed that Albania’s FK Partizani and Atletico Saltillo who feature in the Mexican league were also muscling for his signature. The stylish striker was among the 17 new players the club unveiled before the season began and despite the reoccurring harmstring injuries which bedevilled his start of life at K’Ogalo, he has found the back of the net five times. Afriyie penned a one-year long deal and hardly four months at Gor, his signature is a bone of contention overseas. However, the 25-year-old ruled out making a move as he had a contract with Gor. He said he would consult his father (Manfred Takyi) whom is understood to have jetted into the country two weeks ago to meet Gor honchos as well as his South African-based Agent Franci Ampadu. “I have been contacted by Zaragoza who have joined the race to sign me. There are also clubs from Albania and Mexico who want my services but I am yet to make a decision. I love Gor so does my father who is a great fan of the club and even before I make up my mind, I have to consult him as well as my agent. In the meantime, I am committed to give one hundred percent when in Gor shirt,” he said. Meanwhile, Afriyie is set to fly to South Africa today to meet his agent. The former Murciélagos player said he was honing his skills with Mt Kenya United following the two-week go slow at Gor. Since playing Ulinzi Stars to a barren draw on December 1, the players have not resumed training in protest for their delayed four month salaries. “I will travel to south Africa on Friday to meet Ampadu for a briefing and then come back. I haven’t shared with him on my life at Gor neither have we talked about the offers on the table. I have been training with Mt Kenya United just to keep fit,” he added.