 The disruption of services at the Aga Khan University Hospital on Friday evening was a precursor of the flooding that was to be experienced in Nairobi at the weekend. Several roads and estates were flooded as heavy downpour descended on the city. At Parklands, where Aga Khan Hospital is situated, the flooding was blamed on  spillage of rainwaters. Several estates including South C, Kilimani, Mathare, Umoja, Kasarani, Pipeline and Mwiki were flooded. The Thika Superhighway was flooded with the section between Survey and Muthaiga nearly impassable through the service lane. It is the point at which Nairobi River passes as it flows into Mathare downstream. The Kenya Red Cross advised motorists to avoid using the service lane and take caution along the route. Governor Mike Sonko said some county hospitals were affected by the water spillage. City Hall has already deployed disaster management officers in all the 17 subcounties amid the heavy downpour. The move follows a warning from the weatherman that the capital city is among regions that will experience heavy rains in the coming days. The meteorological department says the downpour will continue throughout December. The disaster management and co-ordination team is led by chief officer Anne Mwenda. They have been visiting areas affected by floods, to unclog drainages and create outlets for flash floods. They visited parts of Embakasi where they flushed and unclogged the drainage along the entire Transami Road which connects to the Catherine Ndereba Road in Kware ward. “Most of the drainage systems are unclogged on a daily basis because some of us have decided not to be disciplined enough in waste disposal. We are throwing it anywhere and everywhere,” Sonko said. On Monday, residents of Fedha demonstrated over the poor state of the road leading to the estate. They said it was full of pools of water. The protest ended after anti-riot police officer lobbed teargas at the protesters. Ojijo Road in Parklands was among those flooded after the heavy downpour on Saturday. It was claimed that a man had drowned in floods in Mukuru Kwa Njenga slums over the weekend. The Star could not independently confirm the death. Those living in homes along the Likoni Lane off Dennis Pritt Road in Kilimani also not had their share of the discomfort after floodwaters broke walls and entered their residences. Streets and avenues in the central business district were flooded forcing pedestrians to compete for the pavement with hawkers. The hawkers complained the ongoing rains were hurting business. They said motorists were splashing water on their wares. City Hall has instructed its subcounty administrators to lead in unclogging blocked drainage systems.