The High court on Wednesday  suspended a notice increasing parking fees within the Central Business District and Kijabe Street in Nairobi. The new parking charges came into effect on Wednesday morning. Justice James Makau issued the order after Consumer Federation of Kenya (Cofek) argued that the decision to increase parking fees and other charges will adversely affect consumers seeking transport and parking services within the area. Makau said the petition by Cofek raises constitutional issues that ought to be determined by the court. City hall last week  issued the public notice dated 2 December increasing the parking fees from the current Sh200 to Sh400. The notice signed by Tom Tinega, the county’s director parking services indicated the order would take effect on December 4. The Court gave City hall 21 days to file their responses ahead of the the hearing date on January 21, 2020. Meanwhile, Federation of Public Transport Operators have called upon all matatus not to pay the new parking fee charges until the matter is solved. The body which comprises of various Matatu unions  threatened to go on strike if there are any arrests made on their members on failure to pay the new fees. Chairman of Association of Bus Operators Kenya (ABOK) Edwin Mukabana said that the county did not consult them when they passed the Finance Bill. “We are disturbed that the fact we pay sh 40 million per month that the county assembly can pas a finance bill without stakeholder participation,” he said. Mukabana said that unpredictable and unilateral introduction of new regulations and by laws that are not backed by social -economic impact assessment are the biggest threat to public transport business. In the new charges PSVs with 14 seats are to pay sh 5250, 41 sitter  to pay sh 8000 and 51 sitter to pay sh 10000. Matatu Owner Association chairman Simon Kimutai said the county government deliberately left out the new charges which PSVs are to pay. “They deliberately did not include the new charges in the notice but on the ground they are pushing we pay for the new charges,” he said. The PSVs owners claimed the county government of Nairobi has no vote to support public transport priority measures, no functioning department of transport and has no traffic management control centre. The PSV owners urges the County government to exempt them from paying parking fee charges noting that they carry more passengers per road leading to less congestion. They also want the county to implement the urban transport principal that requires the PSVs to pay fees less than those paid by private cars.