African Boxing Union middleweight champion Rayton 'Boom Boom' Okwiri can't wait to put his title on the line on Saturday against Congolese orthodox boxer Agustine Matata at Charter Hall. The fight dubbed 'Harder Than Before' is sanctioned by the Kenyan Professional Boxing Commission and supported by Solid Rock Promotion. It comes just two weeks after another failed title defence. Okwiri, who has been holding dual training camps at the Pal Pal boxing gym in Pumwani and at Kaloleni Social Hall under respected coach David Kilo, Boniface Ndolo and Daniel Shisia said he is more than ready to defend his ABU crown. “I was disappointed not to fight at the end of November under Osaga promotion but I am happy that I have gotten another chance on Saturday to give my fans an early Christmas present by defending my title,” said Okwiri. “I trained hard for the previous fight and right now I am mainly focusing on conditioning and trying to maintain my weight ahead of the bout,” added the former national team and  Kenya Prison amateur boxer. Okwiri has been going through a punishing training regime that includes sparring rounds with as many as four different partners in every session as he seeks to ensure he will not suffer any surprises against the experienced Matata who is based in South Africa. “We have prepared for any eventuality in the match. I know my opponent is a tough fighter and fans should expect a thrilling fight. Okwiri's coach Shisia was categorical that his corner will expect nothing but a solid win from him "The victory is what we love most. Okwiri must show them the real boxing style. Fans should turn up in large numbers for this thriller," said Shisia Okwiri has been touting this defence of the ABU  middleweight belt as a stepping stone for him to challenge for world titles next year. He remains undefeated since turning professional in 2016. Tickets for the fight are retailing at Sh1,000 for VIP, Sh400  for regular and a flat rate of Sh100 for children. Gates to the bout open at 6 pm on Saturday. 