Bishops and civil society groups in Rift Valley have urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to intensify the war on graft this year. Director of the Centre for Human Rights and Democracy Kipkorir Ngetich rated the President's anti-graft achievements at 60 per cent. Others made similar assessments. Good work but a long way to go. “Unlike before, we saw even very powerful Cabinet secretaries face charges over graft. Much as the war may be painful to those involved in corruption, it’s necessary to safeguard the country’s stability and future,” Ngetich said. Ngetich and colleague Nick Omito said the decision by the Central Bank of Kenya to remove the old Sh1,000 notes from circulation had also come at the right time. They said corruption is deeply entrenched, hurting the economy. “In 2022, Uhuru must now safeguard his legacy in a more resolute way by ensuring graft is dealt the final blow and that those who reap from public resources have no place in society," Ngetich said. He urged Uhuru to ensure he achieves his Big Four agenda for development. Jubilee succession politics, he said, must not be allowed to derail the vision. Bishop Sybery Nyabero of the Baptist Churches said they fully support President Kenyatta's efforts to “return the county to its course” as he indicated during the Jamhuri Day celebrations in December. “We surely can get back to the right course and join the leagues of the Asian Tiger nations that grew economically faster, yet we were at the same level," Nyabero said. ACK Kapsabet Bishop Patrice Chumba said they pray for peace and unity in the new year. “At the end of everything, let's all recognise that we are sons and daughters of the same country and the same families. We share a lot in common and we if we put God first then all shall be well," the bishop said. Muslim Preachers and Imams in Rift Valley chairman Abubakar Bini said both the counties and the national government must use public resources to uplift the lives of Kenyans. “Poverty and diseases have increased and we want to see more resources invested in healthcare, education, infrastructure and agriculture among other sectors that can quickly impact the economy," Omito said. They all agreed with research findings that 2019 was one of the worst years for many Kenyans based on the poor economy and diseases like cancer. Edited by R.Wamochie