Garissa county health department has moved to stop the spread of cholera in Dertu, Dadaab sub county, following the death of two people on Sunday. Health executive Ahmednadhir Omar said water quality tests showed some levels of contamination. He said the department had chlorinated water at the source, during storage and at the point of use. "We have embarked on establishing a cholera control centre where a treatment regimen was started for victims, provision of Wash supplies and a campaign to educate the Dertu communities on the importance of using toilets, hand washing, personal hygiene, safe water storage and treatment by boiling and using chemicals,” he said. Speaking to the press in Dertu town on Tuesday, Omar said the emergency cholera response is a joint effort involving the county, and other partners including Unicef Kenya and Kenya Red Cross. “As a department we have implemented the following key activities that include setting up of Cholera Control Centre (CTC), sensitisation of health staff and CHVs on cholera prevention, management of all the patients at CTC adequately and household visit for health education and disinfection of the houses and latrines,” he said. He added: “We have also provided prophylactic drugs (doxycycline, ciprofloxacin, oral rehydration salts and zinc) to all family contacts in the community, distribution of Wash supplies to all affected households as well as conducted contact tracing for index case.” Omar further said that they have engaged religious leaders (sheikhs) to announce in the mosques that there is a cholera outbreak and ask the public to observe and practice high standards of environmental hygiene and sanitation. He refuted reports that at least 10 people had died and several others hospitalised. “Only two persons, a female aged 70 years and a male child aged four years died,” he said. Chief officer Isnino Rage said everything was under control although most patients are brought in shock and unconscious. “We wish to appreciate the dedication of health professionals not just in Dertu but in all the hospitals and facilities across the county and the constant criticisms should not dampen their strong spirit,” she said. Lack of proper hygiene has been blamed with the community’s lack of proper handwashing practice and failure to use pit latrines.