KCB bank has donated Sh6 million to families displaced byandslides and floods in Muino, Parua and Nyarkulian areas in West Pokot county. The donation will be used to buy iron sheets for victims whose houses were buried by mud or swept away. They can rebuild. More than 1500 people were displaced during the disaster that claimed more than 40 lives in the three villages. KCB Retail director  Anastasia Kimutai  handed over the cheque to West Pokot Governor John Longyangapuo on Tuesday. He was accompanied by KCB offiials. Kimutai explained that the support is part of the bank’s commitment to give back to the community through the KCB foundation charity programmes. “This is part of our corporate social responsibility for humanitarian intervention. We believe in giving back to the community where we operate because they give us business,” she said. She said KCB was saddened by the loss of lives, especially the young generation, and promised to continue assisting the homeless get alternative homes. Lonyangapuo praised KCB for the donation to help displaced families buy iron seets and other building materials. “We want other banks operating in this county to emulate this and help the affected families in restarting their lives. We have talked mabati rolling mills to sell usthe iron sheets at a subsidised price,” he said. West Pokot County commissioner Apollo Okello warned those not affected by floods and landslides against taking advantage of the situation and posing as families in need of food and other aid. Okello said that the three camps in the county record high numbers of people during the day but t night the real needy persons are left alone in the camps. “Many people flock to the camps to receive donations and yet they were not affected. He said various donors have helped the victims but it was a shame to see genuine victims lacking basic commodities taken by those who don't need them." He urged residents living in dangerous areas to move since heavy rains are expected to continue. Fourteen people receiving treatment at Kapenguria county hospital have been discharged; one is still receiving treatment (Edited by V. Graham)  