At least 315 people were displaced in Kajiado County on Saturday morning after heavy rains flooded homes in Olkiramatian area of Magadi Ward. On the lower ends of the plains, 15 shops were completely submerged by Saturday morning following heavy rains that pounded the hilly areas of Nkurruman and the Musenke heights on Friday night. Area Sub County Commissioner, William Kakimoni told the Star he received information about the floods at around 4.30 am but there were no casualties. "It appears there was heavy rain on the higher ends of Nkurruman and Musenke that caused floods on the lower plains of Olkiramatian," he said. He added; "We have advised the people to move to higher grounds so as to avoid any eventualities just in case it continues to rain in the area." An elder, Jose Sirai, whose homestead was marooned in the flooded region of Olkiramatian said some 20 homesteads were submerged after the rains that pounded the area for more than 8 hours. Another resident, John Kamanga, while talking on the phone said people have moved more than 3,000 goats and sheep along with over 2,000 heads of cattle to higher grounds. "The situation is messy here. Even though no one was carried away by the floods, goats and cows are now suffering because the shrubs and grass are under the water. We need to take the livestock to the higher grounds to feed," said Kamanga. Kamanga also said the only public transport vehicle that operates between Nkurruman/Magadi and Kiserian was unable to leave the area because of the flooded roads. "This bus leaves here every morning and returns with food rations in the evening. If the situation continues as it is, things may not be good for us because we entirely depend on it," said Kamanga. He claimed that most parts of the roads were badly done by the county government, and now they have turned into deep pools of water. "Shoddy works bred all these havoc. We cannot move because someone conspired with those in government to ‘eat’ the money in exchange for a shoddy job," claimed Kamanga. Charles Lekanet, another resident of the area, said no livestock died in the floods but that if no effort is done to move them to higher grounds, they will die of hunger. Kakimoni, who said he was calling from Baringo, assured the concerned families that the public works department in the county has been alerted and that top personnel and their staffs are already on the ground to monitor the road situation.