The Kisumu assembly has summoned three officials to explain how they intend to manage the effects of floods causing havoc in parts of the county. County secretary Geoffrey Kigochi, Finance executive  George Okong’o and the director of special programmes have been told to appear before the assembly today. Speaker Elisha Oraro directed the three to meet the assembly oversight committee and shed light on the matters raised by the members. The summons follows a statement in the house by South West Kisumu MCA Eric Agola that many families have been left homeless as more continue to be affected by the floods. “Floods have affected so many constituencies within the county including my ward hence there is a need for quick action by the department of disaster management,” Agola said. Most of the MCAs said that floods had affected their wards and sought to know who was in charge of the department that receives Sh100 million Disaster Management Fund every year. While debating the matter, Market Milimani MCA Seth Kanga, however, called for clarity on the management of the disaster fund to clear any confusion. Kanga said that there was a need for the county officials to tell residents what measures they have put in place to address the floods and relieve residents'  suffering. The ward rep urged the county first lady to help distribute material and other support to the flood victims in Nyando as she did in West Pokot. Ombeyi MCA Vitalis Otura said that the county was doing little to manage the disaster. Otura said the assembly should be told about earlier plans put in place to avert such situations before the floods cause havoc. Oraro said that the director of special programmes was summoned on special interest and urged the MCAs to research the matter and prepare as the officers appear before them. Over 1,000 families have been displaced in Kisumu county following the floods occasioned by heavy rains from Sunday. Locals said the floods spread across various villages and marooned houses forcing them to be evacuated to the nearest centre for shelter. The worst-hit villages include Kasiwindi South, Kanyipola, Kasambura, Kalo North and Kalo South. (edited by O. Owino)