A section of Mandera leaders has backed the extension of the Building Bridges Initiative team's term because it will give Kenyans time to improve the document. Economic Freedom Party members led by Chairman Isaak Abey welcomed the move and called on Kenyans to come out in large numbers during the second phase of public participation to give their opinions on the proposals. President Uhuru Kenyatta extended the mandate of the BBI team, tasking them with guiding the next phase which includes expanding and guiding public participation. The 15-member team chaired by Garissa Senator Yusuf Haji has also been given the mandate of structuring proposals gathered from Kenyans into actionable plans that can be implemented. On Sunday, EFP which is the dominant party in Mandera said they will take advantage of the extension to give their views on the structure of the Executive. They said the Executive should address the issue of inclusivity which has been a mirage in the country’s history. “That the President has renewed the taskforce’s mandate with terms to facilitate public participation is the best end of year present Kenyans would wish for,” Abey said. He said the fact that the BBI is anchored upon the premise and principles of inclusivity makes it a sure bet for all Kenyans of goodwill. Abey spoke after a meeting of the party’s leadership and supporters in Nairobi on Sunday. According to EFP, the BBI team should work on an Executive model which ensures inclusivity but at the same time does not burden taxpayers. Hussein Abshiro told journalists that the party will support a modified Executive structure which will give room for all regions to ascend to positions of leadership. “As a party we are concerned with the wage bill but we support whatever arrangement that will ensure we get an inclusive model,” Abshiro said. The report launched at the Bomas of Kenya last month had proposed changes to the Executive including the position of a prime minister hired and fired by the President. The Haji team also proposed reintroduction of the office of the official leader of the opposition.