Former Kenyan Premier League champions Tusker will be out to scale to the top of the log when they play returnees Wazito today at the Kenyatta Stadium, Machakos. The on-form brewers have gathered 24 points and trail defending champions and leaders Gor Mahia by a point. A win today will see them open a two-point gap at the top as the latter will not be in action. Tusker are currently enjoying a form of their live—going six matches without defeat and coach Robert Matano has challenged his playing unit to keep the fire burning. Matano, who will once again have to do without the services of the leading top scorer Timothy Otieno, who is with Harambee Stars in Uganda for the ongoing Cecafa Senior Challenge said his void is well covered, hence there is no cause for alarm. Otieno, who has seven goals to his name, missed their last Friday’s 3-1 win over Kariobangi Sharks but former Nzoia Sugar man Luke Namanda proved equal to the task by hitting a brace to add on to George ‘Blackberry’ Odhiambo goal. “We are not concentrating on ascending to the apex or leapfrogging Gor Mahia. We are focusing on extending our good run and improving our performance. Otieno’s absence is a massive blow to us as the rest of the strikers are braced up for the challenge,” said the league winning coach. While Tusker will be aiming to go top, Wazito will be seeking redemption after falling 4-1 to Bandari in their last match. Wazito will also miss the duo of Johnstone Omurwa and Musa Masika who are also with the national team. At the same time, high-flying Kakamega Homeboyz will be pursuing to dislodge Gor Mahia when they take on Bandari at the Bukhungu Stadium. Homeboyz are two points shy of the record champions and a win will see them move above Gor by a point and may take charge of the log should Wazito humble Tusker. Meanwhile, Chemelil Sugar’s search for their maiden win this season will continue when they host Ulinzi Stars at the Muhoroni Stadium. The financially-drained millers are winless in their opening 12 matches and hope that fortunes go in their favour this time when they confront the soldiers who will also be affected by the Cecafa tournament. The Benjamin Nyangweso-coached Ulinzi who have 18 points will miss their goalkeeper Timothy Odhiambo and Oscar Wamalwa who are in Uganda. Western Stima will tackle Zoo Kericho at the Moi Stadium, Kisumu seeking to move to a point within the reach of Gor.