Leaders and international organisations have condemned the Mogadishu terror attack that happened on Saturday. Media sources said at least 79 people were killed when a car bomb detonated during rush hour in the Somali capital. United Nations secretary general António Guterres on Saturday condemned the attack and reiterated UN’s commitment to support Somalia and its citizens in their pursuit of peace and development. “The secretary general strongly condemns the terrorist attack that took place in Mogadishu on 28 December 2019. He extends his deepest sympathies and condolences to the families of the victims and wishes speedy recovery to those injured. He stresses that the perpetrators of this horrendous crime must be brought to justice,” a statement by his spokesperson Stephane Dujarric said. The Africa Union Commission chairman Moussa Faki said the organisation will not relent in the face of such heinous crimes against humanity and nor be intimidated by acts of terrorism. “Our support to the Federal Government of Somalia and our mission in Somalia will maintain its resolve and commitment to see through its commitment to see through its mandate and to fulfill the legitimate desire of the people of Somalia to live in freedom, peace and security,” Faki said in a statement on Saturday. Turkey, which has invested in Somalia’s infrastructure and security, condemned the attack and dispatched a military airplane to fly the injured to Turkey for treatment. “Turkey, which emphasizes the importance of international cooperation in the fight against terrorism on every platform and having lost two citizens in this attack, will keep on providing support with determination to Somalia to establish peace, security and an environment for development and continue to be on the side of the brotherly people and Government of Somalia,” the country said in a statement. The plane arrived on Sunday and brought medical supplies and staff to support services at Recep Tayyip Erdoğan Hospital. Somalia’s Foreign Affairs Minister Ahmed Awad said they were grateful to Turkey for the support. “Turkey stood by us before, they do so again, in our worst moment. On behalf of my President, PM and the entire government and the people of Somalia, I wholeheartedly say thanks to President Recep Erdoğan and Turkey,” he said. While President Uhuru Kenyatta had not issued a statement by Sunday, Foreign Affairs CS Monica Juma in her condolence message said “Kenya remains steadfast in its solidarity with Somalia in the fight against terrorism in all its forms”. The attack occurred just five days after Chief of Defense Forces Samson Mwathethe said Kenyan troops will not pull out of Somalia until the al Shabaab threat has been completely neutralised. “We are in Somalia because we know that if Somalia is free of al Shabaab and terrorism, Kenya will also be free of the scourge. We must, therefore, ensure that we destroy the enemy here, to guarantee the destruction of the enemy at home,” Mwathethe said during a visit to Kenyan troops at the Kuday Forward Operating Base in Badhadhe District in Lower Juba region. The attack also comes at a time when there is an ongoing withdrawal of troops from Somalia, which has raised concerns about a security vacuum that a resurgent al Shabaab would exploit. Somalia President Mohamed Farmajo called for continued unity in the war on terrorism. "This dark day has robbed our nation of dozens of innocent lives, the perpetrators of this heinous act of terror will never dim the spirits of the people of Somalia. Let's join hands in countering this evil in our midst. Let’s move fast and help out the survivors," Farmaajo said in his recorded address. An October 2017 attack killed 587 people in Mogadishu but still, the first reduction of troops was done in December 2017. In line with the UN Security Council Resolution 2431 (2018), 1,000 troops were expected to withdraw in February this year in the second phase. Amisom mandate was extended by a year in May. In a unanimous decision adopting resolution 2472 (2019), the 15‑member council authorized reductions that would set a maximum level of 19,626 uniformed Amisom personnel by February 28, 2020, ahead of elections. While Western countries are pushing for a systematic withdrawal, Somalia and the region are opposed to the move due to unpreparedness. Hirshabelle President Mohamed Abdi Waaresaid on February 3 said if hurriedly implemented, the drawdown would leave his state vulnerable to attacks, adding that there is still work to be done to ensure successful implementation of the Transition Plan. President Kenyatta in November said Kenyan troops will remain in Somalia until al Shabaab is defeated. He was commissioning new cadet officers at the Kenya Military Academy in Lanet, Nakuru. “In pursuance of this objective and that of the international community, our troops will continue being part of Amisom until such a time that this objective has been achieved,” Uhuru said.