More than 6,000 cases will be affected after the Court of Appeal suspended all their sittings in Nyeri, Mombasa, Malindi and Kisumu due to a shortage of judges. Sources at the court told the Star that the judges shortage has affected 2,481 cases in Nairobi, 1,516 in Nyeri and Nakuru, i1,600 in Kisumu and Eldoret and 492 in Malindi/Mombasa. Appeal cases are handled by only 12 judges. “Of the 12 Judges, three are serving in Mombasa and three, until the passing on of Prof Justice Odek, were serving at Kisumu,” the president Court of Appeal Justice William Ouko said in a press statement. “The operations of the courts in Mombasa, Kisumu and Nyeri will be suspended starting January 13, when court sessions resume.” The twelve judges are now tasked with hearing cases from 118 High Court stations after President Uhuru Kenyatta refused to confirm 41 new judges, saying they have integrity issues. Chief registrar Anne Amadi  in her reply on November 5 said the delay, which undermined judicial independence,  aggravated the perennial problem of case backlog. Justices Philip Waki,  Erastus Githinji and Alnashir Visram are expected to retire this month. Out of the 12, three are handling the administrative duties. They are William Ouko (Court of Appeal president), Kathurima M’inoti (Judicial Training Institute director) and  Mohammed Warsame (JSC commissioner), “Pursuant to the provisions of Section 13 of the Court of Appeal (Organization and Administration) Act, 2015 and in consultation with the Chief Justice, it has been decided that, as long as the situation with regard to the number of judges in the Court of Appeal remains, the sittings of the court outside Nairobi are suspended with effect from January 13, 2020, the date of commencement of the Court’s new term,” Ouko said. Ouko on Friday said although the decision was regrettable, the situation is beyond control. “At the time of the decentralization and promulgation of the new Constitution there were 27 judges; three each deployed in Malindi, Kisumu, and Nyeri while the rest (18) remained in Nairobi, due to the heavy caseload in Nairobi,” Ouko said. Ouko said with passage time, this number (27) has gradually shrunk to 15 today following the retirement of several judges, the appointment of others to (other) higher government offices and the sudden death of  Odek.