DPP Noordin Haji has ordered the arrest and the prosecution of Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko over graft. Haji said he had sufficient evidence to warrant the prosecution of Sonko as well as senior City Hall officials following a review of the investigation file handed to the DPP by the EACC. "I have ordered for the immediate arrest and arraignment of Sonko and other officials for the crimes of conflict of interest arising from having received money from the county of Nairobi while serving as governor, unlawful acquisition of public property, money laundering and other economic crimes," Haji said. Speaking to the press on Friday, the DPP said the investigations have been challenging because of repeated attempts by the accused to obstruct the probe by the deployment of intimidation tactics by Sonko. The DPP said Sonko had used goons to threaten law enforcement officers carrying out their constitutional mandate. "The EACC investigations uncovered numerous instances of criminal conduct and a general disregard of the law by the governor and others being charged. The action of the accused showed a blatant disregard of the laws," Haji said. The DPP said the accused persons placed their own interests ahead of Nairobi residents. "This constitutes a clear and reprehensible abuse of the public trust. These individuals charged today chose to break laws..actions which must be held accountable," he added. Haji said the City Hall officials to be charged alongside Sonko facilitated and/or benefitted from the irregular procurement and payments amounting to Sh357 million. They are Peter Mbugua Kariuki (County Secretary), Patrick Mwangang'i (Head Supply Chain Management), Negotiation Tender Opening and Evaluation Committee members Samuel Ndung'u Mwangi, Edwin Kariuki Murimi, Lawrence Mwangi Mukuru, Preston Mwandiki Miriti. Others are senior clerical officers Wambua Ndaka, Andrew Nyasiego. Also to be charged are private persons and business entities that benefitted from funds irregularly acquired from the Nairobi City County Government. They are Anthony Mwaura Ng’ang’a, RoseNjeriNg’ang’a (Directors Hardi Enterprises Limited and Toddy Civil Engineering Ltd), Hardi Enterprises Ltd, Toddy Civil Engineering Ltd, Arbab Auto Limited, ROG Security Ltd, High Energy Petroleum Ltd and Antony Otieno Ombok (Director,ROG Security Ltd ,Arbab Auto Limited & High Energy Petroleum Ltd). Also found criminally culpable for money laundering to a tune of Sh24.1million are Directors of Web Tribe Ltd Danson Muchemi Njunji, Robert Muriithi Muna, Zablon Onyango Ochomom (agent) and Fredrick Odhiambo (Partner T/A Yiro Enterprises).