 Nairobi public transporters have rejected City Hall's increment of parking fees, saying it has no justification. City Hall on Monday announced it would double parking charges from Sh200 to Sh400 for motorists beginning Wednesday. Charges for matatus would increase from Sh3,650 to Sh5,000 for 14-seater vehicles per month. Thirty-two-seater matatus are to pay Sh8,000 from Sh5,200 while 51-seater buses had their charges increased from Sh7,500 to Sh10,000. On Wednesday, High Court Judge James Makau suspended the implementation of the new charges until a case filed by the Consumer Federation of Kenya is heard and determined. During a press conference on Wednesday, the Federation of Public Transport Operators said the county government does not deserve to collect higher parking fees. The operators said City Hall had failed to support the public transport sector. Led by the Association of Bus Operators of Kenya chairman Edwin Mukabana, they said Governor Mike Sonko's administration had failed provide and maintain infrastructure for public transport. "As the county seeks to collect increased parking charges from public service vehicles, we have seen no movement by the county government to dedicate parking bays like those allocated to private cars. We deserve decent bays and not just spaces along streets and avenues," Mukabana said. He said the county had also failed to provide free public toilets, more bus stations and stops, modernised and improved roads and dedicated bus lanes. The federation said street lighting and security at bus stations and stops remain poor with muggings and pickpocketing rampant. "To some point, some PSVs have stopped using some facilities at night and employ personnel to frisk passengers entering our vehicles. Our members have also to tout as a way of providing information to passengers since the county provides the passengers with no information," Mukabana said. The official said public transport facilities had been encroached, denying boarding and alighting passengers walkways, something he said had created conflict between operators and their customers. Mukabana said they were also incurring huge operational costs and accused City Hall of impounding charges, high cost of compliance, and taxation. "The county is issuing multiple licenses for the same business instead of a single business permit and we are paying high fees to people manning stages instead of the county personnel," Mukabana said. Matatu Owners Association chairman Simon Kimutai said they were also spending a lot of money on vehicle repair and maintenance owing to bad roads. "We have some roads in Nairobi which are impassable with big potholes leading to increased cost of vehicle maintenance, yet we are already paying the seasonal parking fees for no services," he said. The federation demanded they be exempted from paying parking charges and instead an urban transport principal that requires PSVs to pay less fees compared to private motorists be implemented. "With the use of technology, the county should look for modern and innovative ways of collecting revenue other than targeting the PSVs," Kimutai said. The transporters asked City Hall to revert to the previous parking charges payment structure that starts from a particular date of the month that same date the next month. "Increasing parking fees could result in fare increases which we have advised our members to manage. We do not want to pass the pain over to our commuters who are already feeling the pinch of a tough economy," Kimutai said.  edited by peter obuya