A total of 53 police officers have died in the line of duty this year. A plaque unveiled by Interior CS Fred Matiang'i and IGP Hillary Mutyambai at Administration Police Training College on December 5 shows that the AP unit bore the greatest bulk of the deaths, losing 26 officers on assignment. The regular police unit had seven officers killed in the line of duty while Kenya Prison Service lost one, the data on the plaque shows. The number unveiled by the CS could be far lower considering that it did not include seven officers who died a day later on December 6 in Mandera county when a bus they were traveling in was attacked by suspected Al shabaab terrorists. It did also not include ten officers from Harhar GSU camp in Garissa county who died on October 12. Their vehicle ran over improvised explosive devices (IEDs) at Degoh road between Liboi and Damajale, a police report indicated. Moreover, the Mandera bus attack that claimed the lives of seven officers was carried out by suspected Al Shabaab in a similar fashion to the October Garissa attack. The attack was on a bus owned by Medina bus company and it happened at Kotulo area, claiming the lives of a total of 10 people including the seven officers. The bus is said to have been on a lonely stretch of road as it traveled between the towns of Wajir and Mandera close to the border with Somalia. The 10 victims were shot at close range after being separated from the non-ethnic Somalis, local accounts said. Part of the 34 officers indicated to have given their lives to the country included eight killed in June this year when an APC vehicle they were traveling in step onto an IED. The explosive went off, blowing the vehicle into pieces. They were patrolling the Konton area along the border with Somalia. Two more officers not part of the official figure were killed after they were ambushed by a gang of thugs in Kayole in Nairobi on November 8 at night. The two officers were shot in the neck by the criminals that reports say had been trailing them. The officers were of corporal rank and were from Obama police station. They were killed near the Saika-Kayole bridge. The figures not included in the official plaque attracted criticism from among the police A senior police official at Vigilance House who requested not to be named told the Star the numbers unveiled at ATPC "were clearly inaccurate" and that he had raised objections against the wrong data on the monument. "This is what you get when you give crucial roles to incompetent officials. I queried why we are unveiling the data but I was told it would be corrected. How do you put out a wrong thing then correct later?" the officer asked. Multiple efforts to get police spokesperson to comment on the mystery of the data were futile as he did not return our call or answer our messages. The number of the officers who perished in their line of assignment could be higher than 53. The January Dusit attack claimed lives of police officers but the details and numbers have not been unveiled by the government. What, however, is in the public domain is that one GSU officer, Japhet Ndunguja, perished as he responded to the attack. He was later buried in Taita Taveta in a ceremony attended by CS Matiang'i and former police boss Joseph Boinnet. Speaking when unveiling the commemorative monument earlier this month, Matiang'i called for support to police officers "as they literally give their lives to ensure we are peaceful, pursuing our businesses." "In civilized democracies, police officers or members of the military are revered, given way in hospitals, airports and other places of public utility. They understand what personal cost the officers put in ensuring we are peaceful," he added. The CS also vowed to establish a charitable trust to cater for the welfare of police officers and their families. "We need to put every effort to ensure that as the officers leave for assignment, virtually walking to danger, we care for their welfare and that of their families. Our officers run towards danger as we scamper for safety, away from it," he said. Police IG Hillary Mutyambai said he expected the widows of the officers compensated promptly by the end of January .