There was confusion on Tuesday after Kenyan rapper King Kaka and the DCI differed on his being summoned over his controversial song 'wajinga nyinyi' (foolish ones). The rapper took to Twitter to say he had been summoned. His manager Dennis Njenga confirmed his being summoned, as did activist Boniface Mwangi, who said Kaka had told him as such. However, the DCI dismissed the claim, warning Kenyans against using its office to seek publicity. "Anybody wishing for publicity should be warned to desist from using the DCI as platform in seeking media attention," read the tweet. The Interior ministry also termed Kaka's claim he had been summoned 'fake'. Nonetheless, Kaka, dressed in a black T-shirt and pants white sneakers and a double chain with cross, made his way to the DCI offices. Upon reaching, he was turned away, with the DCI saying no one had summoned him. Kaka was accompanied by supporters, most conspicuous of which included Boniface, who himself has previously found himself on the wrong side of the law due to his overt attack on politicians over corruption. In 2017, Boniface released a video in which was a premonition of his death. He said his attack of corrupt politicians had led to death threats and he feared for his life. Boniface coined the term 'M-Pigs'. He was the public face of the demonstration where protesters stormed Parliament and released a pig and about a dozen piglets. They did this to express anger at the newly elected MPs’ demands for higher salaries. Kaka has instead used his music to vent. Since the release of Wajinga Nyinyi last Saturday, Kaka has been trending on social media. The song was a direct hit on Kenya’s tattered social fabric which has been permeated with corruption at all levels. He also took a swipe at controversial pastors, politicians and other personalities who are involved in corruption. Since Saturday, the rapper has repeatedly said that his life is in danger from people has not yet named. Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru, who was adversely mentioned in the song, has also threatened to sue the rapper for defamation.