The 2007 world 800m champion Janeth Jepkosgei's life after retirement is slowly taking shape as the Kapkemoiywo athletics camp in Nandi County continues to flourish. Established in 2015, the camp is currently home to 86 junior runners, preparing for the 2020 World Under 20 Championships set for between July 7 and 12 at Moi Stadium, Kasarani. The camp started with 40 athletes but has grown to the current capacity, where 50 are under the Athletics Kenya/government programme. The athletes aged between 13 and 17 years are drawn from Nandi, Narok, Kericho and Uasin Gishu counties."My dream is to have my own camp, complete with a gym, where I can continue giving back to the society, which moulded me to the person I am today," said Jepkosgei. "Currently, I am receiving support from schools, who often offer scholarships where 10 are studying at Kaprisang Secondary School, Kapchemoiywo and St. Francis Kaplenyeloi. "I grew up loving athletics and I am glad my father supported me. I now want to change the life if these young athletes by offering the support they need to prosper in both athletics and education, which will help shape their future." Jepkosgei observed that there has been challenges in getting the right equipment for training as well as limited resources. "We have so many athletes who want to join us but going by the limited resources we have, it has been difficult to accommodate all of them," said the former world junior 800m champion. With the help of coach Claudio Bennaderi, she said she is  trying to monitor those who have cleared Form Four to ensure  they continue with their studies and athletics. However, she said she will not relent on her quest to have a top of the range camp."I am still continuing with my scouting efforts with the help of teachers from the various schools since there is still a lot of untapped talent, not only in Nandi but across the country," added Jepkosgei. The lanky runner is a decorated celebrity, having won international titles and medals in a career spanning over a decade and a half. Starting with a World Junior 800m title in Jamaica in 2002, she went on to win a gold medal at the 2006 Commonwealth Games in Melbourne, gold and silver at the 2010 and 2006 Continental Cup, won gold at the 2007 World Champions in Osaka and silver at both the 2009 Berlin and 2011 Daegu editions. She was also a silver medalist behind Pamela Jelimo at the 2008 Olympic Games in Beijing, China.