Kenyan athletes are free to form an athletes’ association to guide and manage their welfare once they retire from sports. With many athletes suffering after hanging their running gear, Athletics Kenya President Jack Tuwei said such an association will help cater for services such as medical insurance, savings, pension amongst other pertinent issues facing them. “We need to come up with a solution before this seminar comes to an end. The athletes are open to engagements before the final resolution is made at the final day of the conference on Saturday. We must have a solution,” said Tuwei while addressing track and field athletes on the second day of the Athletes' seminar being held in Eldoret. “We already have such experienced individuals to talk about this topic. As a federation, we have done our best and a resolution will be found in this forum. Whatever they will settle on, then we are ready to support them." The four-day event was divided into two where road running athletes’ seminar was held on Wednesday as well as tackling the anti-doping menace that has marooned the country, to leave it in the IAAF category 'A'. “I know that roadrunners had successful sessions on Wednesday where the AIU officials came to introduce a new programme. I am convinced that the road running athletes have now understood their obligations,” said Tuwei. Meanwhile, world marathon record holder Eliud Kiphoge and world half marathon record holder Geoffrey Kamworor have the seminar could not have come at a better time and place. Both runners, who are currently offseason, said apart from classwork, there is team building, which has is a good element especially when heading out for major championships. "The sessions are unique, a good combination of team building and classwork. With team building out of class, it removes tension from a runner after sitting for long,” said Kipchoge, a two-time Berlin marathon champion. Kamworor, the two time New York marathon champion said it was good for Athletics Kenya to consider taking the seminar to Eldoret since it is somewhat neutral for most runners. “This is the place where most athletes come from. It is the epicentre of all athletes and the centre for both athletes from South Rift, North Rift and all parts of Kenya,” said the one-time world 10,000m silver medalist. He added that Nandi Uasin Gishu and Elgeyo Marakwet are the counties with the majority of runners which is an advantage. The proximity has made many athletes turn up in large numbers. “Apart from the anti-doping issues, we have been taught on teamwork as Kenyan runners, a place we sometimes fail to do hence losing some races,” said Kamworo. 