The Council of Governors chairperson Wycliff Oparanya has said the national government is trying to micromanage county governments by withholding its funds. Kakamega county boss spoke on Saturday while addressing a funeral gathering for William Wamalwa Big, the son of former Vice President Michael Wamalwa at Milimani in Kitale. Oparanya directed his discontent to the Devolution PS Charles Sunkuli who was present at the funeral. His remarks were echoed by his Trans Nzoia counterpart Patrick Khaemba and Shinyalu MP Justus Kizito. They said most counties are facing cash problems due to failure by the counties to pay pending bills to the suppliers. They added that the delay has also paralysed payment of salaries to the employees of the county governments. Oparanya said governors are independent and they know who and what to pay for and at what time, adding that counties are tired with circulars from the national government telling them on what to do. Kizito said governors are presidents in their respective counties and therefore the national government officials ought to show them respect but not teaching them on their roles. "You Sunkuli, just know that governors are presidents in their counties and you should stop telling them to pay pending bills, which bills, some contractors have not supplied them with anything and it's upon the governors to pay those who supplied without necessarily being pushed by you," said Kizito. Others who attended the function were Senate speaker Ken Lusaka, Saboti MP Caleb Amisi, his Kimilili counterpart Didmus Barasa and John Waluke of Sirisia. Lusaka and Khaemba asked leaders from Western and Rift valley to unite and meet the president on the way forward on sugar and maize farming which has deteriorated. At the same time, political temperatures went higher after Kizito and Barasa engaged over Raila Odinga. Barasa had said the opposition should accept defeat in 2022 and because he is hopeful he will be interior CS by that time, he will ensure they are arrested and jailed. "You should respect leaders, we have Eugene, Oparanya and others can be the president. Raila is not in your league" responded Kizito. Wamalwa Big died last Sunday and according to the family, he succumbed to Diabetes. The late Vice President died in 2003 leaving behind a big family.