The Star Newspaper held its fourth quarter journalist awards on Thursday at Radio Africa Group newsroom. The awards recognise employees who do exemplary work. The awards were presided over by Radio Africa Group CEO Patrick Quarcoo, The Star chief operations officer Agnes Kalekye, head of Content Paul Ilado and general manager for digital, Caroline Mutoko. Secretary of the Public Prosecution Dorcas Oduor was the chief guest who attended on behalf of DPP Noordin Haji. She challenged newspapers to produce news that stands out, rather than the usual stories. She was joined by Editors Guild CEO Rosalia Omungo. Quarcoo said Radio Africa Group's brands continue to dominate the market, including Radio Jambo, which is listened to by more than 30 million people. The CEO added that Classic 105 and Kiss 100 are the leading English radio stations in the country. Ilado said he was impressed by the performance of the team. "In January I requested all of us to return to the basics of journalism and establish strong values of hard work, discipline and to treating each other as human beings," he said. "I’m proud of all of you for what you have done to see us all realise those values. Despite the many challenges we have faced, you have punched way above your weight by producing consistently high-quality stories." Business journalist Victor Amadala emerged the overall winner and was crowned the journalist of the quarter. He also scooped the business journalist of the quarter award. He was rewarded for his relentless efforts in writing business stories and was described as the 'sunshine of the business desk'. Patrick Vidija emerged as the best digital journalist, whiles Moses Odhiambo picked the award for the best political writer. Maureen Kinyanjui was awarded the best correspondent for staying on top of City Hall and Nairobi county news. Susan Muhindi was awarded as the court reporter of the quarter. Enos Teche emerged the best photographer of the quarter as Rosa Momanyi emerged as the best designer for the paper. Victor Simani received a prize for being the best radio journalist of the quarter, with a special mention given to Emmanuel Wanjala. For feature writing, Malemba Mkongo was awarded and a special mention was given to Esther Njeri. Sports journalist of the year was Francis Wadegu and the sub-editor of the quarter was Eliud Kibii, with a special mention to Annah Ndung'u. In the entertainment segment, Elizabeth Musyimi was awarded as the entertainment journalist of the quarter. Aidah Mutua was also recognised for her role in keeping the office clean and ensuring it is conducive for work. Editors were also recognised for their continued efforts to ensure news is delivered. They include Francis Mureithi, Joseph Olweny, Jillo Kadida, Tom Jalio, Susan Kiprono, Oliver Mathenge, Grace Kerongo as well as Illado. Quarcoo reiterated the importance of innovation as the new year beckons.