The public should be given time to read and endorse the Building Bridges Initiative report in a referendum, ANC Nominated MP  Godfrey Osotsi has said. Osotsi said the politicians who are advocating for the report to be implemented through Parliament want to shortchange it. “Those who were against the handshake and the BBI are the ones advocating for the assembly because they are fully aware if it goes the public way,  there will be no manipulation of it,” Osotsi said. The lawmaker said the report was compiled in the public interest hence wananchi should be given time to go through it and have a say. The lawmaker said that the Tangatanga faction of Jubilee Party is trying to use the BBI report to suit their interests. He spoke on Sunday at Esiandumba Primary in Mwibona ward in Luanda subcounty during a funds drive for women groups in the area. “The BBI should fulfil the interest of the common Kenyans. Let’s have inclusivity and end political tension that we experience after every election cycle,” Osotsi said. Luanda MP Christopher Omulele said the BBI will end the monopoly of leadership in the country where only two communities have held the presidency. “Since Independence, we have been led by Kikuyu and the Kalenjin. What of the remaining tribes? Does it mean they don’t know how to lead?” Omulele asked. The legislators urged all leaders in Vihiga to work together to ensure development in the county. Osotsi said 2022 politics should not be given space so that leaders can focus on developing their areas. Omulele said those advising Governor Wilber Ottichillo have failed to help him realise development for the county. But Ottichillo said a single term for governors was not sufficient for them to able to deliver their mandate to the residents. “The first term is quite complicated to any leader who is assuming the office.  You need to rearrange yourself, organise your staff, start planning. With all that you get the first term is over,” Ottichillo said. Omulele urged Ottichillo to up his game to deliver his manifesto to Vihiga people.