The biggest challenge to Nairobi City Stars seemingly unstoppable march towards a quick return to the topflight league will be lack of focus, reckons coach Sanjin Alagin. Yesterday, the Kawangware-based side claimed their 13th win of the campaign as they dispatched struggling St. Joseph 2-0 to improve their points tally to 43 in 17 unbeaten matches. "We created many chances and somehow we scored only two goals. The players perhaps underestimated our opponents and that is the danger. If we are to achieve our objectives, we need to have tactical discipline no matter the opponent. The players must maintain their focus throughout," remarked Alagin. City Stars dominated possession early on against a timid St. Joseph without really creating much. Oliver Maloba, their enterprising winger was guilty of showboating when a simple pass to a teammate would have sufficed, earning him rebuke from Alagin. St.Joseph had looked disjointed throughout and were panicky while in possession. It came as no surprise when defender Kevin Atsiayo's headed back pass allowed Anthony Kimanzi to nick the ball ahead of goalkeeper George Ouma allowing Davis Amuyunzu to simply tap the ball into an empty net in the 20th minute. From then on, it seemed there was no way back for the visitors. Amuyunzu thought he had doubled City Stars lead only for it to be chalked out for a marginal offside. Confusion between City Stars custodian Levis Opiyo and defender Kevin Okumu nearly allowed Daniel Kamau to claim an unlikely equaliser. St. Joseph finished the half strongly with captain Salim Okoth forcing Opiyo into a sprawling save. By then Elvis Onyango had been replaced by Joseph Shitsoka. The Nakuru based outfit were still the better side in the second half and perhaps should have won a penalty in the 55th minute when Kamau fell in the box under the challenge of Salim Abdalla. Moments later City Stars went further ahead when Kimanzi sprung a halfhearted attempt at an offside trap to round the keeper and score. Shitsoka then was stretched off to be replaced by Kennedy Onyango. Teddy Siwa too came on and suddenly St. Joseph enjoyed their best moments but had left it late to get anything from the game.