Following allegations by Machakos governor Alfred Mutua that Deputy President William Ruto’s handshake can be too firm and even threatening, a chief in Budalangi perhaps wanted to have a first hand experience. As Ruto was congratulating boat rowers at the International Isambo Beach Carnival on Sunday, youths thronged the area for a handshake with the Deputy President. A local chief, in uniform, was among them and the administrator kept stretching his hand to greet Ruto. The Deputy President possibly ignored the chief and shook the hands of the teenagers but the administrator was persistent and had his hand stuck out until Ruto left the area after having enough handshakes with the young ones. Just who is out to make life difficult for Kenya Broadcasting Corporation (KBC) staffers? Well, all is not well as the workers are forced to spend their nights in vans when on duties outside Nairobi. Those in the know say the corporation's finance department has been duping staff that their per diem will be sent via Mpesa only for the staff to be left stranded. Recently, staffs spent a night under similar circumstances while on an activity that was fully sponsored by a client. A taskforce on the Improvement of Government Information and Public Communications has completed work. Its yet to be made public report is said to have damning insights on disconnect in government communication. Some government ministries will be put on the spot for hiding information from the public, the Kenya Wildlife Service being a good example. A small bird whispered to the Corridors that senior officials within the service are not allowed to even attempt to talk to the media. This is despite the fact that KWS has been promoting the much-hyped open-door policy. A female Member of Parliament from Rift Valley was kicked out of a popular regional WhatsApp group for nauseating habit of dropping porn and other adult content. The MPs were infuriated that the randy MP kept throwing lewd stuff at the most inopportune moment when the conversation is at fever pitch or when important stuff are canvassed in the elected leaders only group. If it is not near-naked dancing, the lawmaker is said to be posting forwarded texts with pornographic content every time colleagues are discussing something important. After failing to read the moods of her colleagues, the administrators of the group to kick her out.