Parliament has directed the government to pay 39 former soldiers Sh222 million for unfair dismissal and harsh treatment during the 1982 coup attempt. The Senate endorsed a report by the National Security, Defence and Foreign Relations Committee recommending immediate compensation of the former Kenya Airforce officers. The court awarded the solders for the inhumane treatment they were subjected to, but the government has continued to ignore the directive. “The committee recommends that the Government of Kenya, through the Ministry of Defence, honours the court orders and immediately settles the awards due to the petitioners plus costs and interest accrued following the date of judgment as provided,” reads the report. The Garissa Senator Yusuf Haji-led committee said that the officers are undergoing untold pain and suffering, three decades after the incident, despite the court award. The committee inquired into the matter following a petition by a David G. Njau, on behalf of the solders, to the Senate. In the petition, the solders said that they were arrested, tortured, detained and imprisoned for periods spanning from six to several years and then dismissed unlawfully and unconditionally from the Kenya Airforce without compensation. They filed several petitions in the High Court and were awarded different settlement by different judges on diverse dates. When she appeared before the committee in July, Defence CS Rachel Omamo said the government had appealed the court’s decision to award the soldiers. The CS further told the committee that the case was currently before the pending bills awaiting clearance but indicated the amounts had not be included in the Ministry’s current year budget. “The government, through the Ministry of Defence, should present the resolution of the Pending Bills Committee on the payment for Petition No.49 of 2012 within one month of the adoption of this Report by the House,” it reads. The committee also read mischief in the ministry’s decision to appeal the court decision seven years later, terming it  a waste of taxpayers money and an afterthought calculated to cause further delay. On August 1, 1982, junior airforce solders, mainly from Eastleigh and Laikipia airbases, staged a takeover of the then President Daniel Moi’s government. They formed a nine man-group and named it the People’s Redemption Council. They appointed senior private Hezekiah Ochuka as PRC's temporary leader. However, the coup collapsed and PRC fled to Tanzania where they were granted asylum. They were extradited to Nairobi the following year. They were tried for high treason and convicted to hang in 1984 and put to death in 1987.