State House spokesperson Kanze Dena has dismissed claims that Deputy President William Ruto was locked out of a meeting during the BBI launch at the Bomas of Kenya. Her sentiments come after a clip went viral showing a 'dejected' Ruto outside one of the rooms at Bomas. The video sent tongues wagging as netizens concluded that the country's second-in-command had been locked out of a meeting between President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga before the start of the function on November 27. Some of the security officers' on black suits and some on white suits appeared to stand in front of the DP. But according to Kanze, Kenyans went 'too far' by making their own stories over the matter without knowing what really transpired before and after the viral video. Kanze, who spoke on Thursday at State House, said that Uhuru, Ruto, and Raila were inside the same room, only that the DP was quick to come out of the meeting before the others. "Kinachonishangaza ni kwamba hakuna aliyenukuu wote watatu wakiingia, wakafanya mkutano wote wakamaliza, wakawa wanangoja kutoka na yeye(Ruto) ndiye aliwatangulia kutoka," she said. The State House spokesperson blamed the media for isolating a section of the whole event and making their own perception from the scene. Kanze also urged the media to refrain from creating an allusion that the President and his deputy are not reading from the same script. "We made a perception without understanding what was going on...we are reporting things that we don't know exactly what was happening and we go back to report that there is a division between His Excellency and his deputy. Let's just be a bit cautious and a bit careful," Kanze said. She added that Uhuru had made it clear during the unveiling of the BBI Report that Kenyans should take their time to read and understand the report on their own. She reiterated the President's caution against politicising the BBI report and called for sober deliberations devoid of divisive politics that threaten the cohesion, stability, and unity of the nation.