The government has assured Palestine it will support its push for an independent and sovereign state in its conflict with Israel. Kenya Ambassador to UNEP Rose Makena said the country aligns itself to the African Union’s position. The AU advocates for the achievement of a two-state solution through negotiations based on the relevant UN resolutions. The government assured Palestine of its commitment and support towards the realisation of permanent peace in which the state of Palestine is realised. However, the move would require that Israel’s security concerns are guaranteed under a mutually negotiated two-state solution framework. Makena spoke in Nairobi during the observance of the International Day of Solidarity with the Palestinian People. She said the day provides a forum for UN member states to encourage and give support and publicity to the cause of the Palestinian people. The envoy said that Kenya has consistently voted in favour of all resolutions on Palestine statehood and for peaceful resolution of the Israel-Palestine conflict. “Kenya supports the Quartet Peace Plan and the Annapolis Declarations which affirms the commitment to the fulfilment of the vision of two states; a safe and secure Israel and a sovereign contiguous democratic Palestine, living side by side in harmony,” she said. She added that Kenya is convinced that a lasting solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict will contribute to international peace and security. Palestinian Ambassador to Kenya Hazem Shabat appreciated the efforts by the government and others states in making sure there is peace. “We have accepted international legislation and international law as the arbiter for resolving the conflict,” he said. He said Palestine has actively engaged with all international partners in the path of political negotiations. It has also used dialogue and popular resistance to resolve and achieve a peace agreement that leads to independence and ends the occupation, he said. Unfortunately, Israel, the occupying power, has not reciprocated this will for achieving peace, the envoy said. “[Israel] has consciously pursued delaying tactics in the negotiations track coupled with devastating measures of warfare and illegal actions of oppression and apartheid,” he added. Also at the event were the Senegalese ambassador, dean of the diplomatic corps,  dean of Arab states among others. (edited by O. Owino)