A SENIOR PROCUREMENT official at a parastatal in the energy sector is the talk of the town. The officer, barely 30 years old, was employed three years ago but his lifestyle has puzzled many. While the procurement field has for a long time been regarded as a lucrative profession, the young man's love for the finer things of life is puzzling. Within three years of his employment, he has acquired three six-storey flats in Nairobi's Kasarani estate. The officer also has tracts of land along Kangundo road which he has subdivided and is selling small plots for a fortune. Whether the young man is living clean or he is a beneficiary of wanton graft associated with procurement entities is a matter that is perplexing his acquaintances. Claims abound he is a conduit of a disgraced ex-parastatal head. AN INFLUENTIAL DEPUTY governor from Nyanza said to hobnob with Deputy President William Ruto has stirred political waters with his bid to succeed his boss in 2022. The deep pockets DG is laying the ground for his gubernatorial bid but his opponents are scheming to block him. A group opposed to his ambitions is gathering evidence following claims that he fraudulently acquired a piece of land near his home, thus disinheriting a widow. It is alleged that, after grabbing the land, he settled the widow on a property about 10 kilometres away from her clan, where she is viewed as an alien. There are reports that the size of the land he acquired for the widow is just an eighth of her original land. The daggers are now drawn in what promises to be a vicious legal duel. THAT A WEALTHY city businessman, who was one of the heaviest casualties in besieged governor Mike Sonko's clampdown against illegal structures, is a happy man is no secret. The businessman could be the happiest person following the governor's detention on graft charges. On the day the embattled county boss was arrested in Voi, the businessman phoned a couple of associates to invite them for a goat eating session at an upscale club in Milimani. Coming against the backdrop of claims that the county government was unfairly targeting him after pulling down some of his structures, the tycoon had no reason to hide his joy. Another 'parte after parte' would be coming down at a popular joint on Mombasa road in a few days. A FORMER POWERFUL MP in retired President Daniel Moi's era could be plotting a political comeback. The politician, who has been critical of DP William Ruto for a long time, is reported to be working on a strategy to join the DP's political camp ahead of 2022. Despite his age, the Rift Valley power broker in his heydays believes that he can mount a formidable challenge against a vocal MP seen as Ruto's key ally in the region. Call it an unfolding titanic political showdown as the ex-minister seeks to prove his 'reserve energy' to take on the youthful MP. 