City motorists within the Central Business District will now start to feel the cost of parking fees as new charges are to take effect on Wednesday. In a notice issued by the county’s Director of Parking Tom Tinega, motorists in the CBD will pay Sh 400 from the previous Sh200. The parking charges have been categorised as Zone One (CBD) at Sh400, Zone Two (Parklands , Westlands ,Gigiri, allsops,Yaya centre, Community, Kilimani, Upper Hill, Nairobi West, Buruburu, Eastleigh, Umoja, Makadara, Madaraka, Kayole, Donholm, Karen) at Sh 200. Zone Three includes all commercial centres not mentioned in Zone One and Two at Sh100. Tinega said motorists will be required to top up the charges when moving to a zone with a higher charge. Seasonal parking for private vehicles also will be effective with Sh7,000 for one month, Sh18,000 for three months, Sh32,000 for six months and Sh55,000 for 12 months. The one month seasonal parking ticket previously cost Sh5,000, while the three-month one was Sh15,000. For loss of the seasonal ticket, private vehicles will have to pay Sh1,000 for each ticket. Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko assented the Nairobi City County Bill, 2019 on September 25 after it was passed by the county assembly . While commending City Hall for coming up with measures to raise revenue, county assembly Finance, Budget and Appropriation Committee chairman Robert Mbatia said parking fees adjustments should have been modest to minimise corruption at the collection level. Mbatia, at the same time, was concerned by the delay in the implementation of the Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) to decongest the CBD by giving Nairobians an alternative mode of transport. "As much as we are attempting to decongest the CBD by discouraging motorists to come with their vehicles, what have we done to give them alternative methods of transport?" he asked. Mbatia said the BRT should have been in place by now. To pay for parking, dial *235#  and use the step by step instructions. City Hall has struggled to raise revenues needed to upgrade roads and clear garbage in a county where salaries and allowances gobble more 60 per cent of its total income. Nairobi Public Accounts Committee (PAC) said in May 2018 that City Hall loses at least Sh1.2 billion in revenues unaccounted for fees on clamped vehicles and corrupt parking attendants.