Deputy governors have opened a new battlefront with their bosses after they supported a radical court ruling barring governors facing graft charges from accessing their offices. Deputy governors, many of whom are not in good terms with their bosses, want those charged with corruption to immediately step aside and allow them (deputies) to take over. Through the Deputy Governors Forum, they said their backing of the ruling is in line with their commitment to support accountability at the county level. “On this premise, the DGF concurs with the Mumbi Ngugi ruling which pronounced that state officers must step aside when charged with corruption,” they said in a statement. Their public pronouncement is likely to further complicate their frosty relationship with some governors given that they are locked in frequent conflicts. The deputy county bosses threw another spanner in the works after they called on the courts to provide clarity on the exercise of executive authority when they step in after their bosses are charged. “However, the courts must consequently provide parameters within which a deputy governor can exercise this since as it stands, it is not clear to what extent can carry out his or her mandate as the acting governor,” the forum said after a consultative meeting on Monday. Signalling their war with governors, they also called for proper timeliness to guide county bosses in appointing a deputy whenever a vacancy arises. They said a proposed law by the Senate seeking to entrench the timeliness would be key in bridging the gaps in the law. “This will ensure that where vacancies arise, they are filled within a reasonable time without interfering with the running of the county governments." The statement was signed by Laikipia Deputy Governor John Mwaniki who chairs the forum. In her July 24 ruling, Justice Ngugi instructed that elected executives cannot continue to attend office when facing corruption-related charges. In the ruling, Justice Ngugi held that governors, just like other civil servants, should step aside once charged with criminal offences and their roles taken over by their deputies for the duration of the trial. This was a major blow to the innocent-until-proven-guilty legal concept that has for many years allowed accused persons trappings of power despite court charges. The ruling elicited controversy in legal and political circles, with some experts taking the view that she overstepped her mandate. Governors Ferdinand Waititu (Kiambu), Moses Lenolkulal (Samburu) and Nairobi's Mike Sonko are the latest casualties of Ngugi's radical ruling. However, the decision by the deputy governors to throw their weight behind the ruling could set them against their bosses who on Monday vowed to challenge the ruling. Council of Governors chairman Wycliffe Oparanya, who has faulted the ruling, said governors charged with graft should be allowed to freely serve until their cases are heard and determined. “As a matter of common interest, the county governments will urgently move to court over the ruling as has been witnessed in the cases of Kiambu, Samburu and Nairobi counties,” he after a CoG meeting. Oparanya said the council would seek guidance from the Attorney-General or the Supreme Court. Edited by R.Wamochie