As the year comes to an end and we all reflect on our personal experiences, it is important that we appreciate the men and women who made 2019 a good year for Kenya on the global map. These from different aspects of life, sports, security or education have in one way or the other made Kenya proud. Clearly, the list is long and other very commendable individuals may not make this list, but that does not mean they are undeserving of respect and admiration. The following are the Kenyans that shone the country bright in the international stage. ELIUD KIPCHOGE For the better part the year, four-time marathon champion Eliud Kipchoge has dominated news headlines globally. This started when he made an iconic target of making a second stab at a sub-2-hour run, having missed out two years ago in Monza, Italy where he clocked 2:00:25. The historic race captured everyone’s attention as fans, athletes, friends, and family gathered in social; joints to follow the live streaming of the race Kipchoge, 35, became the first human to run 42 kilometres in under two hours in the Ineos challenge. He inspired many with the slogan, 'No human is limited'. President Uhuru Kenyatta in his message said the win will inspire future generations to 'dream big and aspire for greatness'. Kipchoge is among Kenyans who have been named in this year's top 100 most influential Africans in the New African magazine. In November, the world marathon record holder Kipchoge was crowned the IAAF male athlete of the year award during the World Athletics Gala in Monaco. TEACHER PETER TABICHI The humble teacher Peter Tabichi was yet another individual who put Kenya in the international limelight. The now Dettol hygiene ambassador made history by becoming the first African and male to win the prestigious Global Teachers Prize at a ceremony held in Dubai. The award honours one exceptional teacher every year who has made an outstanding contribution to the profession. The 37-year-old math and physics teacher at  Keriko Mixed Day Secondary School in Nakuru county, beat 9, 999 other contestants to take home the grand prize of $1 million (Sh100 million) in March. Tabichi was awarded for not only being a good teacher but also generously donating 80 per cent of his pay to keep poor learners in school. He was also privileged to meet with United States President Donald Trump at the White House on September 16. Tabichi said while at the White House, he discussed with POTUS education matters regarding Africa. He said he is going to use the prize money to make a difference in the education system in Kenya. He shared his passion to support STEM (Science Technology Engineering and Maths) projects in Kenya, Africa and elsewhere with an aim to get more experts who will make a difference in the world. LUPITA NYONG’O Award-winning actress Lupita Nyong’o returned in 2019 with a powerful, moving picture book called 'Sulwe', meaning Star. It is about colourism, self-esteem and learning that true beauty comes from within. In this stunning debut picture book, actress Lupita Nyong’o creates a heartwarming story to inspire children to see their own unique beauty. Lupita became the first African to win an Oscar when she received the award for Best Supporting Actress in 2014. "I wrote to encourage children (and everyone really!) to love the skin they are in and see the beauty that radiates from within," she wrote on her Instagram page. Brigid Kosgei Hardly 24 hours after World record holder Eliud Kipchoge broke the sub-two-hour barrier in Vienna, Brigid Kosgei followed suit after smashing the women's marathon record. Kosgei clocked 2:14:04 to become the youngest London marathon champion hence earning the title fastest woman. She broke the 16-year-old record held by British Paula Radcliffe by a massive minute and 21 seconds. Kosgei was among 11 nominees for the IAAF female athlete of the year award 2019. She, however, lost to Dalilah Muhammad from the USA.