The number of street children in Eldoret town increased to more than 2,500 this year, causing security concerns as some of them engage in crime. Uasin Gishu county police commander Johnstone Ipara warned parents who allow their children to live on the streets that they will be arrested and prosecuted. “We have a worsening problem of street families or children in Eldoret town and we will work with the county government and other agencies to ensure that they are identified and returned to their homes,” he said The county police boss spoke during a visit to Eldoret Rescue Centre where former street children live. Police officers were among well wishers who visited the centre to share Christmas celebrations with more than 100 children. Ipara said it was a crime for parents to neglect their children who end up suffering on the streets. He said such parents would be held responsible because the government had provided adequate support to ensure that all children are taken to school. Governor Jackson Mandago, his deputy Daniel Chemno, county commissioner Abdirisack Jaldesa and  Ipara called on residents to give extra support to the poor especially during the festive season. “Informed by the need to improve the lives of our people, we carried out thorough investigation, identified truly destitute street children and families and with the help of Governor Mandago and the county commissioner and  put them under government care at the rescue centre,” Ipara said. Ipara recognized several private organisations that partnered with his office in training and offering job opportunities to women and youth who have been identified through screening. “Now that we have identified bona fide cases of street families and taken care of them, we are now sounding a warning to lazy parents who send children to the streets. We are going after them and they will face the law,” Ipara said. Uasin Gishu chief officer for Education and Social Services Jane Njuguna received food, clothing and other donations amounting to over Sh500,000 from well wishers who visited the rescue centre. Mandago has set up a team of nurses, clinical officers and psychologists to take care of the children housed at the rescue centre. Njuguna said her department would send some of the children to vocational training centres where they will be trained on different crafts and life skills in order to make them self-reliant. Organizations that visited the rescue centre included Sirikwa Hotel, Romani couriers, Kenknit, Rafa Hospital and LFE Solutions.