The prime suspect in the murder of a woman and her two children failed to take a plea for the second time on Tuesday. This was after the prosecution told the court that he was yet to undergo a psychiatric examination. The court had directed that former Kenya Defence Forces Major Peter Mugure be escorted to Nyeri County Referral Hospital for a mental check when he first appeared in court on December 6. But Senior Assistant Director of Public Prosecutions (SADPP) Peter Mailanyi told Nyeri High Court judge Jairus Ngaah that the suspect was escorted to the hospital on December 12 but the psychiatrist was not available because it was a public holiday. “The prison authorities were advised to return him back to the hospital on December 19, 2019, for mental assessment,” he said. Mugure and two others were arrested in connection with the killing of Joyce Syombua, her 10-year-old daughter Shanice Maua and son Prince Michael, 5, in October. Mugure was the estranged husband of Syombua. Syombua and her children Maua and Michael, went missing on October 26. Syombua and her two children were discovered buried at Kilimo Indians’ cemetery in Thingithu area in Laikipia. Her estranged husband on November 16, 2019 led police to three bodies buried in a shallow grave at a cemetery in Nanyuki. Earlier, the SADPP had informed the court that the assessments are usually done on Thursdays. “For that reason, we don’t have a mental report and therefore we are not in a position to have the accused person take a plea.” He requested the court to postpone the plea-taking to December 20, so that the accused can be examined. But Mugure’s lawyer Doreen Kalli argued that the accused person has been in custody for a month. Mugure was arrested on November 15. She said the suspect appeared in court on December 6 and called on the court to give orders to have the suspect escorted for a mental assessment as soon as possible, including Tuesday afternoon. Kalli said the state had been given 21 days to conduct investigations, including carrying out a mental assessment that was not done. “No reasons were advanced before you on the 6, (December) as to why the same was not done between probably the 15 of November to the 6 of December,” said Kalli. “For that reason, we pray for your very direct orders to have the suspect escorted to another hospital, and not perhaps in Nyeri, today or even tomorrow for assessment,” Kalli said. She told the court this would enable the suspect to be presented on December 18 or 19. The judge, however, directed that the suspect be taken for mental exam and be brought to court on Friday, December 20. “In the meantime, you will be taken for a psychiatric assessment at the Nyeri PGH Hospital,” the judge ruled. Mugure is being held at King’ong’o Prison in Nyeri. Other suspects The second suspect is Collins Pamba, who is being held at Kerugoya Prison in Kirinyaga county until December 19, when he is expected to take a plea. Pamba was a casual worker at Laikipia airbase. However, the prosecution dropped any charges against the third suspect, Peter  Mwangi, and will instead use him as a prosecution witness. Pamba’s case is expected to be consolidated with that of Major Mugure, who (Mugure) was a husband to Syombua.  