Deputy President William Ruto has said that winning the presidency is secondary to him as compared to peace in the country. Ruto on Thursday said he should not be the reason why Kenya should experience a blood bath after the election. The DP was speaking at his Sugoi home in Uasin Gishu where he held a meeting with a delegation from the Mt Kenya region. "I don’t want Kenyans to fight because of me. I don’t want this country to take the route where people lose lives because of any politician. That is how serious I am and I want to promise you, kupata kiti, kukosa kiti, ifanyike ile itafanyika we want peace in this nation," he said. Ruto said he did not unite with President Uhuru Kenyatta to win election the 2013 election. "That was never our plan. We united because we wanted to eliminate hatred and tribal politics. Winning the election was just a bonus to the unity we had fostered," Ruto said. Ruto said with regards to his presidential bid, there comes no leader who is not ordained by God. "There is no leader not ordained by God, we are strong with that to ensure that Kenya moves forward," he said. Ruto dismissed the perceptions that he is not in good terms with Uhuru. He said as a matter of fact, he understands Uhuru so well because they have come a long way together. "I understand him because I know where we have come from and where we are headed... I  am sure that Kenya must change and I am committed to it, and I promise that it will change," Ruto said. He said furthering unity is the core responsibility of all leaders because if they are united they can focus on a common agenda and a shared purpose. "Leadership is about nurturing togetherness not division. Real unity is interfaith, inter-community and across regions," he said. Ruto said that cohesion is not a one off event and all Kenyans have to keep doing the work and stay engaged because it is everyone’s responsibility. "Our unity and hard-work portends the prosperity of the country. We should jealously guard it. The Jubilee leadership remains committed to its foundation principles of unity and transformation. Nothing will distract us from this course," Ruto said.