Two-time Africa Cup of Club Champions' silver medallist Exchequers from Ghana are lined up to play friendly matches against local clubs starting today at the Sikh Union Stadium. Exchequers, formerly Bank of Ghana, arrived in the country on Thursday for the Nairobi County Hockey Association Test Series. The West Africans  will play against four local Premier League sides. The teams include 2012 league winners who will also double up as hosts Sikh Union, 2019 runners up Wazalendo, Greensharks and Parkroad. The visitors will also face off with Kenya Select side twice. The Select team will feature outstanding players drawn from all the Premier League sides. KHU secretary general, Wycliffe Ongori said the objective of the Test Series is to  improve the standards of the game. “Exchequers are top side and playing against them will go along in improving the umpiring and technical aspects. We did not go to the African Club Championships and the event provides an opportunity to clubs to play a top side,” Ongori remarked. He continued: “Exchequers were supposed to go to the Africa Cup of Club Champions but finances arrived late and that's why they opted for Kenya. We  had no reason to decline their request because they had already made their arrangements with the hosts.” Greensharks coach Ben Owaga said the tournament is part of his team's preparations for the upcoming season. He intimated at fielding the players who are undergoing trials with the club with the view to signing them. Owaga ruled out on signing Premier League players. “Basically our preps have began. The match will mostly be used to test the players we are looking to sign. Our signings will be players from the lower leagues because we want to nurture them. We need to strengthen every position and four players will be the maximum." Exchequers dominated Ghana hockey between 1988 and 2000 with their players forming the core of the national team. It was the first club to represent Ghana in the first ACCC held in Cairo, Egypt in 1988.