 There has been unfair media coverage and criticism of Masaai Mara University over alleged corruption and mismanagement, acting vice-chancellor Kitche Magak has said. Speaking during the university's graduation ceremony on Friday, Magak said the institution has received adverse media coverage in the recent past that has dented the reputation they have built over the years. During the ceremony, 2,300 graduands were awarded degrees and diplomas. The institution has hogged the attention of the country for the last three months after a TV expose in which its top leaders were accused of embezzling cash. The reports led to the suspension of vice-chancellor Mary Walingo leading to the appointment of Magak as a replacement. Magak said the negative coverage does not tell the full story about the image of the university and that "there are a lot more positive things happening in this university than our public image allows to shine through" and that if not so,  the institution could have closed down. Pleading for fairness, Magak said the university has a global recognition (due to the famous Masaai Mara National Park) and that this should not be ruined by the allegations in which culpability has not been proven. He said the university was taking the negative coverage in strides and that it was working hard to change the narrative. "My plea, therefore, to the public, especially to our politicians and the media, please do critique the university with fairness and sensitivity that does not damage its reputation and potential unnecessarily," he said. "Please do not throw out the baby with the bathwater.  The university is not your enemy." Magak said the institution welcomed criticism, but that they should be constructive and aimed at supporting it to exploit its potential for the benefit of the public. "We operate an open-door policy and encourage constructive criticism that will help us move this great university to the next level of research, innovation and knowledge dissemination," Magak said.  edited by p.o 