Radio Africa Group went down fighting in the 2019 Betway Sports Journalists Association of (SJAK) Sports Day at Moi Stadium, Kasarani over thew weekend. The event, graced by Sports Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohammed, saw Radio Africa place 8th out of 13 teams with 66 points. In the 4x100m relay, Radio Africa was eliminated in semis while in football 5-aside, they reached the quarters, where they succumbed to defending Capital FC 8-7 in post match penalties. The team equally faired well in the sack race picking 18 points but could not match the opponents in both tug of war and egg race. MediaMax Network Limited won the overall title of the annual event—up from their third position last year and pocketed Sh100,000 cash prize. MediaMax amassed 104 points to secure the coveted silverware in the events that included 5-aside football, 4x100m relay, tug of war, egg and sack races. Mount Kenya were second with 100 points while Switch TV closed the podium after garnering 88 points. The event was co sponsored by Coca Cola and Safaricom. Sports CS won the egg race in the executive’s category which also included Betway country manager, Leon Kiptum, Safaricom sales representative Peris Nduta and Sports Kenya chief executive officer Pius Metto. In football, Capital FM retained the title by pipping Mount Kenya TV 2-1 on post-match penalties after a 1-1 stalemate during regulation time. In tug of war, Metropol edged out Nation Media Group (NMG) 2-1 to take the title. Nation won the 4X100m, Capital FM emerged victorious in the egg race while the sack race belonged to Ebru TV. Sports CS Amina Mohammed lauded the initiative and said her ministry was committed to working with the media in improving service delivery and sporting standards. “It is commendable that media houses consistently allocate adequate airtime and at least five pages in newspapers to Sports. As a key stakeholder, the media plays a pivotal role in Sports through dissemination of all information in the sector. The Ministry’s staff will join the Journalists in next year’s events in the spirit of collaboration and partnership,” the CS said. The Betway country manager Leon Kiptum said they were impressed with the event and hoping for more collaborations with SJAK. “We are very happy to be part of SJAK, the journalists are doing a commendable job, next year we hope to continue with the partnership,” Kiptum stated. 