The problem with our Deputy President William Ruto, I think, is overrating himself, he thinks he is very important. How, for God's sake, would he have been set up against the Building Bridges Initiative? First, he should know, he is leading no political party. He is the deputy of a party leader just like our deputy party leaders Hassan Joho (Mombasa Governor) and Wycliffe Oparanya (Kakamega Governor). He should deputise his party leader. Where party leaders are consulting, he doesn’t expect to be invited. He should prepare to be in meetings where we attend as officials of political parties, but meetings where the two leaders (Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga) are meeting or leaders of political parties are meeting, he has no mandate, to be present. If he meant how Building Bridges Initiative was created, with his remarks in Sugoi, especially the March 9 handshake, then he is wrong because why would he have been involved and only the two party leaders were meeting. They were the two protagonists, each one of them had his supporters and close associates and both decided not to have those associates in the initial stages. He dismissed the report even before it came out, he started talking about contents that we were not sure would even come out, how he got the content I don’t know. When the content came out completely different from what he was saying, it becomes clear he was fighting the unknown. I think Ruto’s weakness in politics is that he is always in fighting mode and I think that is not very good for someone who wants a position that he wants. If you want to lead a country, you need to be sober, exercise caution, and speak only when you are sure. Ruto is fighting shadows, even in the second phase of BBI, he will still bring issues but the team will talk with Kenyans across the country regardless. The same issues they had before are the same issue they will have when the document goes to the second phase. Kenya is bigger than an individual, what we want is what is good for Kenya and that is what I expect this team to come up with in terms of a Bill. The Suba South MP spoke to the Star