 The sick in  Kisumu county continue to suffer three weeks after doctors began a strike that has crippled health services over non-implementation of a CBA. The doctors are adamant that they will not resume duties until the Prof Anyang' Nyong'o-led government honours the Collective Bargaining Agreement first signed in 2017 and again on June 24, this year. The over 250 medics, through the Nyanza branch chairman of the Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentist Union (KMPDU),  Kevin Osuri, maintain that they will neither relent nor be intimidated. This year, doctors have stayed out of their work stations for several weeks. In June, the doctors went on strike over study leave, NHIF cover, non-remittances of statutory deductions and job stagnation. The current strike started on December 6 after the expiry of a 21-day notice they had issued on November 21. At the weekend they advised the sick to either seek treatment in costly private health facilities or in neighbouring counties where "doctors' issues are taken more seriously." Osuri stated: “It's not a favour the government is doing to us. It's our right and we deserve to be given the rights that we negotiated for with the county government, first in 2017 and on June 24, 2019.” He asked the people of Kisumu to understand that it's their government that is sleeping on the job and that the doctors are ready to resume work immediately the county government honours the CBA “Health is your right. Come out and force the county government of Kisumu to honour the CBA with the doctors so that you can get the services," he said. County Health executive Judith Miguda said the doctors' promotion letters are ready. According to Miguda, the County Public Service Board has prepared and drawn up of the doctors' promotion letters. “This is to notify the doctors due for promotion to immediately collect their letters from the office of the chief officer of health and sanitation beginning Friday, 20th December,” she stated and further asked them to bring with them their practising licences. "The government expects the doctors to be back at their stations of work immediately thereafter,” the Health executive said. The KMPDU dismissed the letters as "love letters" and mere pieces of paper. “What they have instead written are imaginations, innuendos and suggestions. We will only pick them and go back to work when they are proper promotion letters,” Osuri added. Residents are at a loss as to why it has taken so long for the dispute to be resolved. Relatives have been removing the sick from both the Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Teaching and Referral Hospital and the county hospital. “There is no need of me having my mother at this facility. There is no doctor to treat her. There are some things the nurses cannot handle without the direction of the doctors,” Mark Owiti said. Mary Akoth said her husband is supposed to undergo surgery. He will be forced to go to the neighbouring counties due to the uncertainty of when the Kisumu doctors will resume duty. “We are wondering what is happening to our county as far as health matters are concerned. Hardly two months ago, there was a total shutdown of public hospitals because of health workers' strike. Then this,” Akoth complained.   