IS PRESIDENT UHURU Kenyatta angry at a senior political leader on the radar of the anti-graft agencies? The politician has been following the President to public events for what many see as a much-sought handshake. His efforts have been to no avail. At a recent public event, presidential security guards openly shoved the politician off as he frantically tried to catch the President's eye. Despite the humiliation, the politician has been positioning himself at vantage positions to access the Head of State. But the golden opportunity remains a mirage. Why the politician has failed to realise that he is an unwanted person in the President's presence is a matter that is boggling observers. IS A CERTAIN Member of the County Assembly behind the chaos that preceded a fundraiser attended by Deputy President William Ruto in Nyeri on Sunday? There are reports that the MCA mobilised goons to burnt T-shirts bearing the names of the President in an elaborate plan to discredit some leaders from the region. Corridors understands that security agencies are analysing the MCA's movements and communication prior to the Sunday event with the aim of tightening the noose around his neck. The MCA is said to have met some youths at a local joint the previous night where the planning of the protest was hatched. All eyes are now on the security agencies' next steps amid outcry against hooliganism. A CATHOLIC PRIEST in Kakamega county shocked the faithful when he declined to allow politicians to "greet" the congregation from the pulpit as is the norm on such occasions. The priest only recognised the politicians' presence and thanked each one of them personally for choosing to worship at his church. Then he went ahead to deliver a shocker for the politicians who had thought they would speak. The priest said he was sure that the politicians would delve into politics and talk about constitutional amendments yet his congregation has not had a chance to see the BBI report. He said Kenyans should be allowed to read the BBI report before politicians poison their minds with what they think is best for the country. LAST FRIDAY'S ARREST of Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko seems to have sent shivers down the spines of a governor from Nyanza. The county boss, who, according to those in the know has been frequenting the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission’s regional office literally trembled when news reached him that Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji had ordered Sonko’s arrest. The governor's aide disclosed to our source that the boss told them he could be next in line. The governor plans to convene a cabinet meeting this week to delegate duties to a trusted County Executive Committee member. If you have any tips send them to Tips@radioafricagroup.co.ke