The Assets Recovery Agency is seeking the property of a junior officer at the National Youth Service valued at over Sh153 million forfeited to the state. ARA also wants bank deposits amounting to Sh197, 391,968 forfeited. Evans Wafula Kundu who was in charge of the mechanical and transport department acquired the property and cash through proceeds of crime and looting of public funds from NYS, ARA says. The move by ARA comes after the agency through lawyer Jennifer Gitiri obtained orders stopping Kundu, his wife Sylvia Ajiambo Onguru, daughter Millicent Matingi Kundu and their company Mojisola Limited from selling, interfering with or transferring any of his property listed in court. “A preservation order is hereby granted against the respondents, their employees, agents or any other person acting on their behalf from dealing in any manner with the listed property and parcels of land pending determination of the suit,” Justice Mumbi Ngugi ruled. Among the frozen assets is property in upmarket Runda valued at Sh90 million, a piece of land in Kasarani worth Sh16 million and a plot in Nakuru East valued at Sh25 million. Others include a four-storey residential building in Njoro, 40-acres of land in Trans Nzoia, two plots in Kitale bought at Sh16 million, another land in Nairobi valued at Sh6 million and his palatial home in Trans Nzoia. The judge also instructed the chief lands registrar to put a caveat on all land parcels owned by Kundu and the director general of National Transport and Safety Authority to register a caveat on several of Kundu's vehicles. Kundu is one of the 37 suspects charged in May 2018 with conspiracy to defraud NYS of millions of shillings. He is accused alongside former NYS director general Richard Ndubai, his deputy Nicholas Ahere and former Youth and Gender Affairs Principal Secretary Lillian Omollo. Others charged were traders said to have received millions of shillings without making any supplies including the Ngirita family from Naivasha, Catherine Mwai, Phylis Njeri, Lucy Wambui, Jeremiah Gichiri and Anne Wambere. An affidavit filed in court by ARA investigator Fredrick Musyoki said the junior officer engaged in money laundering schemes using NYS suppliers, who are also charged in the case, to purchase assets on his behalf to hide the sources of the illicit funds. “Our investigations established that the said illicit funds for the purchase of his assets were from NYS suppliers who were paid by NYS for goods and services not supplied,” Musyoki said. The court heard that Kundu used the names of his wife and daughter to purchase property so as to further conceal his stealing scheme. Kundu is also alleged to have conspired with his two brothers to register companies that NYS awarded contracts worth Sh17 million without any supplies being made. The prosecutor added that Kundu used his wife to purchase the Trans Nzoia land while his daughter Millicent was the conduit of purchasing the Runda property. Lawyer Gitiri told the court that at the time of the scandal, Kundu had the authority to incur expenditure as the head of mechanical and transport department. “It was established that he performed several roles in the fraudulent NYS transactions where he signed most of the fraudulent local purchase orders and issued payment vouchers for goods not used or required by his department,” she said.