A number of top politicians from Mt Kenya seem to look for any opportunity to visit State House and then later brag about how close they are to President Uhuru Kenyatta. An aide to one of the politicians fond of visiting the Head-of-State told Corridors that his boss, after spending an afternoon at State House will brag to everybody he comes across about how untouchable he is, close to real power and among the people who run the country. He says the President should perhaps think seriously about vetting politicians who visit him to get rid of busy bodies around him. *** As it is with every festive season, MPs organize football tournaments in their respective villages in the name of nurturing talent. A youthful MP organised such a tournament last week and even invited a top official from his party to award trophies to the teams. On the last day of the tournament however, the MP was missing, and so was the chief guest. Corridors of Power even so learnt that the MP skipped the last day of the competitions after finding out that his guest would not be attending, begging the question; was the tournament organised just to impress the party official? *** In many offices,  communication is made on when the employees would break for the holidays and when they are expected back at work. A county assembly in Nyanza did not make any such communication this year. With up to a week before Christmas, staff were not present at their work stations and those who reported to duty would just be at their respective desks for half day. A staff whispered to Corridors that they do not even know when to report back after the New Year celebrations, and that they might just add themselves a few more days before resuming work. *** A governor from Eastern has been branded as the new ‘mtu wa kupita kati kati’ following his penchant of using divisions in his community for political gains. The county chief, despite being hailed as a darling of the people, seems to have rattled his backers who now want him called out for his hypocrisy. Those keenly following his activities say the man has never taken a solid stand in politics of the region. They say it was time those pushing for him to occupy bigger seats realize the man’s cowardice.