The Kenya Premier League side AFC Leopards have been forced to host Mathare FC in Mumias on Sunday as one way of appealing to the fans and local leadership to raise funds for the cash-strapped team. Leopards' chairman Dr. Dan Shikanda has appealed to the fans to come to the support of the team at this time when the club is experiencing one of the worst moments in its history. “At this particular moment when things are getting from bad to worse, we only hope fans will stand with the team as we keep negotiating with other partners to come on board and support the team. “However we are optimistic that things will change for the better in the few coming days. "We had established a formidable and strong playing unit that was ready to  contest for the title but we are afraid we might end up losing some," he said. He added: “I salute my players and the technical bench who have put the club’s interests before self and posted some of the best results.  I just urge them to keep that fighting spirit as we hope to see things improve." He appealed to all western region leadership and our loyal fans to turn out in large numbers for the Sunday's match at Mumias Sports complex to support the team and make the players happy during Christmas holidays. Former local soccer giants are currently experiencing the worst financial moments since the withdrawal of SportPesa as the main sponsors. "AFC Leopards are one of the oldest and successful community clubs in the country and it's unfortunate that they are are experiencing their toughest season with key players threatening to leave," he said. Meanwhile Leopards coach Andre Mbungo admitted that his job at the den was increasingly getting tough , thanks to dry coffers at the club. He said  the team had not trained in the last two weeks in protest for lack of money but he was hopeful of thrashing Mathare. “We drew KCB and held Tusker without training. The two matches were tough but the boys gave their all. The Mathare clash is beckoning but I believe we will escape unscathed,” he added. Elsewhere, Mathare United coach Salim Ali is optimistic that the experience his four players gained from the Cecafa Senior Challenge will play a role in edging AFC Leopards. The Slum Boys will welcome Andrew Juma,Kevin Kimani,David Owino and Roy Okal back to the squad from Uganda. The four were all used during the regional showpiece which came to an end for Stars after being tossed out by Eritrea in the semi finals played on Tuesday. Ali said the quartet were exposed to top drawer football and their experience will go a long way in caging Leopards who are win-less in the last three matches. “They were exposed to quality football which is way above our league and I think we will rely on them for a win. I am glad they are fit and will be available for selection. We face a tough opponent and the lessons they learnt in Uganda I believe will play a vital role in our bid to bag the three points,” he said. Mathare alongside Gor were excused from honouring their league matches by virtue of having more than three players in the Cecafa tournament. The two will, however, not break for the Christmas holiday as they are lined up  play their matches in hand. Gor have four while Mathare have three. “There is no Christmas for us as we are training for our matches. The boys are in good shape and are looking forward to catch up with the rest on the log,” he said.     