The awards keep coming for marathon legend Eliud Kipchoge. Probably more to come. And why not? The Kenyan enjoyed one of the most unforgettable years in the history of road running when he stopped the clock at 1:59.40 to become the first human being to run the full marathon in under two hours. This was in the INEOS Challenge in the streets of Vienna, Austria, but it could as well have been in his ‘Home of Champions’ town of Eldoret given the rousing support he received. Kipchoge’s ‘No Human is Limited’ feat was equated with the historic human accomplishments of Neil Armstrong proportions of becoming the first man to land on the moon. “Today, we went to the moon and came back to earth! I am at a loss for words for all the support I have received from all over the world,” Kipchoge tweeted moments after the heady achievement. That chilly Saturday morning of October 12 was like a public holiday in Kenya. Many who had not previously cared a jot about athletics were glued to their screens hoping to witness history. They were not disappointed. Hordes of humanity sat before giant TV screens in public viewing arenas at the KICC, Nairobi and in Eldoret town, evidence that sports can galvanise a people. Since then, everyone has been falling over themselves to have a piece of the 35-year-old. But to the disappointment many, Kipchoge ruled out a huge celebration that traditionally includes the slaughtering of bulls. Kipchoge ruled out slaughter, saying, "It will not happen in my life. My biggest celebration is at the finishing line.” The BBC was the latest to honour the world marathon record holder when they recognised him as the World Sports Star of the Year on December 16. Just a week after his astonishing triumph in Austria, Kipchoge was given the highest honour possible for a civilian when he was draped with the Elder of the Golden Heart sash by President Uhuru Kenyatta during the Kenyatta Day celebrations. “My heartfelt gratitude to President of the Republic of Kenya for the highest award ever,” Kipchoge tweeted after the honour was bestowed. More accolades followed for the man from Kapsisiwa in Nandi county. He was named the 12th World Marathon Majors male champion in New York in November and in the same month, he was crowned the World Athletics Male Athlete of the Year in Monaco. His awards were not limited to sports. Academiafollowed suit in recognising his awe-inspiring achievements. The reigning Marathon Olympic champion was awarded an Honorary Degree of Science from Laikipia University. There's more. He also received a Doctorate of Laws Degree from the University of Exeter in the UK. Kipchoge remains fully focused on continuing his career. With no appearance in competitive running since the INEOS Challenge, Kipchoge has been keeping himself fit in the gym. Only last week, he resumed his distance running training. “Back to our running ways," he said. "Yesterday marked the first long run of the year and it was wonderful to be back running with the team,” he posted on one of his social media platforms on December 13. Afterwards, he revealed that he will be returning to the London Marathon where he will be seeking a fifth victory overall. With the Tokyo 2020 Olympics also due, Kipchoge, it is hoped, will go on and defend the Olympic crown he won in Rio de Janeiro in 2016. Despite being a world superstar who has brushed shoulders with business titans, sporting legends and earned praise from leaders like former US President Barrack Obama, Kipchoge remains a down-to-earth person. He says his best times remain those spent with family and childhood friends as well as training with local athletes. His wife was there to embrace him at the finishing line of the INEOS Challenge, the first time she has ever watched him live running in overseas competitions. More responsibilities have been thrust his way since the feat in Austria. Kipchoge is involved with several initiatives to give back to society. He is an ambassador to the ‘Daily Mile’ initiative that seeks to inspire others to run. He went public with his greatest desire to meet Obama. When and if they do finally meet, the world will wonder which of them should be proudest of being in the presence of the other.  To the ordinary folks, however, Kipchoge was truly the man of the year 2019.