Tunza Sports coaching director Denis Owoka has challenged the eight pioneer hockey girls of the Tunza sports initiative to prove their prowess academically and sport-wise. The eight have been earmarked to join Nyamira Girls High School next month as part of the organisation's 2020 plans. The talented girls were also being courted by Kerugoya and Sinyolo Girls but Nyamira succeeded in convincing the players to join them. Tunza Sports is a not-for-profit sports academy that harnesses the power of sports to reduce poverty, promote health and inspire academic success for kids in poor rural areas. The initiative empowers girls with life-changing skills that will enable them to become women of integrity,  substance and functional community leaders. Tunza Sports has been in operation for two years and going forward the stakeholders hope to incorporate the boys too in the program. Former Butali Warriors coach Denis Owoka whose task is to nurture talent said academic progress will be monitored all through to match up with the talent. He challenged the girls to maximise on the opportunity academically for future consideration into institutions of higher learning. He said: "In 2020, the main plan is to introduce boys in lower primary (class 4 and 5) and to also spread to other counties outside Kisumu and Mombasa. The kids benefit by learning different skills in sports,mainly hockey and they also get to interact with other kids across the country when we travel for tournaments,we hope to take them out of the country soon." "Leadership skills and managerial qualities are also imparted to them by our team of coaches. We really put more emphasis on education and development; academic performances are properly monitored and documented. We are setting up partnerships with high schools and hopefully the kids can get scholarships in future," added Owoka. "The girls need to embrace the challenge and set high standards so that more opportunities will be at stake in 2021. We will closely follow their academic progress and who knows... Strathmore and United States International University USIU-A universities could offer them scholarships if they do well." Tunza Sports is an initiative of Raqel Otieno and through her networks, the project gets donations from the partners in the USA and locally Amit Rajput and Kamal Sambi have been very supportive. An indoor pitch was recently launched and it's already a hit with the local community in Seme Ratta. The elders and local leaders have promised to take good care of the facility and even accelerate its completion to world class standards.