KCB and Posta Rangers square off at Machakos' Kenyatta Stadium tomorrow as the two title dark horses look to further cement their places in the Kenyan Premier League championship race. The two sides have caught the eye with their scintillating performances particularly, the bankers who thrashed Kariobangi Sharks 5-2 last time out. The duo are separated by only a point with KCB fourth on 18 points and the mailmen eighth. Bankers assistant coach Godfrey Oduor will be in charge of the team in the next couple of weeks as head coach Zedekiah Otieno is away with Harambee Stars in Uganda for the Cecafa Senior Challenge cup. Rangers captain Joseph 'Capello' Mbugi has challenged his teammates to reassert their title credentials with a victory against a side that is brimming with confidence like the bankers. “It's going to be a tough match for both teams. For us, we need to get a result to show that we are capable of fighting for the league. It is this kind of match that we must measure up to,” said the Posta playmaker. Rangers, under the tutelage of former national team defender Sammy Omollo boast of the league's joint meanest defence, having conceded five goals in 11 matches. It's a trait that Mbugi reckons will hold them in good stead if they are to achieve their objectives. “For us, keeping it tight in defence is part of our game plan. That gives us confidence knowing n that if we score one goal then it will be hard for our opponents to come back but we also seek the right balance in both attack and defence,” he explained. Today, champions Gor Mahia will be away to face Kisumu All-Stars at the Moi Stadium. Though All-Stars are the home team, they will have to contend with the feeling of being the away side as the K'Ogalo faithful in the Millennium city are expected to make a huge percentage of fans inside the venue. Gor will be seeking to swiftly return to winning ways after last weekend's stalemate against Ulinzi Stars. The soldiers meanwhile will be at home to Zoo Kericho. AFC Leopards match against Mathare United was postponed at the Slum Boys' request as four of their players- David Owino, Kevin Kimani, Roy Okal and Andrew Juma are on national team duty. 