Residents of Gatanga in Murang’a county living downstream from Ndakaini dam are at risk following the filling up of the reservoir. Murang’a Governor Mwangi Wairia said the dam is filling up at a rate of three per cent a day and it is already 85 per cent full. "This means the dam may spill over in the next five days, posing a risk for those living along Thika and Chania River," Wairia said. The two rivers that join up at Thika town then flow to the Ithanga area in the lower part of Gatanga, which has flat topography. The dam has the capacity to hold 70 million cubic metres  of water and now has 59 million cubic metres. Wairia called for urgent mitigative measures to avert a disaster that may result from the spillage of the mega-dam, which upplies 82 per cent of the water consumed in Nairobi. “We need a mitigative programme that will identify potential flood risks areas and those living in the areas relocated to safer areas,” the governor said. He challenged the County Disaster Management team to seek reinforcement from the national government and have a thorough inspection of the dam. The governor who spoke during an inspection of dams in the subcounty noted that the situation is aggravated by the fact that Chania River is already swelling due to spillover from Sasumwa dam in Nyandarua county. He said the river may not be able to hold more spillover from Ndaka-ini dam and that it may cause severe damages. He further noted that a risk profile needs to be done on how dams and rivers feed each other and appropriate proactive measures taken. He said the county has 30 dams but the most active and major ones are six, which are sited in private farms. The team visited Gatoka dam, which was on the verge of breaking its barriers on Friday but the county engineers worked with the owners of the farm to create a spillway. Simbi and Enkasiti dams are also filling up and the farm managers were advised to create spillways to reduce the up-take. The governor was accompanied by the county police commander Josphat Kinyua and meteorological services director Paul Murage. Murage emphasized the need for those living in risk areas to relocate to safer grounds to avoid any loss of life. “Our soils are fully saturated as the county has been receiving over 200 percent more rainfall than is normal,” he said. Gitugi and Gatare areas are leading and are receiving more than 300 percent, he said, increasing the risk of landslides. Murage said such heavy rainfall was last experienced in 1961. The county has already experienced several non-fatal landslides that have killed livestock in various parts. Gataka-ini village in Gatanga has been cut off after a major landslide blocked the main road leading to the village. The road has also formed cracks.