League leaders Kabras will put their unbeaten run on the line when they face Homeboyz RFC at Impala Club. The sugar millers top the log with 34 points with the Deejays third on the standings  with 29 points. Kabras made light work of Western Bulls last weekend, thrashing them 47-0 last  in the “Ingo derby” in a bonus-point win while Homeboyz brushed away Kisumu RFC 53-3. It will be a battle of the two South African coaches with Jason Hector for Homeboyz and Hennley Du Plessis for Kabras. Hector expects a tough game against the league leaders. “ They are a quality side and  a  tough team to beat. However, we have improved tremendously, losing a single match to KCB this season.” Hector was, however mum over tactical tweaks for the match against Kabras but said his charges will go all out.  “We will make a few tactical changes for this game and if we execute well in both attack and defence, I think we will win,” added Hector. The hosts will rely on skipper Thomas Okidia, Meshack Akenga, Charles Omondi and Stanley Isogol in the forwards with Mohammed Omollo, Evin Asena, Bob Muhati and Mark Wandetto the pick of the backs. Du Plessis said he expects hard physical game against the Deejays. "It will be a difficult match but we have had a good week in training. Our approach and mindset will be key for this match." He has made one change for the game with the battle-hardened George Nyambua coming for William Diffu at flank  with Fijian Jone Kubu starting at fly-half. Key players for the visitors will include Asman Mugerwa, Ephraim Oduor and Hillary Odhiambo in the forwards with Brian Tanga, Timoci Sinaite and Ntabeni Dukisa the star men in the backs. Champions KCB host Impala in a mouth-watering clash at the Lion's den in Ruaraka. The bankers are second with the Sarries fourth. In other fixtures, Nakuru host double header with Oilers facing bottom of the log Kisumu RFC and Nakuru RFC entertaining  Blak Blad. Fifth-placed Mwamba make the long trip to Kakamega, where they take on Western Bulls as Quins host Nondies at the RFUEA ground. All matches will kick-off at 3pm.