Psychiatrists have declared on Wednesday that a woman is fit to stand trial on fraud charges relating to fake laptop procurement deals linked to State House and the office of the Deputy President. Mathari Mental Hospital found the woman understands the charges, the consequences and is capable of pleading to the criminal charges against her. When the case came up for mention before Kiambu senior principal magistrate Stellah Atambo, a state prosecutor produced a hospital medical report indicating Joy Wangari Kamau has been undergoing treatment for a mental condition. The accused person, alias Patricia Mereka, has been at the Mathari for psychiatric assessment since November 19. The court ordered her remanded to determine her soundness of mind. In a consolidated charge, Wangari is jointly charged alongside Fredrick Mangala, alias Douglas Simiyu, with conspiring to defraud Charles Ng’ang’a Gathii of Sh40 million and another Sh96 million in separate places. They allegedly claimed they were in a position to award him a tender to supply a military surveillance system. Wangari alone faces other counts of falsely presenting herself a State House employee in a position to award the tender to supply a military surveillance system, complete with equipment and logistics support. Mangala alone is charged on unknown dates January 2018 at Nyati House, Nairobi, with impersonating an officer of the National Security Intelligence Service. He allegedly said he was in a position to award tender number  STHSE/SUPLS/041-404/2017-2018/SH dated January 9, 2018, to supply laptops to State  House. Wangari and Mangala are also accused of conspiring to steal 120 HP laptops valued at Sh96 million from the same complainant by means of a fake tender dated January 9, 2018. They are also accused of forging tender documents purporting them to be genuine, signed by Major General Fatuma Ahmed Gaiti. Each accused person was ordered to be released on a bond of Sh5 million or a cash bail of a similar amount pending hearing of the case on March 3 next year.  (Edited by V. Graham)