Residents of Nyanza and Central will spend the least this Christmas compared to other regions due to tough economic times. A new TIFA research poll released yesterday said on average people in Nyanza and Central will spend Sh3,498 and Sh3,571 respectively on basic and luxury spending. North Eastern, which leads in expenditure this Christmas, will spend Sh 7,879, which is a total of the two economically hard-hit regions. Eastern (Sh5,491) will be the second highest spender according to the research conducted between December 17 and 22. Nairobi follows Eastern closely at Sh4,842. Others regions aren't much better: Rifty Valley (Sh4,392), Western (Sh4,151) and Coast (Sh4,189). “60 per cent of Kenyans feel that their household financial status is worse this year in comparison to the same period last year. 11 percent feel the economic situation is the same, nine per cent don't know while 21 per cent say the economic situation has improved,” TIFA said in the 16-page report. Data for the survey was collected through telephone interviews. On average, Kenyans will spend about Sh4,348 over Christmas on travel, accommodation, food, their parents and extended family. “When probed on the single most pressing problem, corruption has the highest mentions at 35 per cent. Respondents in Eastern have the highest mentions of their pre-Christmas household financial status being worse than 2018,” TIFA said. The report said 33 per cent of those in Rift Valley and 29 per cent in Nairobi feel their household financial situation is better. The report, titled A Kenyan Christmas Survey Report, said 11 per cent of Kenyans will not spend on Christmas festivities. Some 42 per cent of Kenyans indicated they would spend less this Christmas compared to last year. The report analyzed the expenditure on various items, which showed Kenyans will spend more on food and on parents/extended family members. “North Eastern is an outlier with highest expenditure plans on travel, accommodation and on parents/extended family,” TIFA said. The survey focused on the most pressing problems facing Kenyans in December, household financial status and cost of Christmas expenses.