Luhya politicians converge in Kakamega in January to declare the community’s political direction. Leaders from the political divide will also affirm their stand on the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) report, in what is going to be referred to as the “Bukhungu II Declaration.” Cotu boss Francis Atwoli said the January 18 meeting will not be a gathering to push for the realisation of Luhya unity, but its confirmation. “Already, we are more than 100 per cent united. This elusive Luhya unity talk is a creation of the media and it should stop,” he said. A similar meeting was held at Bukhungu Stadium on December 31 2016, where ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi was declared the community’s spokesman. The event, which was convened by Atwoli elicited mixed reactions from politicians, with some questioning the process through which the spokesman was picked. The trade unionist had hired the University of Nairobi’s economics and research department to help identify the strongest among big names that had declared interest in running for president in 2017 elections. Speaking at his rural residence in Khwisero in Kakamega county, Atwoli said next year’s event will be used to punish rebel Luhya leaders and send a message that the Mulembe community supports the BBI report and an all-inclusive government. “We will field a candidate in the coming elections and let nobody cheat you that we might backtrack on that,” he said. Present at the Christmas and New Year treat were ODM leader Raila Odinga and his wife Ida, secretary general Edwin Sifuna, Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya and Nominated MP Wilson Sossion among others. Raila reaffirmed that the recommendations of the BBI report will be implemented in 2020. “We want to start building Kenya afresh,” he said. Oparanya said the January 18 meeting will involve leaders from Bungoma, Busia, Vihiga and Kakamega counties. “There are few areas we feel as leaders should be looked into,” he said. Oparanya added that an expanded executive has not been given enough emphasis since leaders from the region want a powerful prime minister and two deputies Mudavadi, while gracing the Maragoli Festivals in Mbale, said the community in Western Kenya should reach out for the support of other regions ahead of 2022. “We must extend the hand of friendship and brotherhood to other regions,” he said. Vihiga Governor Wilbur Ottichilo said the region must remain united and at the right time ask for support from the rest of the country. Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa is right to forge a close working relationship with President Uhuru Kenyatta. “There is need for Mudavadi to forge alliances with kingpins from other regions ahead of 2022,” Ottichilo said. Lugari MP Ayub Savula asked Raila to support Mudavadi’s presidential ambition this time.