Chief Justice David Maraga made good his threat to skip state functions when he gave Thursday's Jamhuri Day celebrations a wide berth. The absence of Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko was also conspicuous during the high-profile function at Nyayo National Stadium. Sonko was arrested last week on corruption claims and was only released from police custody on hours to the national day. Ordinarily, Maraga’s seat – being the head of an arm of government – was to be alongside those of the Speaker’s of the National Assembly and Senate but this was not to be. Majority leaders Aden Duale (National Assembly) and Kipchumba Murkomen (Senate) took the seats immediately after the two speakers during the event presided over by President Uhuru Kenyatta. Maraga had complained of state operatives treating his office with disrespect and at times failing to even recognise him at such functions. He cited the Mashujaa Day celebrations which were held in Mombasa where he said he walked to the dais without being recognised. This year’s Jamhuri day is the first state function Maraga has skipped since making the threat. He also skipped the launch of BBI initiative at Bomas of Kenya last month. A source who didn't want to be named, however, said the CJ had other commitments and did not skip the ceremony deliberately. Former Prime Minister Raila Odinga led opposition principals former Vice President Kalonzo Musyoka and ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi to the event. Raila, currently enjoying an amicable relationship with Kenyatta did not, however, get a chance to speak as was widely expected. Barbados Prime Minister Mia Mottley, Deputy President William Ruto and Kenyatta were the only speakers. The 2019 Jamhuri Day celebrations were a stark contrast to previous national events especially on the manner men and women in uniform paraded before their Commander-In-Chief. In what appears to be a complete departure where all security formations march before the President, on Thursday only the Kenya Defense Forces were allowed to parade. Kenya Air Force led the trooping ceremonies this year taking over from Kenya Army (Kenya rifles) which conducted it in 2018. In 2017 it was the Kenya Navy which led the trooping of colour ceremony. There was however confusion after one of the airborne military choppers displaying Kenya’s military might flew a shouting ‘Kenya at @55’ burner instead of 56. All of Kenya Police Service, Kenya Prisons and National Youth Service did not take part as has been the norm. After the military parades, school children made a presentation followed by a performance by a dance group before Ruto took over to address the nation. the deputy president then invited the Barbados PM and the President crowned the day with his 54-minute speech. Kenyans started trooping into the refurbished stadium as early as 7 am braving the morning cold to be part of the annual celebrations which reminds Kenyans of the sacrifice the founding fathers endured to have the country’s flag replace the colonial one. All the stands were filled to capacity with Kenyans from all walks of life. However, empty seats reserved for dignitaries were visible on each side of the Presidential dais. Security was beefed up outside and within the facility with every Kenyan walking into the 30,000 capacity stadium screened by security officers. Armed Police officers were strategically stationed on all the eight main gates that were being be used to access the stadium.  All the 16 walk-through ways were also fitted with scanners manned by hawk-eyed security personnel. 