A  boda boda Sacco in Murang’a county has made Sh1. 1 million profits this year. Kabati Flyover Operators Sacco, which was formed four years ago, has 87 members who save at least Sh500 every week. Vice chairman George Mungai Njoroge said the Sacco has profited from loans to members and other income-generating activities. “This year alone, we have issued loans amounting to Sh5.6 million to our members who repay with a little interest,” Mungai said on Saturday. The Sacco has also invested in four boda bodas and tuk-tuks. It has also bought two acres valued at Sh1.2 million. Mungai, who was speaking during an annual general meeting of the Sacco, said dividends were based on members’ contributions. “Minimum savers have received at least Sh3,500 while maximum savers have received up to Sh8,000,” he said. The Sacco has also established a welfare programme for its members and families of members who fall sick or die, he said. Each member contributes Sh200 per month to the programme that covers their immediate families. The vice chairman said operating boda bodas should be like any other job and urged operators to understand that they can prosper if they manage their earnings properly. Mungai said Sacco members have been able to support their families and many have started businesses for their wives to increase family earnings. Others have put up their own homes and bade tenancy farewell, Mungai said. Member Emmanuel Wanyoikesaid he joined the sector four years ago and immediately registered into the Sacco. Wanyoike has since bought a tuk-tuk through a loan from the Sacco, he said. “Being in a Sacco has numerous benefits especially since you can freely access loans and better your life," he said. Kabati Business Community chairman Kamau Kang’ethe praised the youths for forming the Sacco to empower themselves. He said the unity of the operators has also discouraged criminals from operating in the area. "The operators have a good relationship with the police which has improved security in our town,” he said. Edited by R.Wamochie