Barbados Prime Minister Mia Amor Mottley will on Thursday be the special guest during this year's 56th Jamhuri Day fete at the Nyayo National Stadium. Mottley will deliver her message as the designated special guest as President Uhuru Kenyatta leads the occasion set to be attended by over 30,000 people. The event will feature military parades by the three divisions of the Kenya Defence Forces – the Army, Navy and Air Force. High ranking government officials including Deputy President William Ruto will accompany President Kenyatta to the national event at Nyayo and thereafter a State reception at State House. The event will also be graced by special envoys and foreign diplomats stationed in Nairobi. Surinamese Foreign Minister Pollack Beighle will represent the South American nation. Jamhuri Day is observed on December 12 every year to commemorate as the day Kenya obtained Independence from Britain. It is marked by festivities to celebrate the country’s rich cultural heritage, socioeconomic and political milestones. The event will be the first to held at the refurbished facility. The stadium has been renovated and upgraded to meet modern sports and conference demands. On Tuesday, Interior PS Karanja Kibicho toured the facility ahead of the event. “The stage is set, and we expect 30,000 people to attend this year’s Jamhuri Day celebrations,” he said. Kenya and Barbados on August 9 resolved to expand areas of cooperation and create more economic opportunities for citizens of the two nations. President Uhuru Kenyatta and Prime Minister Mia Amor Mottley of Barbados agreed that increased economic engagement will form the foundation for rekindling the historical bilateral ties between the two countries. The two leaders spoke when they led their delegations in bilateral talks in Bridgetown, Barbados where they witnessed the signing of two key agreements. During the meeting, Kenya and Barbados resolved to work together and enhance their cooperation in renewable energy, tourism, health, education, blue economy, Information and Communication Technology (ICT), sports, culture, trade and investment.