Over 50 companies were yesterday awarded at the 3rd Digital Tech Excellence(DIA) Awards event held at Intercontinental Hotel Nairobi. An upcoming company Oro Kenya, a digital real estate marketing Company was awarded an award for runners up in “Online Real Estate Marketing Platform” category. Avshil Malde, Oro Kenya founder said that the entire team of ORO Kenya is ecstatic about winning the award. “It has been great year for us with two awards in our portfolio, we humbly thank DIA awards for recognizing us amongst the industry giants. It's a real privilege and honor receiving this award", he said. The team that was very excited with the award said they are trying to get as many Kenyans onboard their online platform. “We want to give them a pocket-friendly hustle free advertising experience by recognition that we have received this year, more people are getting to know about ORO and also realise its benefits,” said Nidhi Avshil a co-founder of Oro Kenya. She added that for a mere Sh100 one can advertise his or her vehicle /property and it is literally a fraction of the general market. “We created this platform solely so that Kenyans can spot being exploited from extravagant marketing rates and enjoy the technological benefits for marketing,” she added. Nidhi said they would like to share that they are currently revamping their platform to make it more user friendly and faster. “Next year and the years to follow we shall continue endeavouring to make ORO the ideal real estate & marketing for Kenyans, “she has told the press at Intercontinental Hotel. Lanstar Technologies Sacco Company was awarded as the winner at the software systems provider category. Tuko Company was awarded as the best online news platform while Masoko Kenya was awarded the best online shopping platform. The best mobile fundraising platform award went to Tala. Other companies awarded were Getboda, Sindikenya,Skygarden, and Masoko Africa. Byrentkenya.com was awarded as the best online job marketing platform. Pigiame was awarded as the best classified online platform category.