Nyaribari Masaba MP Ezekiel Machogu has backed calls to criminalise doping in Kenya. The MP said athletes who use performance-enhancing drugs and those who help them administer banned substances should be heavily sanctioned. “Those involved in doping should be jailed or be heavily fined, not just a ban of two to four years. The war against the doping should be intensified,” he said at Getacho Primary school during the Nyaribari Masaba Cross Country championship. The former provincial administrator added: “I'm told a Bill proposing severe punishment will be tabled in parliament and I will fully support it and will rally my colleagues to have it passed.” Machogu was responding to a request by Athletics Kenya (AK) Nyanza South chairman Peter Angwenyi who asked stakeholders to support severe punishment for dopers in the wake of a ban imposed by the World Anti Doping Agency  on Russia from participating in major sporting events. “Most Kenyan athletes run clean but few elements are damaging our reputation as an athletics powerhouse. We don't want our country to go the Russia way,” said Machogu. Angwenyi regretted that Kenya has been ranked among the leading countries in doping and called for concerted efforts in dealing with the menace. “The proposals to jail dopers and barring them from representing the country are most welcome. We must deal with this menace once and for all,” added Angwenyi. Among the most abused substance by Kenya’s athletes are; Blood booster Erythropoietin (EPO),  which stimulates the production of more red blood cells improving oxygen levels in the body, Norandrosterone with Prednisone, Salbutamol and Steroids. Kenya is ranked by WADA in Category A list of countries on the watch for anti-doping violations. The MP, who sponsored the cross country event through the National Government Constituency Development Fund, vowed to continue supporting the event. “We want to expose and nurture talent. Kisii used to produce world-class athletes in the 60's, 70's and 80's.  We want to restore our lost glory,” added the MP who participated in 2km exhibition race.