Court clerk shouts at a female suspect, orders her to get him at the gate disrupting court sessions A court clerk at  a Nairobi court disrupted proceedings when he shouted to a suspect in his soprano voice. While we could not confirm exactly why the clerk shouted at the woman suspect, a small bird whispered to us that he had been given a Sh200 "Christmas" by the suspect contrary to their agreement. "Wewe mama, unadhani hii koti ni yako? Rudi kwa gate mara moja tumalizane (You woman, you think this court belongs to you? Go back to the gate so that we finish our business)"he shouted. The police officers who were in court premises quickly went where the clerk was and told him to calm down. The clerk later went and bought a banana and ate. **** A senior prosecutor from the office of the Directorate of Public Prosecutions forced a suspect to smile until the magistrate was forced to intervene. The prosecutor had successfully cornered the suspect. "You have again told the court that by the time Joseph was robbed, you were in your house taking supper. Now you are telling this honourable court that you had gone to a petrol station to purchase paraffin. Kindly, which is which?" the prosecutor posed. In his response, the suspect smiled, even after the magistrate intervened, the suspect continue smiling. The prosecutor later learnt that he mucus on his left nostril and wiped it out. **** A man charged with defilement left a court in stitches after he opposed the magistrate's January date for the hearing of his case. The man courageously told the court that his family had struggled to secure his Sh300,000 cash bail for them to enjoy the festive season together. "Your honour I am not delaying the case but I was in Industrial Area Remand [Prison] during the last festive season but my aunt has secured my cash bail. The January date you have granted me is not fine. Push it to February for me to enjoy with my family and friends," he said. He got an extra month as the magistrate ordered that his case to be heard on March 18.