Two sisters who killed their father for squandering Sh5,000 raised for their brother’s burial have been released. On December 2, Easter Kagendo, 28, and Emily Wanjira, 24, were charged alongside their mother with the death of their father, Zakary Mutindi, on September 7 in Kathita village, Embu West. The mother was charged with murder and denied wrongdoing, but her daughters were charged with manslaughter and pleaded guilty. On Tuesday, Kagendo and Wanjira were put on a two-year probation by Embu Judge Florence Muchemi. Probation officers tabled a positive report on their history and behaviour. Muchemi said the report made it clear that they were law-abiding citizens and had not engaged in crime to warrant a custodial sentence. The mother was granted Sh250000 bond and a surety of a similar amount but was held after she failed to secure her release.  Her case will be heard next year. Her son, identified only as Murimi, had died prior to the incident and the family raised Sh5,000 for his funeral. The husband took away the cash and went on a three-day drinking spree. He returned home drunk, attracting the wrath of his wife and daughters. The wife demanded the money but he assaulted her instead. She informed her daughters of the incident on the phone. The daughters were in Gathoge, Kirinyaga county. The court heard that they arrived after some hours and joined their mother in demanding the money, then beat him up until neighbours intervened. The neighbours reported to the area chief, who alerted the police. They found the man had died when they arrived at his house. The three were arrested. Their lawyer, Kirimi Guantai, said the sisters were remorseful for killing their father and regretted a great deal as they did not intend to it. He said the murder was a culmination of a toxic and dangerous environment during which they had lost their brother, but, unfortunately, while they wanted to give him a decent burial through raising funds, the father disappeared with the cash, only to return emptyhanded. Guantai said his clients unintentionally killed their father out of uncontrolled anger after he attacked their mother. He argued that they were not in their right status of mind owing to their grief and the action of their alcoholic and abusive father. Guantai urged the judge to forgive them as they have young children who were depending on them and would suffer if they are jailed. Muchemi concurred with him, saying it was enough to place them on probation for two years. (Edited by F'Orieny)