The reluctance by Premier League and Super League clubs to release players may force Kenya Police to turn to National League for recruitment. The transfer window opened yesterday and the law enforcers have prioritised signing a striker and a midfielder for the 2020 season in order to fight for honours. Police have been rebuffed in their attempt to sign Super League top scorer Arnold Marango ,who plays for Kenya College of Accountancy (KCA) University. The skilled forward was the top scorer last season with  19 goals. Tactician Patrick Mugambi acknowledged the tall order awaiting his side, saying  the lowest tier could be the most favourable option to tap the talent. He said the unwillingness of the teams to release players is because teams have invested heavily in the playing unit. The disciplined force is in dire need of reinforcements after a frustrating season plagued by injuries and inconsistencies that left them third on the log. Mugambi wants a decisive forward to shoulder the goal-scoring burden alongside Govan Mbeki and Titus Kimutai. The team scored 40 goals in 18 matches last season. At the centre of the field, the team is seeking to replace seasoned Willis Okeyo, who is considering retirement in the next one or two seasons. Police have been a formidable force with Okeyo but his absence last season was a blow to the squad. “It is a herculean task getting experienced players. Teams are hesitant to lose their prized assets. "We have been in discussion with Marango but he won't be joining us because the institution has offered him a scholarship. "If the situation does not change, we will be forced to use the players we have and cast our wider net wider to the national league. "The lower league players though will need to readjust to the high demands of the top tier,” Mugambi observed. He also hinted at mentoring Vincent Odindo to fill the void that will be left by Okeyo once he decides to end his illustrious playing career. “Replacing Okeyo will be one of the toughest tasks for sure because he is an all-round player with a wealth of experience locally and internationally. Odindo is equal to the task and will come good if remains consistent.”  