A video of bees swarming over a man's hand has scared some Rurii ward residents, especially since it was posted by Nyandarua Governor Francis Kimemia. He stirred up a hornets' net, it seems, by posting on the members WhatsApp group. The county boss says it was "accidentally" posted to the wrong group; he meant to send it to his son "who wants to start beekeeping". Ward residents claim it was an effort to intimidate members from 11 polling stations in the ward. “People read things differently. Some like me read that the governor means that by meeting to discuss lack of ward development, we are rattling bees, hence, we shall be stung,” Group administrator Maria Haron sad. The video was posted on Sunday during a meeting for Rurii Ward Ni Yetu members who had met at White Springs Hotel in Ol Kalou to celebrate the group's third anniversary. The group includes the ward's major online opinion shapers. They were development issues including roads, street lights, insecurity, education and agriculture. Kimemia "accidentally" posted the video of a man transferring a modern beehive from the wall of a wooden house. It drew mixed reactions from members, including MCA John Mburu and his nominated counterpart Esther Mwangi. Group administrator Maria Haron said the members did not understand why the video did not appear in other Nyandarua groups which most of them have joined. They said it only appeared during a meeting that  "had been politicised". The claims arose from the absence of CECs who had been invited to respond to questions at the meeting but cited 'previously unseen commitments'. Some group members, however, alleged the CECs were warned against attending because the meeting supposedly was intended to promote the interests of politicians seeking to remove  Kimemia in 2022. “We have heard rumours that they have been warned of dire consequences if they come,” Francis Mbuthia said. Haron said the video was not understood as it was not captioned. She said she interpreted the video as a threat to group members who allegedly are fighting the governor. However Kimemia said on Monday the video originated from the Nyandarua Bee Keepers and he was sending it to his son who wants to start bee farming. Speaking to the Star on phone, Kimemia said the video was posted to the group by mistake. “I have a weakness of posting photos and they end up at the wrong place. In fact, it was meant for my son. How it landed there, I don’t know," he said. The county chief, however, urged the group not to read ill motives. That the video originated from Nyandarua Bee Keepers, he said, indicates that beekeeping can make a good source of income. “Tell them that I will bring them some beehives. Are they afraid of bees? Maybe the Holy Spirit delivered the video to their wall because there have been bad politics and insecurity at Rurii," he said amid laughter. MCAs who attended the meeting defended Kimemia. Mburu said Kimemia could have meant the meeting was "as sweet as honey" and he could have wanted the group to consider beekeeping. Esther Mwangi called the video positive. “I believe the governor has no ill intentions, only he did not caption the video. Beekeeping does well around Ol Kalou and environs. I am a bee farmer and they are doing extremely well." Edited by R.Wamochie