The government is yet to release more than Sh5 billion to the Strategic Grain Reserves Fund for buying maize from the National Cereals and Produce Board. The board announced a month ago that it would buy 4 million bags to replenish the strategic reserves at the NCPB but the money is yet to be released. The SGR board has also delayed plans to set maize prices at the NCPB because of the prevailing favourable market in most areas. Strategic Food Reserve Board chairman Noah Wekesa said the maize market is still stable and the state would have offered the same price as the current market rate of about Sh2,900. “We will, however, intervene should the prices drop to levels that will threaten the situation,” Wekesa said. Farmers who met in Eldoret on Wednesday say they are ready to work with the board to ensure the market remains stable for their benefit and that of consumers. “We will appreciate the board’s intervention should the market situation change,” Kenya Farmers Association director Kipkorir Menjo said. Menjo said they had been informed that the SGR board was still waiting for the allocation of Sh5 billion to purchase maize from farmers in the next few weeks. “The board should be funded so that it can buy the maize from farmers and ensure the prices remain stable,” Menjo said. Maize production this year is expected to drop by at least 11 million bags mainly due drought during the planting season. Farmers harvested  43 million bags last year. Agriculture CAS Andrew Tuimur has said this year's production will be about 32 million bags, mostly from high producing areas of Trans Nzoia and Uasin Gishu. Tuimur said the government was already making plans to buy maize from farmers to replenish the SFR. The majority of the farmers in the North Rift and South Rift are currently harvesting and expect NCPB depots to be opened soon. Last year, the board bought maize from farmers at Sh2,300 per bag but most farmers refused to deliver their produce, demanding at least Sh3,200 per bag. The CAS assured the maize growers that the government was prepared to purchase their stock. “The government will buy more stock from farmers this season and we are waiting for the Strategic Food Reserve Board to make the necessary preparations,” he said. Tuimur said the drop in production was no cause for alarm as the country was well prepared. Led by Tom Korgoren from Uasin Gishu, the farmers asked the SFR board to always consider their input costs when setting prices. “The government has been setting the price without even knowing the cost of production,” Korgoren said. He said they do not expect the government to allow in any imports because there is enough stock.