Did some MCAs follow a top Jubilee MP to the recent meeting graced by Interior CS Fred Matiangi in Kirinyaga to help their governor who is facing an arrest over corruption allegations? Well, those in the know have intimidated that the ward reps trooped to Kirinyaga and begged the influential politician to engage President Uhuru Kenyatta stop the impending arrest of their governor. The EACC is said to have concluded investigations into corruption claims involving the county chief and has already forwarded the file to DPP Noordin Haji to sanction the arrest. A second term Jubilee governor and his Senator elected on an opposition ticket have shocked their handlers and resident with their newly found-friendship. The two leaders have not been seeing eye to eye since 2017 election with the senator criticising the governor for poor leadership. However, the leaders have suddenly become the best of friends. Last week, the senator defended the governor against claims of financial misappropriations when he appeared before a Senate oversight committee to respond to the audit queries. An aide of one of the leaders intimated to corridors the two have struck a deal to have the opposition senator succeed him in 2022 when his term comes to an end. An ODM  Senator has irked his colleagues with his habit of attending committee meetings with his aides and forcing parliamentary staff and witnesses to vacate seats for them. The vocal legislator tags along his personal assistant and bodyguard to the panels every time he attends the meetings. One of the aides is always on phone, taking photos and recording the senator whenever he speaks. Last week, three committee members were heard complaining about the man’s habit after he forced two parliamentary officers, including a legal advisor to vacate seats for his aides. They said their colleague’s habit was unbecoming and concluded to sit him down in the coming days. A Kisumu-based tycoon has launched a manhunt for a second-term MCA in Siaya for fleecing him millions of shillings. The flamboyant ODM MCA is said to have promised to link the renowned businessman with governors in the region for business deals. However, three months after the tycoon delivered the cash; the good MCA has varnished and is not reachable even on phone. The businessman, according to those in the know, have now paid the MCA’s colleagues and two MPs from the county to track down the ward legislator. The man has vowed to teach the MCA a lesson that he will live to recall.