Just like millions of other mom and dads in the world, several celebrities welcomed new babies this year. Whether first-timers into parenthood or those who have already been through the journey, this is a list of famous individuals who had kids in 2019. Size 8 and DJ Mo Gospel artist Linet  Munyali Muraya alias Size 8 and DJ husband Samuel Muraya famously, Dj Moh,  welcomed their baby number two this year. In a video posted on Size 8's Instagram account on November 20, the couple welcomed their bundle of joy amid fear of complications. The musician had been admitted at RFH Healthcare prior to her delivery. Size 8 confessed to her fans on social media that she was going through a hard time during her pregnancy. She broke down in tears during her surprise baby shower in October saying, "Those tears are a sign of a brand new thing that God is birthing in my life and your life be encouraged". The celebrity couple had a hard time last year when they lost baby number two. DJ Mo opened up about it, revealing that his wife was five weeks pregnant when the misfortune happened. The mateke hitmaker received a flurry of congratulatory messages on the safe delivery of the second child. Although the exact date of delivery is not confirmed, Size 8 posted a video of her daughter Ladasha Wambo meeting her young sibling. Tanasha Donna Aketch The radio presenter come singer and her lover, Bongo star Diamond Platinum were the most talked about parents this year. The couple welcomed their son Naseeb Jr on October 2 which is the exact date Diamond was born. Naseeb is Diamond’s fourth child but Tanasha’s firstborn. The Tanzanian superstar has two children with Ugandan socialite Zari Hassan and one with model Hamisa Mobetto. Diamond and Tanasha had announced that they would be getting married early this year but they postponed. Tanasha said they were taking their time to get to know each other. Sarah Hassan The sensational actress flouted her baby bump on social media for a long period of her pregnancy. Soon after her surprise baby shower, Hassan went MIA on all social media. In July this year, the actress broke the silence announcing that she had indeed given birth to a bouncing baby boy. She made the update three months after the delivery date. The former wedding show host and hubby, Martin Dale welcomed their baby two years after they got married. The wedding held in February 2017 was very lavish but intimate ceremony attended by invited family and friends. Kambua After seven years of a childless marriage, Gospel artist and show host Kambua Mathu welcomed her first child this year. A bouncing baby boy. Baby Nate. Kambua and her hubby Pastor Jackson Mathu could not be happier. The couple especially the lovely Songstress had gotten a lot of backlash for failing to conceive after so long in marriage. In the past Kambua has always been candid and emotional about the subject. Yet still very hopeful. She has constantly encouraged women waiting to be mothers through her social media. "..For any woman whose pain was triggered by my announcement, I have prayed that God will turn your darkness into a spark of hope. I hope that your faith is renewed knowing that His power knows no bounds," read part of her post. She broke the news of her pregnancy on Instagram with a picture of her baby bump and her fans were overjoyed. Diana Marua She is officially a mother of two. Wife to gospel artist Kevin Bahati welcomed second child on  August 14 this year. Her son Majesty Bahati follows baby girl  Heaven Bahati who will be turning  two next year. The reality show star took to Instagram to announce the new addition to her family. "They call me Mama Morgan, Mama Heaven and today, my King has been born. Wednesday 14.08.2019. At exactly 1.04pm. Majesty Bahati, " she posted. The couple are known for their 'unconventional' baby names. Bridget Achieng' The Kenyan socialite delivered lovely baby boy on February 6 through Cesarean  section. According to Achieng', her baby  Sekani Rich Opeyemii is of mixed nationality since his father is Nigerian. Achieng', a star in reality show Nairobi diaries  revealed in her you tube channel that she is well equipped to take care of her baby as a single mother. She stated that her baby daddy ghosted  her when she was three months pregnant with her baby Sekani. Milly wa Jesus The bubbly Milly and her husband Kabi wa Jesus  announced the birth of their daughter, Reign Taji wa Jesus via Instagram on October 11. The couple work together to earn a living as online content creators. Kabi and his wife are famous from their you tube videos. Nimo Gachuri On March 5, Nimo and her husband Mr Seed welcomed their first child, a boy named Gold Christen. The model took to Instagram where she expressed happiness of delivering the normal way and not Cesarean section. "Welcome to the world my Little star born, 3.5 kg the labour the screams were all worth it. I thank God for normal delivery and all those that took part in saying a prayer for us," read the post. The couple got married on August 10 this year in a colourful wedding. Georgina Muteti Rapper Khaligraph Jones and wife Georgina Muteti welcomed their first child together. On June 8, Muteti gave birth to a lovely baby girl and the rapper has since taken pride in being a father.