Several families have been displaced and property worth millions destroyed after floods marooned houses along Kangundo road. The government on Thursday evacuated tens of trapped families from their homes along Muselele, Kamulu, and Athi Rivers using a police helicopter. Kayole police boss Wilson Kosgei said that they requested for the chopper after six vehicles were swept away at Chokaa area on Wednesday evening. Several motorists spent the night in the cold. “The situation was so bad that we were forced to request for a chopper to conduct surveillance along the rivers which are in both Nairobi and Machakos counties for a rescue mission,” Kosgei said. Five of the families were rescued in Joska by locals after the police chopper failed to land in the area, reportedly due to an electricity line. The most affected areas include Ruai, Kamulu and Joska. Most residents had fled their homes after they became inhabitable between Wednesday night and Thursday morning. Some of the victims had their houses and other properties swept away. “I have been staying here for four years now. This place I have called home has been marooned in floodwaters,” Elizabeth Wariara said. The victims said they lost clothes, electronics, bedding, utensils, children school uniforms, food and other household property. Machakos county commissioner Esther Maina said that a woman and her three children who had been trapped on a two-storey building in Joska were rescued. Maina said that ten people had died following the floods since the rains started in early November. “Two died when their houses caved in at Kathekakai, one student died when a toilet collapsed on her in Kangundo area. The others are cases of people attempting to cross swollen rivers,” Maina said. The administrator said that families in areas prone to flooding and landslides were advised to relocate. “The public is advised not to attempt to cross flooded sections of the river both while walking or driving,” Maina said. Residents said that policies should be developed by the state to help citizens during such calamities. Meanwhile, four bodies were found in a pool at Chokaa area by the residents. Residents belive the bodies, yet to be identified, were of people swept by Thursday's floods in Chokaa area. Dominic Wanjala, an employee at a farm near the scene said the rains had left many homeless.