Lawyers are waiting for a decision from Chief Justice David Maraga and Court of Appeal president William Ouko after they petitioned against the recall of appellate court judges to Nairobi. Ouko, on December 20, recalled all Court of Appeal judges operating outside Nairobi over lack of enough judges. Retirement of several judges, the appointment of others to government offices, and the sudden death of Justice James Otieno Odek has reduced the number of Appellate judges from 27 to 15. Currently, there are only 12 judges in the Court of Appeal who sit full-time. Out of these, three are serving in Mombasa, and now two at Kisumu following the death of Justice Odek, who was buried on Friday at his Siaya home. The other station affected is Nyeri. Speaking to the Star on Sunday, LSK Mombasa branch chair Mathew Nyabena said they are waiting on the decision of Maraga and Ouko. Ouko said the recall takes effect on January 13. “We are waiting to see what will happen. The decision to recall the judges is a blow to the devolution of courts to the regions, which had helped speed up cases,” said Nyabena on phone. A decision is expected early in the New Year. Earlier, Nyabena had, through a statement, criticised the recall saying the decision was unilateral and did not involve court users. He said the Coast region continues to suffer marginalisation even in the justice system. “The continued marginalisation of the regions of this country, and in particular the Coast, is not acceptable at all,” Nyabena  saidin his statement on December 23. He said access to justice will be constrained should the decision be upheld. “It is unreasonable to expect practitioners in the Coast to travel to Nairobi to file urgent applications and be heard on the same." “Is the judiciary ready to foot the additional expenses incurred? This decision only makes a bad decision worse,” Nyabena said. CJ Maraga had earlier expressed fears that operations at the Judiciary would be negatively affected after Treasury proposed a cut in funding. Some 41 judges are awaiting appointment by President Uhuru Kenyatta, who reportedly has reservations over integrity issues on some of the nominees. The Judicial Service Commission has termed the delay by the President to formally appoint the 41 Judges as a threat to its constitutional role to safeguard and promote the independence of the Judiciary. Nyabena on Sunday said this will create another crisis, especially in Mombasa. “It will be recalled that cases in Mombasa had not been handled because the court was constrained financially to meet its circuit to Mombasa. “There are several pending cases some of which were adjourned last week following the death of Hon Justice Odek that require urgent attention,” he said. He urged Ouko and Maraga to reverse the decision. He said turf wars between the Executive and the Judiciary are to blame for the current predicament. “The same ought to stop in the interests of our beloved Nation. The delay in appointment of Judges is to say the least a massacre of our constitution.  That the right of Kenyans to access justice is being breached is evident,” he said. He asked Uhuru to appoint the 41 judges to ensure Kenyans get swift justice.