Nairobi County Assembly MCAs have resolved to impeach Governor Mike Sonko following the Court’s decision to bar him from accessing his office. The decision was reached on Saturday morning after a meeting was held involving elected MCAs at the assembly precincts. The ward reps from both Jubilee and ODM parties resolved to call for a special sitting next week, where a motion on impeachment will be tabled. On December 13,  a section of MCAs held a meeting at Windsor where they discussed the status of Nairobi County and possible ways to bring stability. Minority Chief Whip Peter Imwatok said that the house should accept that there is a very big crisis facing the county and as legislatures, they have to find a solution and not be part of the crisis. “The majority of MCAs are in agreement that Nairobi has a big crisis. We must follow the Constitution and we will not pamper the Governor like a baby and let Nairobi sink just to make him happy. If impeaching him will pave way for stability in Nairobi let it be so,” he said. Imwatok who also resides as Makongeni MCA said a letter has already been addressed to Speaker Beatrice Elachi requesting a special sitting. He further said that come Monday 16 December, they will proceed with collecting signatures the required 82 signatures needed to move a censure motion. “This is not an ODM affair but also we have sober mixed Jubilee MCAs on board and next week it will not be business as usual even if we are in recess," he said. He added that they will be at the forefront to indicate the direction that the county needs to seeking input from Jubilee party leader President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga, who is the leader of ODM. However, it was mentioned that some MCAs, mostly the nominated who are believed to be close to Governor Sonko were against the impeachment. Nevertheless, the minority whip said the few members against the motion will not hinder them from proceeding with the impeachment plan. Embakasi Ward rep Michael Ogada said he will collect the signatures come Monday from both sides of the house. He explained that the point where the Nairobi crisis had reached it is only them who can save the situation. “There are only two options it’s either Sonko goes home or we do. But we can it go home because of his sins and that is why I will personally spearhead the collection of signatures on Monday,” Ogada said. A section of Jubilee MCAs who are in support of the impeachment will be meeting this evening to further discuss the matter. “One of us has an event in Kileleshwa and we shall be discussing on the matter that is awaiting us next week,” said a second term MCA who sort anonymity. The governor was barred by the Milimani Anti-corruption court from stepping into his office until January 15, 2020, when his case will be heard. He is facing more than 19 accounts including abuse of office, money laundering, receiving bribes and conflict of interest. He was released on a bail term of Sh15 million on December 11. The governor has been charged with money laundering and unlawful acquisition of public property at City Hall amounting to Sh357 million.