Few will disagree that 2016 was the watershed moment for women football in Kenya. After years of trial and error, largely courtesy of the Football Kenya Federation (FKF) women football League, the country’s women’s team managed to qualify for a first-ever African Women Cup of Nations. This was a historic feat, a mighty feather in the cap of the then newly installed Football Kenya Federation regime headed by its President Nick Mwendwa and assisted by Doris Petra. Though Kenya would lose all their three matches at the tourney in Cameroon, lofty standards had been set. Fast forward to 2019, Starlets achievements evoked memories of 2016. Harambee Starlets were once again grabbing the headlines both at home and continentally. Beating renowned women football giants Ghana’s Black Queens en-route to the penultimate stage of the Africa Women Olympic qualifiers, was not an achievement to be frowned at. The loss to Zambia in the next stage was a low moment for the confident girls. To their credit though, it did not put them down for long as it would for lesser beings, a testament to their drive and desire to succeed. The Starlets team, under the guidance of long-serving coach David Ouma and his assistant Jackline Juma, took the disappointment in their stride and confidently went on to bag their first Cecafa women’s Championship crown at the expense of holders and hosts Tanzania. This milestone was achieved without conceding a goal with teenager Jentrix Shikangwa taking home the Golden Boot and compatriot Annette Kundu claiming the best goalkeeper award. All this breathtaking displays were given recognition when the Starlets were nominated for the best team category in the Caf women football awards due in January. Ouma was recognised by being named for the Coach of the Year award. Despite all their successes on and off the pitch, the Starlets like most women footballers in the country have nothing, in their bank balance to show for their efforts. Disappointed by the lack of financial rewards, leading players Mwanahalima Adam and Corazone Aquino warned that they no longer wanted to only be congratulated by words. “Everywhere we go people think we have money but the truth is we have nothing. Unlike our male colleagues who won the Cecafa, we are yet even to be invited to go to State House to show our trophy to the President,” they said in local television interview after their Cecafa win. Juma, their assistant coach agreed with the players that there were no monetary benefits for playing and succeeding with the national team. “As it stands the girls are still owed allowances for their Olympic qualifiers. This is an issue that has demoralised many and needs to be addressed,” she appealed. Petra, the sole women leader in the FKF National Executive Committee, admitted there were challenges when it comes to money issues for the national team and women football in general. “There are grants that we normally receive from Fifa and we have applied for the same; but we are yet to get a response. We have satisfactorily been audited by our own accountants as well as local and the Fifa accountants and our finances were found to be sound,” she explained. “Once that money is available, I can assure the country things will be better for our women footballers,” she added. With the federation inking deals with Betika and Odibets for development of football at the grass roots level, many wonder why women football is yet to find financial backers. Petra challenged football officials at the county (branch) level to form women leagues to complement the federation’s own Women Premier League and the Women Division One. “The counties need to be proactive. Very few of them have leagues of their own where our young girls could be playing and nurturing their talent. We depend largely on schools to scout players for the national team. If for example, the counties had their own leagues, they could have benefitted from the Odibet sponsorship which does not discriminate whether it is a women or a men’s team in their sponsorship for county leagues,” she remarked. Lack of money in the WPL is still something the federation needs to take a keen look at. Petra and the federation were widely lambasted for their apparent apathy towards the women game when they failed to attend the coronation of Vihiga Queens as the top-flight women champions. It is this kind of negative press the federation will need to avoid if the women league is to receive positive feedback from sponsors and corporates who are willing to invest in the game. Beldine Odemba, the Starlets team manager, who has also been short listed for the WorldRemit Future Stars coaching competition, suggested that if the women matches were to be taken seriously, games involving their teams should be played at recognised venues used by their male counterparts. “Right now, our girls play in nondescript venues belonging to schools where their visibility to corporates is limited. If we could also have our matches being played at Kasarani or other better venues, it will improve the quality of the players and also advertise the women game,” she reckoned in a TV interview. With the football elections now likely to be held next year, many aver that it would be good if more women win top elective posts in the next football administration from the county to the national level. 