“There can be no keener revelation of a society’s soul than the way in which it treats its children.” These wise words of Nelson Mandela reflect our responsibility in forging our children into future leaders who can spur global development to higher levels. This requires us to create the right foundations from which they can soar to greater heights than us. We need to identify and tackle issues that will shape the lives of our children, such as climate change, domestic violence, healthcare access and educational opportunities. The Fifth Assessment Report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) warns that the ravages of climate change will worsen by 2065 if we do not reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Already, the side effects of climate change have been witnessed in Kenya and Mozambique where catastrophic flooding in 2019 caused multiple deaths and displacements. Many children died in these calamities, others became orphans whereas many more were scarred mentally, physically and emotionally. Our pursuit of development with reckless abandon presents a bleak future for our young ones if IPCC’s projections are anything to go by. Health remains a core pillar of a country’s socioeconomic success. As future custodians of the earth, our children need equitable access to healthcare as captured by the objectives of universal health care (UHC). Unfortunately, healthcare systems in many developing countries, including Kenya, are skewed in favour of the moneyed and those with health insurance. Statistics from the World Health Organization (WHO) in 2019 raise the alarm on increasing prevalence of child obesity worldwide. In Kenya, children have succumbed to cancer, which is now the third largest cause of mortality in the country. As we usher in 2020, immediate implementation of cancer preventative services and enhancing access to cancer screening will  save the lives of many children affected by this scourge. Access to education is equally an important ingredient for forging today’s children into future drivers of development. Sadly, sobering statistics from UNESCO Information Unit in 2018 indicate that 265 million children aged 6-17 years – mostly from Sub-Saharan Africa – are out of school. In Kenya, focus will be on the competency based curriculum (CBC) to see whether it will enable every child harness his or her ability for individual or corporate benefit. Unfortunately, many lives may be cut short by child molestation, infanticides and homicides, which dominated media headlines locally and internationally in 2019. Such cases portray a decay in the moral fabric of society that could eventually be tattered beyond repair if the trend continues. Moving forward, the onus is on individual countries to religiously apply the Convention  on the Rights of the Child that prohibits any form of violence against children. Failure to do that will normalise violence against children most of who may mete the same treatment to others in the society. Children learn best by imitating older people and not by listening. If we do not assume responsibility by tackling the issues affecting the globe, chances are they will not do so either.