After finishing second in the Kenya Hockey Union Premier League, Wazalendo have now set their sight on a second appearance at next year’s African Cup of Club Championships. Wazalendo held their nerves to beat Police 3-2 courtesy of goals from Danston Barasa (2nd minute), Joseph Kasua (24) and Sutcliffe Usagi (50) with Samuel Oungo (53) and Titus Kimutai (55) trying to inspire the law-enforcers into a late comeback. Despite finishing second with 36 points, coach Fidelis Kimanzi observed that the boys did not play to their full potential the entire season. He added that they will look to promote some of their promising players to the senior side. He said: “The boys tried and if I was to grade the season’s performance, I can give them a ‘B’. We tend to relax in matches when we lead and today was not different. We have young players knocking at the door for first team opportunities and we will consider them,” remarked Kimanzi. “In 2007 we arrived late for the ACC Championships and we only played friendlies. Next year, I am confident my charges will give a good account of themselves. We will also consider the possibility of signing new players.” His opposite number, Patrick Mugambi, hinted at reshuffling his attack as they launch an assault on the title that has escaped them for the past two seasons. He said: “We need to recruit deadly finishers who can win games for us. We were disadvantaged in attack. Concentration lapses also cost us points but we will come back stronger.” Police finished third with 32 points. Meanwhile, Aurelia Atieno’s 13th minute goal was all the Lakers needed to beat Sailors and finish fourth in the women’s category. The newbies’ collected 21 points. Lakers tactician Austin Tuju expects the Kisumu-based side to fight for honours next season. He said: “It has been an experimental season for the girls but thumbs up for the spirited fight. With recruitment and a thorough pre-season, we will try to battle for the title next year. The team has shown that they are very much ready.”