A lobby calling itself Western Elites Association has formed a technical committee to interrogate the BBI report from an economic perspective and establish whether the region has space in it. A statement by association chairman Dennis Omulisya yesterday said the Western Kenya Renaissance Technical Committee will comprise professionals, industrialists, farmers, business people, religious leaders, women, elders and persons living with disabilities. “The committee will state if the report brings meaning to our sugarcane, tea, milk, coffee, maize, paper, avocado, rice, cotton and potatoes, and solves the challenges facing our people,” the statement said. Omulisya said the committee will also encourage and urge residents in Western to read and internalise the BBI report, as advised by the President during its launch last Wednesday. Western Elites Association (WEA) is a registered association that promotes socio-economic empowerment and transformation of the lives of people living in Western. Leaders from various regions have been meeting to assess the impact of the report on their people as lobbying for its implementation picks momentum. Mt Kenya region leaders met in Embu last week and embraced the report. Rift Valley leaders are set to retreat in Naivasha this weekend to discuss the report. However, leaders from Western Kenya are yet to take a stand on the report birthed by the Building Bridges Initiative task force formed by President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga. ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi on Tuesday said the report failed to capture issues that ail the country. He said the report addressed itself on issues that have been addressed by other commissions and which remain unimplemented. Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya has supported the report, saying it will strengthen devolution. But Malava MP Malulu Injendi said the region's leadership needs to meet and come up with a common position on the BBI report. “As leaders from the region, we are still talking to each other and I’m certain we’ll finally meet and adopt a stand on the matter. What Oparanya said on the report is purely personal and not the position of the community,” he said on the phone yesterday. There are three groupings in Western which could make the adoption of a common stand in the region a challenge. While some leaders are leaning towards Mudavadi, others are backing Raila. A third segment backs DP William Ruto leaning Jubilee faction. Yesterday, Omulisya said that the committee will also check the completed, ongoing, planned and stalled projects in Busia, Kakamega, Vihiga, Trans Nzoia and Bungoma counties to establish whether devolution has benefited the region. The committee will also interrogate the benefits of the Big Four agenda by the Jubilee administration in the region so far. The committee will also mobilise Western Kenya and diaspora leaders and professionals for a meeting and discuss economic issues affecting the region, its growth and its people. 