The government will spend Sh8.2 billion on laboratories in public secondary schools, Education Principal Secretary Belio Kipsang has said. The World Bank-funded project will ensure adequate laboratories in secondary schools. Kipsang, who spoke on Monday during the launch of two Sh1.6 billion Nova Pioneer schools in Eldoret, said the government is committed to creating a level playing field for students in all public schools. To address the teachers' deficit and ensure a level playing field,  the government is employing 10,000 intern teachers. “It will not matter which school a student attends since the playing field will be level and each learner will have equal opportunity to excel in their education,” he said. The Nova Pioneer Group of Schools partnered with Laptrust (Local Authorities Pension Trust) to develop the girls and boys schools. Their first admissions will be in January 2020. Kipsang, who represented Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha, said the government has achieved the one to one book ratio for all learners in its 100% transition policy. “All our learners from grade one to form four currently have a one to one book ratio,” the PS said. The occasion was attended by Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago and his Trans Nzoia counterpart Patrick Khaemba. The PS said all this year’s KCPE candidates will transit to secondary school next year. The government will give scholarships to 9,000 Form One learners from informal settlements.  Kipsang said more than 200,000 pupils will join private schools next year. “Although we have placed more than 1,000,000 students in public secondary schools, we are cognizant that some will join private schools. Nova Pioneer Group of Schools alone will absorb 400,” he said. The PS commended the private sector for its critical role in ensuring that all children transit to the next level of learning after primary school. Kipsang said that Kenya was among the few countries that have achieved the 100% transition from primary to secondary school.  