 @alalmaurice  Some 102 chemists have been closed down in Nyanza region after the Pharmacy and Poisons Board found they were being operated illegally. The board's head of good distribution practices and ports of entry Dominic Kariuki on Friday said the owner of a chemist in Awasi, Kisumu county, was arrested after he was found stocking government drugs. The crackdown on illegal pharmaceutical outlets in the region was carried out by PPB inspectors in conjunction with police. Kariuki said the stock was seized and owners of the chemists arrested. The crackdown, he said, was carried out to increase the routine inspections that are being undertaken by the regional inspectors. Kariuki said the list of targeted illegal chemists was arrived at following the mapping done by Nyanza regional commissioner together with board's officers. "The non-compliant outlets were identified from PPB online database," he said at the government chemist in Kisumu. Most suspects were found illegally operating the business of a pharmacist and a pharmaceutical technologist. Some were also found operating in premises that were not registered. Of the 56 cases that have been taken to court so far, those accused persons who pleaded guilty have been handed fines ranging from Sh15,000 to Sh75,000, Kariuki said. The other accused persons who pleaded not guilty were given court bonds of up to Sh500,000 as the cases proceed. "All the seized drugs were handed over to the Pharmacy and Poisons Board for safe disposal," Kariuki said. He commended the Kisii law courts for the enhanced court bonds issued to the accused persons. "We request the courts to enhance the fines charged on those found guilty of malpractices so as to act as deterrence for those who engage in illegal activities as they are a danger to public health," Kariuki said. The details of all the non-compliant outlets have been shared with the regional police commander for enforcement of closure. Kariuki, however, noted with concern the presence of ‘unmarked chemists which is a key pointer to an illegal pharmaceutical outlet. He asked the public to report such premises for immediate action. Among the challenges faced by the inspectors include licensed wholesalers of drugs who are supplying illegal chemists. The other challenge involves absentee superintendents where licensed pharmacies are left to be run by unqualified personnel. Kariuki said professionals who have been identified engaging in these illegalities have been summoned for necessary disciplinary action. Recently, the board launched guidelines for good distribution practices, transportation and safe disposal of pharmaceuticals. Kariuki told those who wish to engage in the business of pharmacy must notify PPB three months in advance for advice on the suitability of the premises among other requirements. He said all pharmacy outlets and hospitals with expired drugs have been directed to safely quarantine them and liaise with the regional inspectors for safe disposal. The board has distributed mini-labs to its regional offices for random sampling and testing of medicines in the market to ensure drugs are of good quality, safe and efficacious. Kariuki advised the public to use health safety codes displayed in registered pharmacy outlets to verify the legality of the premises by sending SMS to 21031. The message is free.  edited by p.o