Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru has moved to take legal actions against popular artiste King Kaka over his controversial song 'Wajinga Nyinyi'. Waiguru says that the Song released two days ago has sought to link her with the National Youth Service scandals. In a demand letter dated December 15, her lawyers Kiragu Wathuta and Company Advocates, says that King Kaka uttered various allegations and innuendos concerning her which are wholly false and deceptive. She adds that the utterances are without any basis whatsoever and which have amounted to gross and blatant misrepresentation of facts and deliberate mischaracterization of her conduct. She quotes part of the lyrics saying; "Ati Waiguru ako kwa office na story ya NYS tulisahau. Biro moja alibuy eight thao, biro tunanunuanga mbao. Either sisi ndio wajinga ama akona marking scheme ya Accau." King Kaka has been given 48 hours to offer and unequivocal, unqualified and unreserved retraction as well as an apology to Waiguru subject to the firms review and approval. He has also been asked to permanently, immediately and unconditionally withdraw, pull down and or delete the song from all social media platforms including but not limited to Twitter and YouTube. The suit states he should offer a full and unconditional admission of liability in writing where after the issue of quantum damages to Waiguru shall be pursued. It further adds that he should not release any further defamatory songs or words against their client. He was also reminded that every re-distribution of the song mentioned herein results in a fresh defamatory action against Waiguru. Waiguru's lawyers say that they are under instructions "to institute multi-faceted swift, decisive and extremely inconveniencing adverse but perfectly lawful remedial proceedings and complaints against King Kaka." This is if he fails to give a written confirmation indicating compliance with the conditions within the 48 hours. "Failure to the above we will be seeking injunctive orders of restraining you from further circulating and distributing and defamatory lyrics and/or words against our client, damages on the footing of aggravated and exemplary damages, the immediate pursuit of closure of your twitter account and costs of and incidental to the proceedings that will ensue," the demand letter states.