The return to peace in most parts of the bandit-prone Kerio Valley has been one of the major achievements in the Rift Valley region this year. Another major highlight has been a resounding success in the fight against female genital mutilation. Governors Alex Tolgos (Elgeyo Marakwet) and John Lonyangapuo (West Pokot) have promised to step up the peace efforts in the region. They want to ensure that banditry is completely wiped out in the new year. “We are very happy with the prevailing peace situation and we will work with all stakeholders to ensure that we achieve more cohesion among our people,” Governor Tolgos said. Tolgos said peace will unlock the development potential in the region. In 2018, the region recorded more than 150 deaths linked to banditry but this year at least 40 deaths were reported. The region covers Elgeyo Marakwet, Pokot, Baringo, Samburu and Turkana which are mostly affected by cattle rustling. Except for a few attacks in parts of Baringo and Samburu, residents in most areas of the region say they are happy with the peaceful situation. Deputy President William Ruto led the signing of a peace accord between communities in Kerio Valley and it seems to be working in most areas. “We celebrate our government, elders, churches, political leaders, professionals including teachers  and the communities for working hard to ensure that Kerio Valley is a peaceful haven,” NGOs council chairman Stephen Cheboi said. Wiping out FGM The region has recorded more than 80 per cent success in the fight against the FGM. Minimal incidents of the practice were reported in Kerio Valley where the Marakwet and Pokot communities have for many years practised it. FGM has been blamed for poor education of girls in the affected counties. The counties have also been recording low transition rates of girls to secondary schools because of FGM and early marriages. But thanks to concerted efforts within the communities, there has been an upturn in the education of girls. Elgeyo Marakwet Woman Representative Jane Kiptoo has led the mobilisation of stakeholders in ensuring the success of education for girls in the region. “With the decline in FGM and early marriages, we are out to ensure that our girls attain education to the highest levels possible just like the boys,” she said. Oil The actualisation of oil exports from Turkana has brought hope and good prospects for the region with counties planning to exploit all available growth opportunities to uplift the lives of residents. Governor Jackson Mandago who is the chairman of the North Rift Economic Bloc says they will explore more joint investments.