The Anti-Counterfeit Authority has warned of a possible proliferation of goods during the festive season, especially at the Coast. Security officers have been put on high alert after undergoing training on how to identify counterfeits. ACA executive director Elema Halake on Tuesday said they have increased surveillance in areas considered hotspots for the counterfeits. “We have mapped out the possible routes the counterfeiters might try to use to sneak in their illicit and substandard goods,” he told the Star on phone. He said consumption of goods and services significantly increases during the festive season in Kenya and globally. "This is when manufacturers of counterfeit goods make a kill in the country because of the porous borders and corruption at the Mombasa Port," Halake said. Plainclothes officers have also been deployed to various supermarkets, warehouses and other wholesale premises across the region. The ACA has put in place measures to protect Kenyans against counterfeits which risk the health of Kenyans apart from undermining the country’s economy. Halake said this is part of the recommendations contained in the National Action Plan and Implementation Framework to Combat Illicit Trade 2019-2022. The document, which was launched in March, lays down the roadmap in collaborative efforts between the public and private sectors on how to deal with illicit trade. Last Thursday and Friday, the ACA cascaded the framework to the 47 counties. The authority held a meeting with shippers, logistics companies and stakeholders in the maritime industry as it took them through how to identify counterfeits. He said the festive season comes with its own opportunities and challenges. “There will be a lot of consumption of food, beverages, liquor and very soon when the schools open, textbooks and other stationery will be required. This is when the counterfeiters take advantage of the demand,” Halake said. He urged Kenyans to be extra vigilant on what they consume. “Don’t be deceived by the price. Remember, cheap is always expensive. If you see anything unusually cheap, think twice,” he said. He said consumers should also look out for the packaging of the products they buy. “Buy from the genuine e-distribution lines." He said it is important to keep a receipt of the goods one buys to facilitate easy follow-up on the matter in case of complaints. He said the authority will also launch a National Rapid Result Initiative to deal with the problem of counterfeit and substandard goods. Counterfeiters do not pay taxes thus deny the government the much-needed revenue, he said. "They also steal a significant market share from the legitimate manufacturers in the country, thereby affecting the economy at large." He said President Uhuru Kenyatta's Big Four agenda cannot be realised in an environment where illegitimate trade competes with legitimate trade. “We are going to have a collaborative framework between the ACA and other partner government agencies to ensure that our port facilitates legitimate trade only." Edited by R.Wamochie