Judge Mumbi Ngugi's precedent-setting High Court ruling that locked governors facing graft charges out of office has turned into a nightmare for beleaguered county bosses. Judge Ngugi upheld chief magistrate Douglas Ogoti's ruling barring Samburu governor Moses Lenolkulal from accessing his office. She ruled that Section 62(6) of the Anti-corruption and Economic Crimes Act is unconstitutional as it helps obliterate the "political hygiene" and was contrary to the constitutional requirement of integrity in governance, against the national values and principles of leadership and integrity. Suspicious that their political enemies and state functionaries could connive to push for their prosecution over graft allegations, governors are not sitting pretty. On Monday, Council of Governors chairman Wycliffe Oparanya (Kakamega)said they will challenge the ruling as Kiambu governor Ferdinand Waititu and his Nairobi counterpart Mike Sonko have also been barred fro accessing office. There are claims governors no longer involve their deputies — who have supported the ruling — in sensitive county matters amid fears that any unfettered access to classified information could be their poisonous chalice. The revolutionary ruling by Ngugi in August, therefore, came as a shocker for governors under the anti-graft radar. A governor who spoke to the Star on condition of anonymity admitted that since the ruling was made, most of their colleagues have scaled up vigilance on those around them. “We have been forced to keep an eye on our backs. As a governor, you can never trust anybody and this has made us to work in constant fear,” the governor from Nyanza said. The county boss further revealed that some have changed their aides to seal loopholes for possible leakages. “Obviously some of us have had to reshuffle our staff,” he said. The ruling, which has been hailed by many as a landmark, came as a major relief for Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji, who was pushing for graft suspects to be barred from accessing their offices. “Would it serve the public interest for him to go back to office and preside over the finances of the county that he has been charged with embezzling?" Ngugi posed in her ruling. According to her, allowing persons facing criminal charges to public offices entrenches corruption and impunity and goes against national values. In April, Governor Lenolkulal was charged with four counts of abuse of office and conflict of interest leading to the loss of Sh84.6 million public funds. Charged governors are now forced to keep off their offices until the case in heard an determined. A governor can only access his office with written permission from the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission. The decision was seen as a leap forward in the fight against corruption but politicians, including governors, read mischief, claiming it was a scheme to kick them from office through the back-door. However, amid the storm, lawyers and human rights activists have called for much stricter measures to ensure enforcement of the historic judgment. Some governors, especially those in bad books with their deputies, have said the ruling amounted to a coup. They argue that the concept of ‘stepping aside’ was susceptible to major abuse by players in the criminal justice system and in the Executive keen on getting them out of office. But anti-graft crusaders have welcomed the ruling, which they termed as a masterstroke in the renewed war against corruption. Ndung'u Wainana, the executive director at the International Center for Policy and Conflict, says the ruling is a major win in the fight against corruption. "Public or State officers whose integrity is in question should never be near any office. It should apply across board and affect all elected leaders, including MCAs,” Wainaina told the Star. Wainaina filed the case before Justice Ngugi while seeking to block Lenolkulal who had been charged for corruption from accessing office. “The ruling in our case did not exonerate leaders who have questions on their integrity," Wainaina added, noting that all the other leaders — elected and nominated — should step aside once charged. Former Law Society of Kenya president Isaac Okero said at the heart of the problem is Chapter Six of the Constitution on leadership and integrity. “This chapter suffered a near-fatal political blow at the very start of our constitutional journey when it was at the centre of a highly charged political debate and litigation that preceded the 2013 election,” Okero said. In February 2013, the High Court dismissed an integrity case against Jubilee Coalition's Uhuru Kenyatta and his then running mate William Ruto, clearing the way for them to vie in the 2013 General Election. The court ruled that the duo had already been cleared by the electoral agency, which is mandated to review and clear the eligibility of candidates. The presiding judge was Msagha Mbogholi. The consequence, Okero argued, is that public officers facing criminal charges have a significant legal authority thus placing their presumption of innocence far above the constitutional imperative to uphold integrity in public service “Justice Ngugi’s decision was a welcome signal that the courts are now ready to give teeth to Chapter Six. This is a hugely important decision in the war against corruption and impunity,” Okero said. Governors Waititu, Samuel Lenolkulal and Sospeter Ojaamong (Busia) are the county chiefs facing corruption-related cases. High Court judge Ngenye Macharia upheld the trial magistrate's decision to bar Waititu from accessing office in what turned into a political nightmare to the governor. Waititu became the biggest casualty of the ruling that opened an all-out fight with his deputy, James Nyoro. Nyoro, who had a long-standing political fallout with his boss, got the last laugh after he assumed office on acting capacity following Waititu's prosecution in the Sh588 million graft case. Constitutional lawyer Peter Wanyama argues that Justice Ngugi‘s decision on ‘stepping aside’ was problematic. “Governors, MPs, MCAs and the President are elected by the people. There is a special procedure for their removal from office, through recall or impeachment. Being absent from the office triggers other things,” Wanyama said. In the past, only state officers have been asked to step aside once they appear in court. 