Two former secondary schools students have been sentenced to death by a Narok court for violently robbing and killing a taxi driver. Bashir Ibrahim and Ibrahim Abdullahi had appeared before Narok chief magistrate Wilbroda Juma and charged that between March 14 and 15 in 2016 at Total area in Narok town, jointly with others, they violently robbed Richard Simiren, a taxi driver, of a motor vehicle valued at Sh1.2 million and his mobile phone valued at Sh15,000 and killed him. Bashir was a student at Fanaka Secondary School in Narok while Ibrahim was studying at  Nkareta Secondary School in the same county. Police using a tracking device found the car at Mwariki in Nakuru and arrested five suspects but two were released for lack of sufficient evidence. The officers recovered the body of the deceased in the boot of his car and suspected the culprits were on their way to dispose of it. Another accomplice in the case, Solomon Njeri, who was 17 and a student at Fanaka Secondary School when the offence was committed, was in June 2016 sentenced to serve three years in a correctional institution after he pleaded guilty to the charges. The criminals are alleged to have posed as customers and hired the taxi driver to take them to an unknown destination but when he failed to come home or call, the family members reported the matter to Narok police station leading to a search for the  missing driver. In mitigation, the young men through their lawyer  pleaded for leniency, saying they regretted their actions and needed a chance to reform. They asked the court to consider the fact that they were students at the time of committing the offence and desired to continue with their education. The prosecution on its part maintained that the offense was serious and Simiren was murdered in the most inhumane manner and justice needed to be served. The state called for a stiff penalty to act as a lesson to others of like mind. In her judgment, the magistrate said she noted the mitigation but agreed with the prosecution that justice had to be served on a family that lost a loved one in such an inhuman manner. She gave the accused persons 14 days to appeal. The magistrate said she exercised her judicial powers as enshrined in the law in sentencing the accused persons to death. The Supreme Court in December 2017 ruled that the mandatory death penalty was against the Constitution which guarantees the right to life.  The highest court in the land then directed that any court dealing with capital offenses should be allowed to use judicial discretion when delivering judgments. This followed an appeal by Francis Karioko Mwatetu and another who questioned the constitutionality of the sentence. The apex court further directed the Attorney General, the Director of Public Prosecutions and other agencies to prepare a detailed professional review of cases regarding sentencing. It also ordered that the law be placed before the National Assembly Speaker for necessary amendments. ENDS