In a bid to hone skills and increase James Mwangi's chances of qualifying to the 2020 Tokyo Olympics, the Kenya Karate Federation has hinted on hiring a kata expert. KKF secretary-general Gabriel Mutuku said the federation is keen to allow Mwangi also participate in the on-going world leagues and they have made a financial appeal to the National Olympic Committee of Kenya. Mwangi was the only Kenyan representative in the beach Africa Games staged in  Cape Verde in June this year. Despite being the best in the country in his category, the low-keyed athlete is currently ranked position 61 worldwide and needs to finish top 30 to be assured of qualification. However, he can also book an automatic ticket if he emerges best at the African Championship scheduled for February, Morocco. "We have requested for one kata expert from the African body though they are expensive to hire. Mwangi is likely to get Olympic slot if he features in the league. "Remember just attending the leagues you gain points.  Our proposal is with NOC-K and looks positive but Mwangi needs to train better and improve on his weaknesses to realise his full potential," Mutuku stated. He continued, "We dropped points by not taking a team to Botswana just before the African games in Morocco. We, however, regained some in the AG games and we should target more in Morocco come next year." Mwangi on his part welcomed the move, saying it will give him the impetus to train harder and stay focused. The 34-year-old who finished 12th in the African Championship in Botswana expressed confidence of making it to Tokyo and wants to utilise the immediate African qualifying option. He said his target is to emerge best in the continental showpiece. He said: "I need to upgrade my speed, strength and technical skills if I have to compete with the best. I am seventh on the continent and with better preparations, I can be the best and definitely board the plane to Tokyo. We have leagues in Chile, Paris, Rabat, Sulzsberg and Moscow and attending them will help me gain experience and exposure. I also need to improve my point tally from 480 to around 900 to be better placed for Tokyo." The final worldwide Olympic qualifiers will be held in Paris in May 2020.  