Trade unions have said they want the Salaries Remuneration Commission stopped from interfering with the workers and employers. Led by Central Organisation of Trade Union the representatives said they will move to court to block the SRC from any Collective Bargain Agreement negotiations. Cotu deputy secretary general Benson Okwaro said that the SRC should do their job and allow them to negotiate and register their CBA freely. Okwaro said that there are instances where unions have negotiated CBAs with employers, signed and registered them only for the SRC to block them via courts. “This is rendering the services of the trade unions very difficult and we must put a stop to it. They should stick to their job which is only advisory to the government,” he said. He said their legal team is ready to seek court action before the year ends. “Where there is money and the parties have agreed and signed CBA, they have no role whatsoever. We are going to do everything within our means to get an interpretation on the role of SRC,” Okwaro said. The Kenya Electrical Traders Allied Workers Union (Ketawu) secretary general Ernest Nadome said that the SRC has not done much to help workers. Nadome said that SRC's constitutional role is to determine the terms of state officers but only play an advisory role when it comes to public officers. “And this is where we have issues with the commission, to what extent should they advise?” Nadome asked. He noted that they have decided to pursue the matter through legal means but they have other options. “Even when the employer has agreed that they have the capacity to pay, you find SRC blocking a CBA in the guise that they are the ones to determine what the workers should be paid,” he said. He faulted the SRC guidelines requiring unions to submit proposals year in advance, saying that negotiations with employers are based on performance. Nadome said the BBI report failed to capture some of the proposals they presented. He demanded the disbandment of the commission. President Uhuru Kenyatta yesterday extended the term of the BBI task force to guide the implementation of the report.