National Para power-lifting head coach Denis Omondi believes maintaining a balanced body weight will be crucial for Gabriel Magu and Joseph Mariga as they prepare for the 2020 World Cup slated for between February 5 and 7 in Abuja, Nigeria. Omondi said Magu (U69kg) and Mariga (U49kg) must ensure they meet the thin lines ahead of the global showpiece, which also acts as a qualifier for the Tokyo 2020 Paralympics. This, he said, will ensure that they feature in their prefered categories and avoid being put in other divisions or outright disqualification. “The men must maintain their body weight balance. I am not as disturbed with the ladies as I am with the men. Magu and Mariga must really work hard because, after some monitoring, I have observed their inconsistent weight," said Omondi. “If they weigh above or below their registered weights in February, they will be moved to other weight categories that they will have not trained for. The worst repercussions would be disqualification from the championships altogether." Magu was in the 2016 Rio Paralympics team but did not compete after testing positive for terbutaline, a substance banned by WADA. He had taken a single dose of cough medication for whose use the International Paralympics Committee acknowledged was not a sport-related intention. Therefore, Magu only received a reprimand founded on "no significant fault or negligence for a specified substance." Omondi is however impressed with the women pair of Hellen Wawira and Joyce Wambui, who have been entered in the U41kg and U79kg categories respectively. “If they (ladies) maintain or even register a slight improvement on their weight levels, I’m sure they will qualify for Tokyo,” registered the coach. To earn the tickets to the World Cup, the women lifted a huge weight above their qualifying marks and this makes their tactician more optimistic they will make the cut for Tokyo. Wawira elevated 90kg, 35kg more than the qualifying mark (55kg) for her category. On the other hand, Wambui managed 100kg while the mark for her category was 77kg. Magu hit his category’s qualifying mark 145 as Mariga slightly surpassed his cutoff mark of 100kg by lifting 105kg. The team is training the Steel Gym in Pangani.