Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko was on Wednesday transferred from the Kenyatta National Hospital to the Milimani Law Court in an ambulance ahead of his bail ruling. Sonko was picked by an ambulance and escorted with a convoy comprising of DCI detectives in a land cruiser and two Mercedes Benz. He exited from the hospital's emergency section. Heavily armed security personnel had earlier been deployed at the hospital after Sonko was admitted at the health facility on Monday. They included DCI officers, prison guards, AP and regular police. Sonko arrived at the Milimani Law Court shortly after 11 am. Sonko's other co-accused were also present in court ahead of Anti-Corruption Chief Magistrate Douglas Ogoti's ruling. Sonko has been charged with money laundering and unlawful acquisition of public property amounting to Sh357 million at City Hall. He is also accused of irregularly awarding tenders to his close aides, forging documents and misappropriating county funds. The county boss denied the charges on Monday. All eyes will be on Ogoti to see if he will go against or stick with the earlier precedence Justice Mumbi Ngugi's ruling. Ngugi ruled in July that governors charged with corruption should be locked out of their offices until their cases are heard and determined. Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu and his Samburu counterpart Moses Lonolkulal were barred from accessing their offices after they were charged. Sonko was on Tuesday taken from remand prison to hospital as court documents revealed the diseases he suffered from prior to his release from jail 18 years ago. Doctors attending to the governor at Kenyatta National Hospital did not say what he was being treated for but Sonko's handlers said he suffered chest pains and high blood pressure. Sonko was in Kamiti Prison awaiting his bail application ruling by  Ogoti. The 44-year old gold-loving Sonko is a divisive politician who has previously faced and denied allegations of drug trafficking and money laundering, according to the BBC.