Did a former Jubilee official hold talks with three MPs considered to be very close allies of Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka? There are claims the former official held secret talks with the legislators at his private home on Saturday but details remain closely guarded. It is alleged the official is scheming for the former vice president to establish a working relationship with a Jubilee faction that is fronting Interior CS Fred Matiang'i as 2022 compromise presidential candidate. Being a preliminary meeting, little was agreed but the trio was dispatched to woo Kalonzo into the proposed alliance that seeks to vanquish DP William Ruto's presidential ambition. Has a high-end car that disappeared been traced to a former county official? The vehicle was one of those imported a few years back by a county from one of the arid regions. It could not be accounted for at the Port of Mombasa for clearance. However, the disappearance may soon haunt a county official being accused of having connived with a clearing agent to divert the car. Details show that the officer was found to have irregularly registered the car in the name of a company where he is a co-director after hiding it for months. An investigating agency is said to have narrowed down on him with clear directions to charge him. Did a newly sworn-in commissioner of a constitutional state agency decline a high-end vehicle he was allocated last week? The commissioner is said to have turned down the official Toyota Land-cruiser assigned to him and instead demanded a Range-Rover, a luxurious vehicle not popular with most government institutions. To make matters worse, he also demanded that his wife be allocated a government vehicle against government policy. There are reports he has not reported to work since last week following the falling-out with the chief executive. The well connected commissioner is now threatening to lead colleagues to reject the renewal of the CEO's term when it expires soon. A former county official battling graft charges is crying foul that his party has forsaken him. After decamping a popular party in the lead-up to a general election and successfully managing to be elected to serve in the devolved unit, the besieged man now says he is being set up as a sacrificial lamb on a wider revenge mission. One of his aides whispered to Corridors that his successful ouster from office was part of a protracted and choreographed scheme to cut him down to size over his arrogance and braggadocio. While he is jobless and remains on the radar of the anti-graft agencies, he has no one to turn to as most political bigwigs from his region and even party officials never pick up his calls. 