Deputy President William Ruto's bid to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2022 will not be stopped, National  Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale has said. Duale said those trying to derail Ruto's quest are wasting their time and the sooner they realised the DP will be the fifth president of Kenya, the better. “I want to give those opposing Ruto some free advice. Stop wasting your time, resources and energy on an already determined contest,” Duale said. The legislator spoke in his Garissa Town constituency on Monday. He said 2022 politics will not distract the current administration's efforts to deliver on their mandate, but William Ruto's eyes are fixed on the top seat. Duale accused ODM leader Raila Odinga of using the handshake with President Uhuru Kenyatta to lock out William Ruto from the 2022 race to State House. He said Ruto's supporters are aware that Raila is using the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) to frustrate the deputy president's bid for the presidency. “We are ready to support Ruto all the way whether the BBI comes up with a parliamentary or presidential system,” Duale said. He added, “We want to focus on improving the health,  education sectors in order to transform the country under Jubilee and the leadership of party chair Uhuru Kenyatta.” The lawmaker said Kenyans should not be taken round in circles so that the Jubilee administration loses focus of its mandate. “Jubilee has a social contract with Kenyans to improve on health, education and create employment opportunities for the youth. This is where we want to focus on for the remaining two years,” he said. The Majority leader supported a pure parliamentary system when the BBI was collecting views from Kenyans because, he said, it would ensure equitable distribution of national resources irrespective of population. On Sunday reports in the media alleged that the ODM party wants a governance structure akin to the 2007-2103 Grand Coalition Government where the president and the prime minister enjoyed equal powers. The party promised to reach out to the masses through a series of public forums to make them understand and give their views on the Building Bridges Initiative report.