We must first appreciate that internal party democracy is very important for multiparty democracy and when you have growth in internal democratic ideals then you have a ripple effect on the national democratic space. That is one challenge that has held back the growth of our democracy. The news that the ruling party is finally going to have internal elections to choose, democratically, their leaders is obviously good news for multi-party politics and democracy. The party then has an opportunity to present the right representatives who will work on basic mandates like recruiting candidates for 2022. But we must appreciate that there are two occasions when we have parties weakened or strengthened at the time of internal party elections or primaries both of which are deliberately bungled to suit the interest of party bigwigs. It will be interesting to see Jubilee navigate this time bomb that has been a challenge to a number of political parties -  big and small. Jubilee has not had elected party officials; it has had a caretaker team which was basically cobbled together by President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto in 2016. The politician with a keen interest in the future of the party should be Ruto.  I am sure he will try to come off the blocks first so he can take control. His allies in the party have been extremely uncomfortable with party Secretary General Raphael Tuju, a Kenyatta henchman. They will try to go for key positions like the SG, treasurer, chairman and organising secretary. The position of party leader and the deputy will not be up for grabs unless Kenyatta announces he is no longer interested. That type of statement can trigger turmoil in the party. As it stands, Jubille looks to be under control of Ruto (50 per cent) just going by what the Tangatanga group is saying. Whether the party survives the looming elections only time will tell. It will be a good thing if they overcome the tremors of internal party democracy. Sometimes groups, in the party that feel unhappy, take the chance to look for other options. Whether the exit of a few or a large number weakens the party can only be seen after the event because our parties are weak in between elections. Their strength is better gauged close to an election because all the organs of the party come to life. Usually, splinters emerge and the strength of the splinter can only be gauged in the next elections. Mukwanja spoke to the Star 