 Kisumu Governor Anyang' Nyong’o has denied accusations that his administration was selective in assisting flood victims. Nyong'o, through county government spokesperson Aloyce Ager dismissed as baseless allegations by Kisumu Network of Grassroots Association on Monday that Dunga, Manyatta and Nyalenda slums flood victims had been denied assistance. Two people were on the same day swept away by floods in Nyamasaria after a heavy downpour. This brought to six the death toll in Kisumu in the past few days. Ager said the county in partnership with humanitarian organisations and local chiefs have mapped and established those affected. “We have ensured those displaced are in rescue centres. The multi-agency partners are monitoring those affected from the grassroots level,” he said. More than 2,500 families have been affected in the county. Ager said the special programme department had distributed food and non-food items to flood victims. The county has also set up medical camps in evacuation centres. County special director Ruth Odinga said the administration was desilting streams to stop water from overflowing in homes. “Nobody from the county disaster department has visited the family (of a man swept away on Monday). They only focus on sub-counties,” Apiyo claimed. The 40-year-old man was disabled and died in his house after it submerged. Apiyo maintained that those in the slums were neglected. “Dunga residents are massively affected. Houses have collapsed yet the county government has done nothing to support them.” He spoke as his association donated food to the victims.  He said the flood-related deaths could have been prevented if the county anticipated the floods and came up with mitigation measures. “What do they plan? What are the immediate mitigation measures, eg clearing the drainage systems for excess water to drain into Lake Victoria?" he asked. Apiyo called on the county government to come up with a long-term initiative to improve housing in the slums. He asked the administration to urgently find a solution to the problems of informal settlements where 75 per cent of the population lives.  