Kwale residents want a section of the Mining Act on the collection and royalties sharing to be revised for the community to fully benefit from mined resources. This comes after Coast Development Authority director Mshenga Rugha accused the National Treasury of reaping all the profits from the Australian mining firm Base Titanium without considering the communities affected by the mining activities. Represented by Nicolas Zani, the residents said they want 70 per cent of benefits to go to the community and the remaining 30 per cent of royalties to be shared between the national and county governments. The law on royalties sharing is vice versa. “We cannot be the ones directly affected by the mining and end up getting a smaller share of benefits. Let the national and the devolved government have 10 and 20 per cent respectively and the locals get the rest of the share,” he said. Zani spoke on Sunday in a Town Hall meeting at Dr Babla School in Ukunda. The residents decried 'bullying' from the national government saying it takes royalties and income taxes at a go without returning some benefits to the community. Zani said Base Titanium has been consistently paying taxes to the government but locals do not see its value because someone else is benefiting at their expense. “Base Titanium has been paying taxes for the past four years but that money is not reaching us,” he said. Rugha proposed that Parliament drafts a bill to set up a Royalties Trust Fund to help separate money from the consolidated accounts. He said the national and devolved governments should have their own accounts separate from the community's when it comes to the sharing of royalties. “The leaders should split up the amalgamated accounts and have money for the people and governments separately while sharing benefits,” Rugha said. The director said the move will help solve royalty-sharing conflict because the community would have access to their piece of cake directly rather than waiting for the national government’s long procedures for obtaining money. The government, Rugha said, is playing tricks on Kwale occupants by delaying the implementation of the regulations. It has been three years since the regulations were proposed with nothing to show yet there are other laws which get a quick confirmation, he said. “The Building Bridges Initiative came just recently and it was given the way forward. Why can’t the same government act on the policy meant to share these royalties?" Mining PS John Omenge said the government is keen to protect the welfare of its people and not deprive their rights. He admits there was a delay in formulating the royalty-sharing policy "but the efforts of executing it are ongoing". Omenge said by January, the policy will have been presented for public participation and ready to take effect. He assured the residents that no money gets out of the National Treasury without notifying Parliament. The PS, however, called for peace as the government works on addressing the royalty allotment dispute. Edited by R.Wamochie