A teacher who defiled his student has been sentenced to 15 years in jail. Simeon Opiyo, a Business and Geography teacher, was convicted by Kibera senior principal magistrate Boaz Ombewa after the prosecution proved the case against him. He lured the girl to his bedroom on grounds that she would get more textbooks in the room for study. Opiyo committed the offence on September 20 at Kibera Fort Jesus in Lang’ata, Nairobi. The victim testified that the accused person visited their home and found her picking vegetables. They had a small talk about classwork and he left for his home. The girl later followed him to his home and found him with a woman, so she left. "I found him with another lady in his house and I left. I told him to call me when he is free. After some time, he called that I go to check if there were some textbooks," she said. She again left for the house. On arrival, she was allowed in and Opiyo closed the main gate. No one else was in the compound. They went in and he locked the main door. "We were with him alone in the house and no one else was in the plot that day,” the girl said. Opiyo told her he had many textbooks in his bedroom and pleaded with her to help him pick them. "I was standing at the bedroom door when he suddenly grabbed me by the hands and pushed me to his bed and locked the bedroom door." During the ordeal, he also messed up her hair. "I had plaited my hair matuta style. He pulled my hijab, plucked my hair, pulled my skirt, forcibly removed my pant and defiled me,” the girl recounted. She informed her brother and parents. But Opiyo denied any wrongdoing, saying they only watched football with the complainant. He said the complainant's mother called him and moments later he was attacked by a mob, forcing him to flee. He was later arrested and arraigned. The victim's mother said her daughter was defiled and had difficulty walking. The investigating officer and a medic from the Nairobi Women's Hospital confirmed that the girl was defiled. Opiyo has 14 days to appeal.