Deputy President William Ruto has urged leaders from across the political divide to take a common stand on the implementation of the BBI report. Ruto on Sunday said any contrary opinions on the report are going to divide Kenyans. The DP said politicians should not employ politics of hatred and division on the matter because that can only lead to polarisation of the country. Ruto said those  calling for a referendum to stop using threats and blackmail and allow every Kenyan to voice their concerns because their opinions matters as well. “For once, let us find a way to implement the BBI report together. It is not necessary for us to be divided,” Ruto said. He added: "You cannot use a divisive process to unite Kenyans." The Deputy President spoke at Kimende in Lari, Kiambu County during the graduation ceremony of beneficiaries of Lari Constituency Development Fund short courses empowerment programme. He was accompanied by MPs Kimani Ichungwa (Kikuyu), Rigathi Gachagua (Mathira), Jane Kihara (Naivasha), Alice Wahome (Kandara), Gabriel Kago (Githunguri), Josphat Kabeabea (Tigania East), Jude Njomo (Kiambu), Kwenya Thuku (Kinango), Benjamin Washiali (Mumias East) and George Sunkuyia (Kajiado West). Ruto maintained Jubilee leaders have agreed to support the BBI report with the aim of ensuring the country remains united. “We have all agreed, for Kenya to remain united that the implementation of BBI report should involve all Kenyans,” he said. He said the Jubilee administration remains focused on transforming the country and uniting Kenyans irrespective of political and tribal persuasions. Ruto however urged Jubilee leaders not to allow to be misused by outsiders to split the party. “As Jubilee Party members, we are united and we should not allow outsiders to divide us for their selfish gains,” he said. A section of leaders from the Mt Kenya region on Saturday had a meeting and agreed that Parliament is the way to implement the Building Bridges Initiative as opposed to a referendum. They said many aspects contained in the BBI report can be  implemented in the Parliament because they touch on the law and not amendment to the Constitution. "Parliament is the sole body constitutionally mandated to pass laws. We commit ourselves to drive legal work in Parliament moving forward," part of the statement read by Embu senator Njeru Ndwiga read. The group said Kenyans are already over burdened and national resources should be spared from a national referendum. The legislators who accompanied DP Ruto in their remarks said those calling for a referendum had a hidden agenda. They said the most important thing for now is to create jobs for the youth and ensure Kenyans have money in their pockets. Githunguri MP Gabriel Kago said the BBI report is a representation of the views of the people and thus should not create an avenue for a costly referendum. “There is no need of taking back the BBI recommendations to the people because they already gave their views to the BBI committee,” he said. Kimani Ichungwa said the Jubilee Party would unanimously support recommendations in the BBI report. He said the Government would come up with the required policies to implement the report while Parliament would pass the necessary legislations. "We have read the BBI report and seen it is good. We are not part of that team that wrote the report but we have accepted it because it is good for the unity of the country,” Ichungwa said.