National cricket team lost by three wickets to Hong Kong as they concluded their campaign in the ICC World Cup Challenge League Division One at the Al Amerat Cricket Stadium in Muscat yesterday. Defending 213 to register their second win of the 2023 ICC Cricket World Cup qualification campaign, Kenya only picked seven wickets as Hong Kong ensured they finished second behind Uganda. Kenya got into the match looking for nothing but a win to join Steve Tikolo-coached Uganda as the top two sides in the event. But things proved different when Hong Kong bowlers backed by the batsmen eased past the Kenyans. Kenya, whose selection of the team received a lot of criticism, have now lost six of their nine matches in the tour and may pay for the mistakes in the second leg to be played in Uganda next year. Kinchit Shah and Aizaz Khan made the most of some poor fielding and inconsistent bowling from the Kenyan side to score half centuries that set up the platform for their third win of the event. The two put on a third wicket stand of 71 runs after Shem Obado and Emmanuel Bundi had tried to put brakes on their chase at 71 for 2 after 14 overs. Collins Obuya made it 142 for 3 after 28.2 overs with the dismissal of Shah on 52. This breakthrough somehow brought some belief in the Kenyan side as the Asian side was reduced to 196 for 7 in seven overs. However,  that is how far Kenya could go in their defence as the Asian side crossed the finish line with 50 balls in hand. Put in to bat, Kenya inning didn’t start in a way they would have wished as they lost openers Naman Patel and Irfan Karim for only 17 runs in eight overs. Rushab Patel and Dhiren Gondaria held the inning briefly with a third wicket stand of 33 runs before three quick wickets of the two and Rakep Patel saw Kenya slump to 66 for 5 after only 16.5 overs. However, Sachin Bhudia and Obuya held their nerves to put on a century stand of 108 that saw Kenya finish on a good total. Obuya hit four boundaries on his way to 63 off 90 balls while Bhudia faced 79 balls scoring 52 runs. After the two were dismissed in quick succession with the board on 209 and 28 balls to play, Ngoche scored an unbeaten 22 from 13 balls. Prior to this match, Hong Kong had lost to Uganda.