Residents have criticised the manner in which services are delivered in Kwale County offices. Speaking on Saturday in Ukunda, Transparency International Kenya Coast regional officer Mary Maneno said alienation of communities is one of the major obstacles to service delivery. She said the public normally acts as a watchdog in any government and their absence costs a lot. “The citizens regulate government actions because they are the immediate beneficiaries and malpractices of offices comes in when people are not involved in setting plans for projects,” she said. Maneno said, in regard to the complaints they have received, it seems the county administration denies citizens crucial information on accountability and utilization of public resources. She said this gives an opportunity for corrupt individuals to squander public funds. “If nobody is aware of the government plans, there is a high possibility that someone can decide to waste money and walk away unnoticed,” she said. According to Maneno, some locals had reported that the county sends text messages to specific individuals ordering them to attend public participation and excludes their neighbors. She said the entire Kwale government must be held responsible and individuals who promote dishonesty arrested. At the same time, Maneno faulted the community for encouraging corruption. She said many people use shortcuts and dubious methods while acquiring amenities in government facilities. The officer urged residents to be ambassadors of free corruption nation. Dzombo ward MCA Patrick Mangale had earlier said people have a tendency of seeking fare reimbursement, which leads to limiting the number of people who can attend public forums. Mangale advised the county officials to immediately stop the refunding fare. County security chief Martin Mwaro refuted the claims and said kwale government is at the forefront in curbing corruption. He said several persons have been taken to court while others have had their contracts terminated after being found practising the vice. (Edited by V. Graham)