Experienced international setter Janet Wanja has been ruled out of the Africa 2020 Olympic Games qualifiers set for January 3-10 in Cameroon. Malkia Strikers head coach Paul Bitok said Wanja had not reported to camp and will, therefore, not be part of the squad. Wanja was set to link up with the team on Sunday at their residential camp in Kasarani but was unable to, leading to the coach’s decision. Wanja has had a 15-year stint with the national team following her debut at the 2004 Athens Olympic Games. Bitok said: “Following our recent communication with Wanja, I would like to announce that the team will miss the services of our experienced and veteran setter due to personal commitments." "As a result, she will not be able to join the team for training and the upcoming Olympic qualifiers in Cameroon in January. The team and I are very thankful for Wanja’s services all through. Coupled with her experience, she is always very committed, smart and a natural leader!” In the absence of the former Mukumu Girls player, setters Jane Wacu — also immensely experienced and plying her trade in Seychelles — Joy Lusenaka of Kenya Prisons and young blood from Kenya Pipeline, Esther Mutinda are expected to step up. “Wanja remains one of the best and experienced setters Kenya has ever had. As a contingency, Wacu, Esther and Joy — who play in a similar position are poised to fill her shoes for this upcoming qualifiers. I have a lot of confidence that the three players and the rest of the team will put essential effort while Wanja is away” added Bitok. Wanja was part of the provisional squad of 20 players named last month by the Kenya Volleyball Federation (KVF). Bitok's lineup will be gunning for a ticket to feature at the Olympics for the third time after Sydney 2,000 and Athens 2,004. Meanwhile, Bitok has implored the federation to field age-group sides in both continental and world competitions to ease the transition of players to senior teams. “I urge KVF to register youth and junior players for future CAVB and FIVB competitions as this will allow for smooth transition and succession of senior players,” added the coach.