Nyeri county assembly Speaker John Kaguchia has called on politicians to lower the political heat felt in 2019 and start working together. The speaker said 2019 was filled with rhetoric and advised leaders to focus on reconciliation. “We ask our leaders to ensure we are not divided by the different factions such as Tangatanga and Kieleweke,” he said on Sunday. He was one of three leaders who delivered a donation of Sh1 million from Deputy President William Ruto, who already has donated Sh2 million to the church. Tangatanga is a group allied toRuto and dedicated to his ascension to the presidency in 2022 while Kieleweke is pro-President Uhuru Kenyatta and opposes early campaigns. Kaguchia called on leaders to focus on what is important to the people. He said if constitutional and law reform is going to be one of the main agenda items in 2020, it should not be tainted and mixed with 2022 politics. “As a county, we support constitutional amendments that are going to support one-man-one-vote and one-shilling approach in our economy,” he said. He said though Nyeri is small, "it has not been considered like some counties that have vast lands, not necessarily inhabited by human beings but get bigger chunks of the national cake". Majority leader James Kanyugo said he supports forthcoming Jubilee Party elections saying they will help rejuvenate the party and make it stronger and more vibrant. Chinga MCA Kiruga Thuku said Mt Kenya MCAs will soon meet to discuss the way forward on the BBI report. He said they were willing to assist Jubilee in its recruitment drive. The three leaders spoke at Kariki ACK church in Othaya when they delivered a donation of Sh1 million from DP Ruto. Ruto had promised the donation in September when he donated Sh1 million and delivered another Sh1 million from President Uhuru Kenyatta and promised to bring a further Sh1 million later. The money is meant to build a commercial building for the church. The proceeds are supposed to help rehabilitate young drug addicts. It should also cater for the bursary for about 500 learners in the ward. Edited by R.Wamochie