Nairobi County Assembly ODM MCAs have given Speaker Beatrice Elachi a seven day ultimatum to call for a special sitting. Led by Minority Leader David Mberia, the ward reps have written a second letter asking for a special sitting and have given Elachi until December 31 to call for a one. According to Mberia, the special sitting will to discuss the status of Nairobi County after the courts barred Governor Mike Sonko from office early this month. "As legislators we want to discuss affairs of our own county now that we have accounts frozen , conduct of the executive and the lacuna we have in terms of leaderships," he said on Tuesday. The first letter was done on December 11, where the Minority Leader had sought for an extension of the assembly sittings by at least three days. This was rejected as Speaker Elachi said it did not specify why the members were seeking for a special sitting and was "vague". "The special sitting request was not properly done because it was general. You cannot state you want to discuss the current crisis facing the county, it has to be specific on what exactly is ailing. I’m guided by the law that clearly says to gazette a special sitting you have to be very specific and gazette what to discuss,” Elachi explained. However, the MCAs have not given up and says the matter to be discussed is of urgency. "The sitting is very important because as legislators we need to think of how come next year Nairobi will be running .We must first discuss the issue at hand and if impeachment or any other solution is the way forward then we will resort to it," Mberia explained. The Karen MCA expressed concerns that due to pending bills and county accounts being frozen operations at City Hall might not run "as usual" next month. Elachi said as guided by the law she will call for a special sitting if the letter highlights string grounds and If the reasons are genuine. "I rejected the first letter and on my side, I advised the members on how to go about it. It has reached to my attention that they are me at to write a second letter today and once I receive it , will give the way forward," Elachi explained. The former Senator had adjourn the house on December 11 for the long recess until February 2020 and could not extend further as the house had already extended its calendar by a week. Elachi said she was still waiting for the Advisory Opinion of the Attorney General which will shed light and give guidance in such a scenario Nairobi is facing. Jubilee Party Secretary General Raphael Tuju also said the party had written to the AG and was waiting for the response.