The Nyeri county security committee has warned firms that do not take their work seriously that they will be blacklisted. County commissioner David Kipkemei said such companies may end up being a security threat due to carelessness. “We have observed with a lot of concerns that some security firms working in Nyeri are not serious about what they are doing. You go to supermarkets and you find that there is no frisking. They don’t care,” he said. He called on all security firms working in Nyeri to ensure their workers are well trained to do the right job. Those offering security in supermarkets or institutions frequented by many people should ensure everyone is thoroughly frisked before gaining entry, he said. The administrator said there have been cases of young people leaving the county for Somalia where they are radicalised. The security team, he added, was engaging parents and institutions to establish the number and names of those who may have left the county for Somalia to join the terror groups. Nyeri lies on a transport corridor from the Northern region connecting Nairobi, Isiolo, Marsabit, Moyale and Ethiopia. “So you will expect that this place is very vulnerable to terrorism attacks because of the placement and the road network that connects Nyeri with other parts of the country,” he said. He spoke during a two-day counter-terrorism workshop held at the Nyeri National Polytechnic on Wednesday. The meeting was meant to discuss how to implement the counter-terrorism action plan developed recently. The meeting was a follow-up to a similar meeting in June where the county developed a Rapid County Action Plan. The plan was prepared following orders from President Uhuru Kenyatta that every county should have a strategy to deal with extremism and counter-terrorism. Those present included members of the county security committee, county government officials, business community including the security firms, supermarkets, non-governmental organisations, elders and members of the clergy. “We have brought all these people so as to impart the skills on ways to protect this country from extreme violence,” he said. (edited by O. Owino)