Twenty active duty police officers were honoured on Wednesday for their exemplary work in combating crime. In some cases, they daringly throw themselves in harm's way to enforce law and order.  The ceremony in Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai's office in Nairobi was held in partnership with Manu Chanadaria Foundation and targeted officers whose work stood out. Geoffrey Mutunga, Richard Rotich, Eliud Ondanya, and Dennis Macharia were credited with meticulously searching for and resolving the disappearance of human rights activist Caroline Mwatha in February. The citation for their recognition read that they painstakingly followed leads in the case, tracing her steps to Njiru area in Nairobi, where it is alleged the mother of two had gone to procure an abortion. The leads landed the officers at KNH where Mwatha was said to have been referred after the procedure boomeranged, causing her excessive bleeding. Her body was then taken to City mortuary when information about the recovery filtered to the public. "The officers uncovered the circumstances of the death and the accused arraigned," the citations added. However, the abortion narrative was hugely contested, with allegations from human rights quarters that she could have been killed by operatives not happy with her work in documenting police excesses. The officers were also honoured for leading raids that resulted in the recovery of arms and ammunition. Two robbers were killed in the operation. "On September 9, they confronted people who were robbing members of the public at Baraka Ring road in Dandora Mowlem, recovering Jericho pistol, 27 rounds of ammunition and a motorcycle," the citation read. Daniel Sunkuli, a DCI officer attached to the Special Crime Prevention Unit, was awarded for rescuing a seven-year-old boy who was abducted by a house help. He traced him to Kawangware area. The house help had put the child in the custody of her daughter and demanded Sh7 million ransom before she could return the boy to their Muthaiga home. Sunkuli also participated in investigating and arresting suspects involved in the Sh72 million heist at a KCB bank ATM in Nairobi West. "He managed to arrest a suspect in the case, leading him to recover Sh3.2 million in the house of the suspect's grandmother in Machakos." Recce Squad officers Josephat Asumari, JohnBosco Ngotho, Erick Ouma, and Victor Omondi based in Ruiru were feted for bravely raiding a house of al Shabaab terrorist suspect in Likoni in September 2019, neutralising three and arresting four of them. The officers acted on intelligence that showed the terrorists were plotting an attack in the area. Police reports also described the suspects as lethal and that they had been terrorising people in Bamburi, Kwale, Kisauni and Mazeras since May. An assortment of weapons, including a G3 rifle, grenades, more than 1,600 bullets and bomb-making materials, were recovered. Also recovered were 68 air rifle pellets, nine balaclavas, military/police uniforms, military holsters & porches, rifle oil, six machetes and three knives. For his part, AP officer Richard Keino was recognised for bravely leading colleagues in repulsing 19 armed al Shabaab militants who had marooned a PSV vehicle in Lamu's Mpeketoni area. They rescued civilians. "Three officers were killed in the operation but he led the remaining team in overpowering the enemy, suppressing them before administering first aid to his injured colleagues," the citation read. Another AP officer, Alex Thaara, survived with two gunshot wounds after repulsing an unknown number of al Shabaab militants in Lamu on July 4, 2015. The terrorists had attacked their camp. He recovered an AK-47 rifle. The injuries to his legs left him with a limp. (Edited by F'Orieny)