Residents living around Mt  Mtelo in West Pokot county have expressed landslides fears after they spotted huge cracks on the mountain. The residents who reside on the slopes of the mountain have been forced to move from their homes and camp in various schools in the region. On Tuesday, landslides occurred on hills bordering the mountain but no deaths were reported. The landslides buried 13 homesteads rendering over 100 people homeless. Displaced residents are camping at Klaan, Krich and Ptoyo primary schools. Chekemos Chief Julius Long’oreng said that the region experienced heavy rains accompanied by lightning. Longo’reng said that many people have fled their homes and moved to safer places. “Since the incident in the highland areas where over 50 people lost lives, residents of this region are now cautious and they have moved to safer places after noticing cracks on the mountain,” he said. Chepnyal Catholic priest Justus Oyugi urged the government to maintain roads in the region to ease transport. “it difficult to reach those affected and offer them help since most roads are now impassable,” he said. Oyugi asked residents living near hills that have cracks to move to safer places to avoid accidents. “This region is expected to continue receiving heavy rains until next year. Let's be cautious and save lives,” he said. Kapenguria MP Samuel Moroto asked the government to put mitigation measures in place to prevent people from losing lives due to the effects of climate change. “It’s a shame to be losing people during both rainy and dry seasons. The government should come up with measures to help control such incidents,” he said. The MP asked the government spokesperson to choose his words carefully while addressing the nation concerning floods issue in the country. “He should know that he is addressing Kenyans who have lost their loved ones and not the military,” he said. Tullow Oil Company and Total Kenya have donated Sh10 million to help landslide victims. Speaking after receiving the cheque, Governor John Lonyangapuo asked residents to help each other. “Let’s donate what we have to help the affected. Let’s stop stalling and waiting for donors to come and help us,” he said. The governor asked residents to stop logging and make use of the rains to plant more trees.