Police in Nyeri have recovered goods worth about  Sh1.5 million believed to have been stolen and arrested five suspects. The items included public address systems, solar panels, laptops, gas cylinders, fridges, TV sets, motorbikes and other electronic goods. Nyeri county police boss Adiel Nyange said the goods were stolen from individuals, business premises, schools and a church in a spate of robberies in the county. Nyange said the suspects were arrested and the goods recovered following a tip from members of the public. He spoke on Saturday at Karatina Police station in Mathira, where the items are being kept. Police said the gang is believed to have been robbing people in Mathira East and West, Mukurwe-ini , Karatina town, Nyeri. At Mathira West they raided Icuga PCEA church, killed a night guard before stealing from the church. The county police boss said some members of the gang were arrested in Nyeri, Witeithie in Kiambu county where they hide stolen goods, Kayole and Umoja in Nairobi. These are places where the criminals hide and keep the stolen goods selling them one by one, he said. “We followed even those who buy these stolen items from the criminals and those who sell them. In the cells we have the receivers of the stolen goods and the person who is suspected to have killed that watchman in Mathira West,” he said. He said the recovered goods were equipment stolen from the church and schools which included a government-issued laptop. Some residents have already identified some of the items. “We are also waiting for the pastors from the church where some of these items were stolen to come and identify them,” Nyange said. He also appealed to people who may have lost items to criminals to visit Karatina Police station and identify their items. Police, he said, are compiling investigation files and recording statements from complainants before taking the suspects to court. The county police chief also added that they are closely following the movement and behavious of four dangerous criminals who have been in jail for the last 10 years but were released last week. He said two are from Othaya while the others are from Witemere slums in Nyeri town. “I believe they have been rehabilitated but if they try again to engage in crime, they won’t escape as we are monitoring them very closely,” he said. Geoffrey Kang’aru who identified his motorbike — a Shineray worth Sh112,000 which he had only used for one month — said the goons stole the bike and other shop items. He said the stolen items were transported using motorbikes. “I reported the matter to Karatina Police Station only to be summoned at the station later to identify the bike,” he said. 