 John Mutinda sped to his death in Likoni Channel last weekend after receiving a call from his dead father, according to his widow. Ruth Mueni told journalists that her husband had dreamt that his father called from the grave instructing him to meet him in Mombasa's central business district. The widow said her husband hurriedly left their rental home at Vanga estate around 4am after the alleged strange dream only to plunge into the ocean moments later. But Mutinda's family blamed his death on domestic violence. His mother, Musangi Mutinda, on Tuesday accused Mueni of subjecting her son to domestic abuse for years. She said her daughter-in-law was being economical with the truth and accused her of misrepresenting the circumstances of her son's death. The 46-year-old Mutinda was a clearing and forwarding agent. He will be buried at his Kyanika village home in Kitui on December 21. The mother said her son had been recovering from severe burns after his wife allegedly scalded him with water last month. Mueni pleaded with the media to leave her alone to mourn the father of her three children. She maintained that her husband hurriedly left their home after the strange dream only to plunge into the Indian Ocean moments later. Mutinda arrived at the Likoni Channel at 4.20am on Saturday from Kwale side headed to Mombasa island, according to the Kenya Ferry Services. He ignored the order to stop and sped past the ticketing booth and plunged into the ocean. His wife arrived at the scene after learning of the incident and broke down, the ferry management was quoted saying. The body was pulled out of the channel at 8.40am by the KFS and the Kenya Navy personnel. The vehicle was retrieved at noon. It had plunged six metres below the surface, KFS managing director Bakari Gowa said. As if to corroborate what the mother had said, his niece Carol Paul, said the family was convinced that Mutinda’s decision to die in the ocean was prompted by marital turmoils. “If only my uncle had a peaceful marriage, he would be alive today,” Carol mourned. She claimed the uncle had attempted to commit suicide before. “My uncle almost committed suicide over domestic disagreements but was rescued by a neighbour,” Carol said.      