The women's wing of the Kikuyu Council of Elders has endorsed the Building Bridges Initiative report, saying it will enhance peace in the country. Speaking at Kenol town in Murang’a county on Wednesday, they said the country has been torn apart by divisive politics for a long time, making life difficult for women. They spoke during a forum organised by the council to train them on the report. Their secretary general Sarah Wanjiku said the council has organised to have professionals well versed with the report to explain to them what it entails. "In turn, we will talk about it to people in our grassroots groups and even churches for people to understand,” Wanjiku said. She said women are the hardest hit by political conflicts and that they would support anything that improves harmony. She said the report will serve as a bridge that will take the country to an era of political calm and cohesion, enabling Kenyans to thrive in their activities. She said the handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga enabled Kenyans to invest in places they could not before. Wanjiku urged Kenyans to ensure they read the BBI report to understand the impact it will have on their lives. “Let us not make the mistake we made when we passed the constitution. Let us read and correct the document and ensure we pass something that is 100 per cent good,” she said. Wanjiku said the report should be passed through a referendum for Kenyans to decide whether they support it or not. Passing it through Parliament would sideline Kenyans from a process that will have a major impact on their lives, she said. Margaret Njenga from Molo, Nakuru county, said her family has suffered from political conflicts in the Rift Valley since 1992, and that they were eventually forced to relocate to towns to be safe. “The fights affected children’s education and our livelihoods. So many still live with disabilities acquired during the conflicts, while many others died from the trauma,” she said. She said it makes her bitter to see politicians making utterances that may spark violence, saying the BBI report will make such occurrences a thing of the past. Kiambu branch chairperson Margaret Igogo urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to restore Kazi Kwa Vijana, which also benefitted women who cooked for youths. She said women were empowered when the programme was in progress and sale of illicit brews had decreased. “We also want to meet the President in person to discuss matters of national interests,” she said. The council’s chairman Wachira Kiago on his part praised the women for their desire to learn about the report, which he said is being politicised. “Too much politics is not helpful but I'm happy that the report promotes peace and unity,” he said.