The government will release the Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education results next week. Marking of the papers ended this week, despite protests that engulfed the two-week exercise. The marking exercise started on November 28, a day after the last paper. It involved at least 26,977 markers and about 20 national schools in Nairobi and environs acted as marking centres. However, the exercise was partially characterised by protests from examiners who decried of poor pay and bad working conditions. The government pays the markers per each script they attend to. In Upper Hill Primary, Nairobi, and Machakos Girls where Biology Paper 1 and 2 were being marked, the examination council suspended marking for hours due to protests. Sources from the Education Ministry and examination council suggest that  results compilation is underway. Reports further indicate Education CS George Magoha could release the results between December 20 and December 23. As a tradition, the CS first briefs the president of the results before making them public. Magoha had earlier indicated the results would be released before Christmas. "Once again we mark the end of the KCSE exams but we begin another important process which is the marking exercise, which we hope to wind up before the Christmas celebration," Magoha said at Kenya High School at the end of the KCSE exams. The examinations, which started on November 4, ended on November 27 with 21 cases of exam malpractices being reported. Prof Magoha also said 90 phones were confiscated from candidates. He disclosed that 300 schools had been put under watch following reports of planned cheating. He identified Nairobi, Kisii, Migori, Homa Bay, Wajir and Garissa as some of the counties that recorded cases of examination irregularities. This year, 699,745 candidates sat the KCSE exam. Police arrested 11 people in Kisii for allegedly impersonating candidates while some candidates were arrested in Garissa at a private examination centre for accessing examination materials before time. In Nakuru, Eastmore Girls High School was found to have done a chemistry practical paper in their mock exams similar to this year’s KCSE paper, raising concerns.