Lawmakers from across the political divide on Thursday turned the heat on Deputy President William Ruto asking him to resign and stop attacking Interior CS Fred Matiang'i and PS Karanja Kibicho. “These are very loaded and desperate warnings which cannot just be wished away,” the MPs said in a statement read by Homa Bay’s Gladys Wanga. The leaders said the DP was not being sincere by launching a public attack on the two leaders yet he has powers to summon them and address his concerns. MPs present were Ngunjiri Wambugu (Nyeri Town), Memusi Kanchory (Kajiado North), Rosa Buyu (Kisumu), Okong’o Omogeni (Nyamira), Momanyi Jerusha (Nyamira), Anthony Oluoch (Mathare) and Simba Arati (Dagoretti North). They were joined by Richard Onyonka (Kitutu Chache South), Samuel Arama (Nakuru West), Janet Ong'era (Kisii), Fatuma Gedi (Wajir), Peris Tobiko (Kajiado East), Ken Chonga (Kilifi South) and Milly Odhiambo (Suba North). “We are not surprised that he is on the tangent again ranting and cursing with the characteristic anger and bitterness at people whom he believes owe him the presidency,” the statement read. The DP is furious not because of the BBI or the clamour for the presidency but because the taps of corruption have run dry and the fake projects he used to launch are no longer available, they said. They challenged the DP to face his boss President Uhuru Kenyatta and not public servants, further criticising him for always reminding everyone that he is the second in command. “His obsession with civil servants who are his juniors underlines the deep insecurity painting him as one not sure of himself, worth and future,” the lawmakers said. “He has two options; face the President or chart a new career path. The problem is his vile character which makes him his own worst enemy and must face his demons.” They asked the DP to recognise that the problem is not in the civil servants he is attacking ‘but his vile character and politics of entitlement, division and anger at a time the nation is focused on reconciliation’. Onyonka said, “We want to know the meaning of remarks that Matiang’i should be reminded of what happened to Nkaissery and Saitoti.” “Ruto has a right to seek the presidency but he has to mind his language. We don't want to return to violence. We won't allow efforts to profile us. Respect us as well,” the lawmaker said. Wambugu asserted that the statements by Ruto and his allies were irresponsible. “I have not seen a complaint brought to us regarding to the two leaders. We will not be carried away by the noise. Let Ruto step down. “Irresponsible statements will be followed by incitement leading to fights. Why do they want to take us to a place of hate? Uhuru and Raila have made peace, who are you fighting for?” the Nyeri Town MP asked. He said they will file formal complaints against those implicated in the utterances bordering on death. Chonga said it beat logic that the Tangatanga team wants to divert Kenyans’ attention from the BBI yet they opposed the report before it was unveiled. “They did not like it even before reading. He wants people to forget that he campaigned against the report,” the lawmaker said. Edited by R.Wamochie