The Kenya of today is like a river that flows in the source of greatness. This was the message of a proud President Uhuru Kenyatta as he addressed the nation as Kenya marked its 56th Jamhuri Day celebrations at the Nyayo National Stadium. Uhuru said at the dawn of our republic, Kenyans inherited a country stripped bare by a colonising-power whose only intention was to extract. "We inherited a country beset by poverty, illiteracy, poor health and chronic under-investment in infrastructure and social amenities. We were divided along ethnic and religious differences," he said. With a then population of only about 8.9 million, he said the country was a colonial relic, whose identifying marks were inequality, injustice, poverty, exploitation and oppression. "Fifty-six years later, we can look back with pride at the important milestones we have achieved and the tremendous steps we have taken and are taking to right the course of the river." He said as a  way of returning the river to its course, my administration is vigorously implementing the Kenya Economic Blue Print - Vision 2030, whose current phase – the Third Medium Term Plan, is prioritised in the Big Four Agenda. This agenda focuses on: “A decent roof over many more heads at an affordable cost; affordable healthcare for all; food and nutrition security for all Kenyans, job creation and economic growth through manufacturing." He said the Big Four Agenda is crafted to accelerate the realisation of the overriding objective of the Vision 2030. This is meant to transform Kenya into a newly industrialising, middle-income country providing a higher quality of life to all its citizens by 2030 – in a clean and secure environment. His sentiments were echoed by Deputy President William Ruto who was also in attendance. Ruto said the Big Four Agenda is the largest transformation in our history saying that the project would give food to every Kenyan and give employment to millions of youth. He said that through accelerating the Big Four, millions of youths will get employed. "I am confident that accelerating in the big four we will ensure meals. Through manufacturing, agro-farming and housing programs millions of young people will get jobs," he said. This was the first time the celebrations are being held at the newly refurbished Nyayo Stadium. Others in attendance were former Prime Minister Raila Odinga, National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi, Chief Justice David Maraga and Senate Majority Leader Kipchumba Murkomen among others. Barbados Prime Minister Mia Amor Mottley was the special guest at the fete. The event featured military parades by the three divisions of the Kenya Defence Forces – the Army, Navy and Air Force.