AFC Leopards and KCB battled to a tame goalless draw in a Kenyan Premier League match played at the Afraha Stadium in Nakuru yesterday. The result saw both sides stagnate in their positions with KCB still in fifth but with 22 points while Ingwe remained 8th in the standings—four points adrift of their Jamhuri Day opponents. The bankers still with assistant coach Godfrey Oduor in charge in the absence of head coach Zedekiah Otieno, who is with Harambee Stars at the Cecafa Senior Challenge Cup in Uganda failed to live up to their recent form of two successive wins. The bankers scored ten goals in their last two matches—beating Kariobangi Sharks (5-2) and Posta Rangers(5-1). Enock Agwanda, scorer of a hat-trick in their win over the Mailmen was a threat early on against Leopards. Defenders Robinson Kamura and Clyde Senaji, however, ensured his efforts came to naught. Both keepers, Allan Owiny of KCB and Benjamin Ochan of Leopards remained largely untroubled throughout the tepid encounter. Ochan, however, had to be alert to make sure a long throw from Agwanda did not reach Brian Ochieng who was hovering intently around his box. With the game looking destined to end in a stalemate, Leopards coach Andre Casa Mbungo sent in their leading scorer John Makwata for Hansel Ochieng while Stephen Warruru was introduced in place of Simon Munala. The experienced duo, who are one time teammates at Ulinzi Stars, could however, not muster the winner for their sides come the full time whistle. Both sides are back in action on Sunday with difficult matches at the Kenyatta Stadium in Machakos. Leopards will be taking on top of the table Tusker in the late kick off match which will be preceded by the bankers clash against Wazito. Meanwhile, Kisumu All Stars defender Patrick Ochieng is ready to heap more misery on beleaguered Bandari when the two teams meet at the Moi Stadium, Kisumu tomorrow. The Dockers have endured a wretched run since being knocked out of the Caf Continental Cup. Despite beating Wazito 4-1 a week ago,they returned to their losing habit being defeated 1-0 by Kakamega Homeboyz. All Stars too suffered a fourth loss in five matches on Tuesday at the hands of Sofapaka.