  Siaya Senator James Orengo told off former US Secretary of State John Kerry for refusing to hear Nasa concerns over the rigging of the 2017 General Election. In his biography, Soaring above the Storms of Passion, Amani National Congress party leader Musalia Mudavadi says Kerry’s hardline stance during a meeting between Nasa and a group of election observers a day after the August 8, 2017 presidential election angered Orengo. “He did not want to listen to our queries. He was impatient and dismissive in the extreme – almost to the point of anger, leading Orengo to have a little tiff with him,” Mudavadi recounts. Kerry was the head of a group of observers from the Carter Centre that were monitoring the voting process. The meeting held at the Crowne Plaza in Nairobi had been convened so that Nasa could table evidence that the election had been rigged through hacking. Mudavadi, who was Nasa's chief campaign strategist said other international observers at the meeting were calmer and more accommodative than Kerry. “The rest maintained a certain level of understanding. They said they were not the final judges and that if we were convinced that the election had irregularities it would be prudent to go to the Supreme Court to challenge the outcome,” Mudavadi says. Various international observers had largely given the elections a clean bill of health citing inclusivity, credibility and fairness. The observers were from different agencies including the European Union, East Africa Community, Carter Centre, African Union and the Commonwealth. Nasa rejected the preliminary results, which indicated that Jubilee Party’s Uhuru Kenyatta was leading by 54 per cent of the votes cast to Raila Odinga stood at 44 per cent. Mudavadi says the sanitisation of the election by the observers was suspicious. “We wondered why the observers were quick to rubberstamp a sham election even before the owners declared the outcome,” he says. The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission would thereafter declare President Kenyatta the winner – a decision later reversed by the Supreme Court on September 1, 2017 after Nasa challenged Uhuru's win. During campaigns, Nasa had promised it would not go to the court in case the elections were not free, fair or credible. However, Mudavadi says the proclamation was a red herring that threw Jubilee Party off balance when the opposition party decided to file the petition at the Supreme Court. “The general mood around Jubilee circles was that we were not going to petition because we had said so during the campaign,” the former deputy prime minister recalls.  edited by p. obuya