There were several investment opportunities in Wajir for investors to explore, Governor Mohamed Abdi has said. Abdi said that untapped investment potential in livestock, minerals and energy should prompt investors to put their money in the county. “The county has abundant resources including solar and wind energy, limestone, livestock, gum and resins. It also has skilled and unskilled human capital crucial for business development,” he said. The governor spoke in Nairobi on Sunday when he attended the Kenya Diaspora Home Coming Conference on Investment Opportunities in North and Northeastern Counties. The conference’s aim was to explore the economic potential of the diaspora community and how they can contribute to the development of the country. “We appreciate and recognise the immense value and contribution made by the diaspora community to the well-being of Kenyans through remittances, investments, employment opportunities and expertise,” Abdi said. He said the county government was obliged to provide an enabling investment environment for the those interested in doing business there. “We have adequate land and investment climate for doing business. We shall work with the Kenya Diaspora Alliance to develop a database of all our professionals in the diaspora,” he said. The county chief said they were looking forward to partnering with all potential business and development entities for socio-economic development of residents. “It is my sincere hope that you will consider investing in Wajir county as well as Kenya as a whole,” he said. Abdi said investments in livestock and livestock products will maximise investor returns and improve the quality of life of the people. Livestock population in the county is estimated to be about 5 million consisting of camels, cows, goats, sheep and donkeys. The governor said livestock breeds in Wajir have been rated as the best quality in the region as is the quality gums and resins in the county. Recently, the World Bank partnered with the government to invest about $1.4 billion to improve the socio-economic development of the northern region. Six major projects are to be planned in the partnership namely North Eastern Transport Corridor improvement to bitumen standards of roads from Isiolo, Meru, Garissa, Wajir to Mandera counties.  The distance covered is 740 kilometres.