A section of business owners from Emali town in Makueni county have faulted some local leaders and security personnel for allegedly protecting drug peddlers. They said unidentified security personnel worked with drug dealers  to traffic drugs in several towns along the Mombasa-Nairobi highway. The business community accused some local leaders of not playing their role in sensitizing the public but instead protecting the drug dealers in Kibwezi subcounty. They alleged the drugs are being transported from neighbouring Tanzania. Speaking during a community forum, Julius Kausini, chairman of the Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry Kibwezi, said a group of youths have been threatening business owners by demanding protection fee. Kasuni urged residents to unite in curbing trafficking and consumption of bhang, a substance said to be in high demand in Emali and neighbouring towns along the busy highway. He said parents had a duty to sensitise their children on the consequences of drugs and substance abuse. "Our businesses are not safe as long as drugs are being sold in this place. We need to focus on the future and settle this problem to make our people secure,” he said. “Some cartels have been controlling the community to the extent of confronting the police a few months ago. We must lay aside all the differences and come together to settle these problems by confronting the drug dealers.” Nacada officer Alex Njeru said drugs and substance abuse had led to a lot of insecurity in the area. He appealed to the national and the Makueni county governments to arrest all suspects of drug trafficking. The illegal groupings are said to be formed of street children who have been mugging and terrorising the community. Njeru said school children are the most affected drug abuse. "This problem must be addressed as soon as possible because some of the local leaders are not doing much to address the situation. They are only talking and even some have been collaborating with drug peddlers," he said. Makueni county commissioner Maalim Muhamed said the county government will collaborate with the children's office to rehabilitate street children who were turning into violent criminals. He said issue of street children threatening people had been raised in their previous security meetings. Speaking to the Star on phone, Maalim said he had directed Nzaui deputy county commissioner and the security personnel to take quick action in response to the business owners' claims. "I have received claims of insecurity in Emali town and have directed the Nzaui deputy county commissioner as the man in charge of the subcounty intelligence security team to sit and discuss the drug trafficking issue and come up with a suitable solution," Maalim said. He assured the residents of a stern action to ensure drug trafficking was wiped out in the entire Makueni county. The commissioner said drug trafficking had increased over recent months after the removal of roadblocks along the Mombasa highway. He said a security meeting would be held for Kajiado and Makueni counties to discuss ways to eliminate the menace.