Lugari MP Ayub Savula has urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to convene a governors’ meeting to address the cash crunch faced by counties. Savula said on Wednesday the current situation in counties was a real threat to devolution as employees had not been paid salaries and services have been disrupted and could be paralysed. “I'm begging the president to intervene and help resolve the differences between counties and the National Treasury. Residents suffer when operations break down in counties,” he said. Savula criticised the Treasury’s blacklisting of 35 counties saying the move was hurting devolution. The Treasury said it will withhold the funds meant for the counties after they failed to clear their pending bills. Savula said pending bills should not be used as an excuse to block funding. He said only a fraction of bills had been audited. Savula said every county has its unique challenges and contractors in some counties have sued and payments cannot be made until the cases are concluded. The lawmaker spoke at the burial of Alice Vakhoya in Bukhakunga village, Malava subcounty. In June, Uhuru ordered the counties and state agencies to settle all pending bills by November 30. The Council of Governors has petitioned the High Court to compel the Treasury to disburse funds to the affected counties, terming the withholding illegal. The matter is to be heard on Friday. On Wednesday, CoG chairman Wycliffe Oparanya (Kakamega) said counties are unable to pay pending bills because they don’t have money. On the Building Bridges Initiative report, Savula said elected leaders from Western will meet soon to interrogate it and take a common stand. He, however, faulted the recommendation requiring the person to be named a prime minister to be an MP. “You cannot expect Raila Odinga, Uhuru Kenyatta, Musalia Mudavadi, Moses Wetang’ula and DP William Ruto to go back and run for MP seats if they are to be named PM,” he said. He said executive power should be shared between a president and a PM to effectively decentralise power.