The Kenya Young Members of County Assembly Association plans to kick start conversation on the Building Bridges Initiative in Nairobi. The association through partnership with the Nairobi County Assembly and various Non-Governmental Organizations is calling upon young people join and participate in affairs which have great impact in their lives KYMCA chairperson June Ndegwa on Tuesday said that the public participation for the BBI in Nairobi would be championed by youths. "Through some of our partners, several copies of the BBI report will be printed since not everyone can access it on line and together with youths we will go across all 17 sub counties in Nairobi for the public participation,” she said The meeting which was held at the Nairobi County Assembly and was officially opened by Assembly Speaker Beatrice Elachi and was attended by at least 40 NGOs. Young Professionals for Development, The National Council of NGOs, Commonwealth Youth Peace Ambassadors Network, Africa Youth Empowerment Atelier, Organization of African Youth . Accountability Advocates Kenya,PAWA 2 among other NGOs attended the function Establishment of Youth Office In promoting sustainable peace through National Youth Policy, the association is requesting for the establishment of a Youth office. "Being at the centre, As Nairobi Assembly we saw fit that we provide a platform where youths can air out their issues. What I can be able is a platform where the youths can come and have a platform,” Ndegwa said. A motion is expected to be moved in the house next year where the assembly will appeal the executive to establish such an office at City Hall. The plan is to set up an office in the executive wing where officers will be deployed to handle issues related with youth. Currently the youth is under the Education , Youth and Social Services department at the County Government of Nairobi. Due to the bulk work especially in the education department, the youth affairs might have been sidelined . The expected outcome is that various youths will be trained on various programmes which the NGOs and the office act as a bridge, linking  the youth with various agencies that offers employment. Through the goodwill of various NGOs , fundings for various programmes will be channeled.