xPodd Company Limited, a property-technology(ProTech) focused real estate firm has embarked on a number of investments to improve services and safety in the real estate market space. The company has collaborated with Facebook and Google to improve online solutions in the country’s real estate sector, with a key focus on training property finders and educating property owners. Finders locate property before sharing details which are then used by the company to link seekers and property owners online. Facebook sponsored the company’s last training in Nairobi held on December 8, while Google is expected to collaborate with the company early next year. “The trainings are aimed at equipping our finders with the tools they need in the digital sphere. Google will be training our finders on the fourth Sunday of January,” said Nekoye Inzaule-xPodd chief operations officer. xPodd’s online platform enables the public, businesses and real estate developers connect on one platform where they can identify, acquire , let or rent property. “In our continued quest of leveraging technology to bridge digital and human needs, in 2020 in support of the Presidents goal of providing affordable housing, we shall launch a subscription service whereby instead of people buying or renting a place, we find them the space they need when they need it,” she Inzaula noted. The company is keen to eliminate middle men in the real estate business where some agents have been duping unsuspecting property seekers and landlords. “Property seekers save money by getting discounted rent and get better deals since the finder is not demanding commissions from the landlord. You also only see what is available unlike in websites where on the ground, you are shown different things,” chairman Alastair Campbell said. With more than five decades of insights and expertise, the company is at the intersection of innovation, technology and real estate operations, targeting mainly urban areas where hundreds of property seekers and owners remain vulnerable to conmen. It has operations in Nairobi, Mombasa, Nakuru, Eldoret, Kisumu and Kakamega, offering solutions for both commercial and residential properties.