A section of Nairobi MCAs has downplayed fear of a crisis in the county following the courts ruling that barred Governor Mike Sonko from accessing his office. Led by Majority Leader Charles Thuo, the MCAs on Monday maintained that there is no crisis in Nairobi and operations are going as normal. The MCAs also dared their counterparts planning on the impeachment motion against Governor Sonko to bring it on the table and follow the right procedure. " The issue of impeachment is neither here or there. The law is very clear on impeachment. No one has stopped anyone from the process and If they think they have numbers they should bring and we shall deal with it like any other motion," Thuo said. Backing his sentiments, Majority Whip June Ndegwa said that the pro-impeachment MCAs should reach out to the rest of the members to clarify their agenda before bringing it in the house. "The assembly is a house of procedures and what is currently happening affects all of us. Our counterparts should come in the open, ask the whole house to come together and let us understand why they want to impeach the governor," she said. The Majority Leader further rubbished claims that the impeachment will save Nairobi from being dissolved arguing that there was no such plan from the President. "Who said that Nairobi as a county will be dissolved? It is not something that is done by clicking a finger, it needs time and there is nothing of the sort," he said. Impeachment plans have been all the talk in the city since the court last Wednesday barred Sonko from accessing his office, without guards, so as not to tamper with evidence or intimidate junior staff. The new leaders who have been preaching ‘peace’ seem to be reading from different scripts. On one side is Jubilee’s leadership and Speaker Elachi; on the other are ODM lawmakers, former Jubilee leadership together with allied MCAs. Impeachment plans still on On the other side, The pro-impeachment MCAs have maintained that impeachment plans are still on as planned. Embakasi MCA Michael Ogada said that he is still collecting signatures to reach the required threshold. "We will follow all the procedures necessary since we are interested in impeaching the Governor," he said. He also stated that they are still pushing for a special sitting where the members will discuss the status of the county. Ogada further said that the Speaker is supposed to call for a special sitting if the required threshold has been met. "The law is very there and If we make the threshold of requesting for a special sitting, the Speaker has no choice but to also follow the law. What we won't allow is someone becoming arrogant and appear as If you want to control members and that is where the speaker can get into trouble with members," Ogada said. Minority Chief Whip Peter Imwatok had earlier said that the legislators cannot be part of Sonko’s woes and the crisis at Nairobi should be addressed by the house where many lawmakers have pledged to impeach him. Attorney General's advisory Speaker Beatrice Elachi has maintained that they are waiting for an advisory on the issue from the Attorney General. Jubilee Party Secretary-General Raphel Tuju also said that the party sought to seek guidance from the AG. According to Tuju, the office of the Attorney General and the courts are in existence for such scenarios that Nairobi is facing. "As a party, we have sought the opinion of the Attorney General and once he gives the advice as allowed by the law we shall follow that. It would have been a crisis if we lacked the courts or Attorney General and at that point, we would say that Nairobi is headless," Tuju told the Star on Sunday evening. "But we have the constitutional courts and the senate as well thus we have all avenues we can use to sort out the issue of Nairobi.That is the good thing of having a country like Kenya."