The NCPB has partially opened its depots but only to allow farmers to use drying facilities and store their maize at a fee. The farmers will pay for the drying facilities at a cost to be determined depending on the moisture content. The storage will cost the farmers Sh17 per 90kg bag monthly. Due to the ongoing heavy rains, hundreds of farmers are using the drying facilities at the NCPB depots in Eldoret, Moi’s Bridge and Kitale. “We highly welcome the opening of the depots to help farmers dry and store maize, but this is not enough because the government is yet to make clear its plans to buy and store maize, which many farmers have already harvested,” Moiben MP Sila Tiren said. Tiren, along with Kenya Farmers Association (KFA) director Kipkorir Menjo, were among farmer’s representatives who visited the NCPB depot in Eldoret to discuss with the management on issues affecting maize, milk and wheat farmers in the region. The farmers have demanded a meeting between them and Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri and CEO of the NCPB to discuss the challenges in the sector. Sources told the Star that differences between the NCPB and the Strategic Grains Reserves (SGR) board, chaired by Noah Wekesa, had led to delays in the opening of the NCPB depots for maize purchase. The board has been buying and selling maize on behalf of the SGR, but it has not been paid its agency fees amounting to more than Sh3 billion. The board has been facing financial challenges leading to inability to pay its employees. Last week, Wekesa said they were discussing plans to open up the depots, although the SGR is yet to receive Sh5 billion required to buy four million bags of maize from farmers. “Once we are through with the plans we have, we will open up the depots for maize purchase,” he said. At the moment maize prices have stabilised at an average of Sh2,800 per bag and  Wekesa said the market situation is still favourable to farmers.  The NCPB has sold out more than two million bags of maize and needs to replenish its strategic reserves. There are fears the country could face a major shortage of maize by April next year and farmers want the government to buy their grain at better prices of not less than Sh3,200 per 90kg bag. “We urge the government not to wait for a crisis so that they rely on imports. Let them buy maize from farmers at a good price so that next year we can have the same farmers able to produce more,” Menjo said. There are reports that some traders and politicians have imported maize and stored it in a neighbouring country waiting to flood the markets once the government allows imports. 