 The private sector on Wednesday pledged to support President Uhuru Kenyatta's directive that 30 per cent of tenders be awarded to youth and special groups to boost growth of small and medium enterprises. During a ceremony at KICC on Wednesday to award those who excelled in SMEs,  the National Chamber of Commerce and Industry president Richard Ngatia said the private sector was ready to support the implementation of the policy to create more jobs and startups for the youth and women. Ngati said the policy was the surest way to reduce high rate of unemployment among young people. He said population was growing and that innovative ways must be created to boost business for the youth. "We must now focus on the youth and see how we create jobs and ensure women inclusion in business. The chamber will make sure the 30 per cent of all government and county government tenders are awarded to special groups as per the directive by the President.” Ngatia said. He was speaking during a ceremony to award those who have excelled in SMEs at the Kenyatta International Conference Centre in Nairobi. Industrialisation Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya said SMEs account for about 80 per cent of all enterprises and employ two-thirds of the population. He challenged the private sector to be enterprise-centric and not grant focused. “May I start by acknowledging the transformation that the chamber leadership has achieved in a short duration they have been in office. The private sector is a major driver of our economy," Munya said. "President Uhuru Kenyatta is very committed to making SMEs thrive. We have seen many business legal reforms, the President has also directed us to ensure the issue of pending bills is fully addressed because that has been a major drawback affecting businesses at both national and county level.” Munya said his ministry was keen on having a comprehensive review of policy interventions to ensure SMEs and multinationals both operate at optimal conditions. The CS said Kenya has attracted Foreign Direct Investments worth Sh300 billion.  edited by p. obuya