The Supreme Council of Kenyan Muslims has condemned Garissa religious leaders who rejected the organisation's position on the Building Bridges Initiative report. Supkem officials led by acting national chairman Hassan Ole Naado on Wednesday picked holes in the team's report, saying its proposals had huge gaps. But addressing the press in Garissa, Muslim elders led by Kenya Livestock Marketing Council chairman Dubat Amey said the task force is best placed to steer the BBI debate to the next level. Dubat who read the statement on behalf of his colleagues said Supkem was not speaking on behalf of all Muslims and that their views were personal. The Garisa clerics said having a new team as suggested by Supkem would be counterproductive as it would amount to starting the process afresh. On Friday, in a statement sent to newsrooms and signed by Naado, Supkem youth leader, coast regional coordinator and other officials, they chided the Garissa leaders for misrepresenting facts. “Firstly; why direct their attack on an individual while the press statement was views of various organisations namely Supkem, Namlef, Jamia Mosque, Nairobi and CIPK?” the statement read. The Supkem leaders said all Muslims were also given a chance as other Kenyans to give their views on the BBI report as this is their constitutional right. They wondered what the problem with their national chairman giving his views as an umbrella body of all Muslims faith-based organisations was. “Supkem organising secretary Abdullahi Salat comes from Garissa and he also gave his statement against the Hon. Raila Odinga and President Uhuru Kenyatta on the BBI report but no comment was made against his statement, is this racism or tribalism? or does it mean that there are those who are special than others?” the statement read. The extension of the BBI task force team's tenure has elicited mixed reactions among leaders, especially the political class and clerics. While some have supported the decision, others have called for the inclusion of law experts and the youth to ensure a comprehensive output. On Monday ACK Archbishop Jackson ole Sapit expressed his reservations on the extension and called for fresh minds devoid of political affiliation to steer the report. He said the President should have listened to Kenyans and included the youth who have fresh minds and are the future of Kenya, but not the handshake team. 