Security personnel will continue to guard the Maasai Mau Forest to keep off illegal herders, the Kenya Forest Service has said. KFS has planted millions of tree seedlings in a reforestation drive that would be destroyed if livestock are allowed in. “By end of last week, approximately 5.9 million trees had been planted,” KFS Chief Conservator of Forests Julius Kamau said on Tuesday. He added that livestock grazing poses the biggest challenge to the forest reclamation efforts. “We will ensure that livestock will not be allowed to graze inside the forest,” Kamau said. He was speaking after the opening of the Sh46 million Friends of Karura offices in Karura Forest. Kamau, who was accompanied by KFS board chairman Peter Kinyua, said KFS aims to restore 1,235 acres of the forest. The restoration of Maasai Mau Forest gained momentum on November 1, after illegal settlers moved out. The 60-day window for people to voluntarily move out lapsed on October 30. The government launched phase I of the operations to recover the forest in July-August last year. Some 11,000 acres were recovered then. In the second phase, about 22,000 acres have been reclaimed. The government plans to increase forest cover from 7.2 per cent to 10 per cent by 2022. On November 1.2 million seedlings were planted manually while four million seeds were planted using a light aircraft. Seeds of 13 species that had been selected for aerial seeding were planted. They were African redwood, African satinwood, black ironwood, cape chestnut, forest dombeya, mama mutere, Meru oak, moringa, mukinduri, Nile tulip, parasol tree, pencil cedar and podo. Some 1,981kg of seeds were broadcasted in the forest. This was estimated to have included approximately 60 million individual seeds, which will yield an estimated 30 million seedlings at a conservative germination rate of 50 per cent. Kamau said the tree seedlings are thriving thanks to the short rains. He said KFS will continue to engage the private sector and NGOs to adopt sections of the forest. During the tree-planting drive, Rift Valley regional commissioner George Natembeya told those who will need to go into the forest to harvest crops to seek the local chief's permission. He said this will curtail illegal activities. The Mau Forest Complex is the most important water tower in Kenya and supports millions of livelihoods nationally, regionally and internationally. It is a major catchment for 12 major rivers—Ewaso-Ng’iro, Sondu, Mara, Makalia, Molo, Mumberes, Naishi, Nderit, Njoro, Nyando, Nzoia and Yala. The rivers feed major lakes in Kenya, including Baringo, Nakuru and Turkana, as well as two transboundary lakes—Natron and Victoria. The Mau complex comprises 22 forest blocks (Annex 1), stretching across six counties—Baringo, Bomet, Kericho, Nakuru, Narok and Uasin Gishu. It is the lifeline of the Mara-Serengeti ecosystem, a major transboundary tourist attraction that supports millions of livelihoods and is a Unesco World Heritage site. The catchment and its ecosystem support tourism, agriculture, pastoralism, biodiversity and hydroelectric generation. The Maasai Mau Forest is one of the forest blocks in the complex and is registered as a trust land under the Trust Land Act. It covers 46,278ha (114,356 acres). The Maasai Mau is currently the most threatened forest block in the complex, particularly from human-induced pressure. Priority areas for conservation in order include Olokurto, SierraLeone in Narok South, a few kilometres from the Amala River, Kosia, Nkoben and Nkareta. The Kenya Water Towers Agency in its report recommended that the areas recovered by security teams need to be continuously protected against illegal settlers. The agency also recommended the rehabilitation and restoration of the degraded areas to realise the forest's full potential as a functional ecosystem. "The completion of the alignment of the Maasai Mau boundary in areas of Olkurto needs to be finalised," the agency said. It also called for the strengthening of the Joint Enforcement Unit operations through the provision of adequate officers and budget. Other recommendations included sensitisation and involving local communities and other stakeholders in the forest conservation, protection and recovery process. Further, the agency called for the revocation of title deeds issued for the forest land. It called for the fencing off of all recovered areas and the initiation of community livelihood activities for the people living around the water tower. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya