They say a wedding day is a girl's day and women tend to go all out to make it memorable. In as much as the day is about the bride, there's the bridal party that plays a big role in the wedding. A bride would usually want to to have her sisters, cousins and friends in her line up, but the reality is only a few can be bridesmaids. A huge bridal party is too much work. Brides are usually overwhelmed with emotions during planning and without knowing it, they find themselves either pushing people away or making their loved ones feel stressed. Brides and bridesmaids go the extra mile to get the perfect dresses, hair, makeup, jewellery and shoes. Men on the other hand just need a good suit, shoes and a clean cut. Here is a list of some of the issues bridesmaids need to deal with: 1. Stress Everyone experiences stress when planning a wedding and if not careful, she might knock heads with almost everyone because stress make one angry. Brides can get carried away and end up not considering people's feelings. This tends to stress the bridesmaid because she ends up questioning everything she does in preparation for the wedding because she doesn't know if the bride will be happy with it. If this happens, it's best to constantly run by the bride so you don't end up spending a lot of money on something that the bride will end up rejecting. 2. Money Money, money and more money. This is the one thing that really eats people up when it comes to planning a wedding. Everything requires cash. The bride does not cater for the expenses of the bridesmaids in terms of the dresses, shoes etc. So it's up to the maid to dig into her pocket and cater for what is needed. If the wedding is a grand or rather posh one, then it means most things will require loads of cash. If you are getting the dress made from scratch, then you'll have to put aside cash for buying material and cash for the tailor. Then we come to shoes, jewellery, hair, nails; all these need cash and you want the best of the best. One can end up spending upwards of Sh10,000 purchasing the items. 3. Time Weddings eat up so much time and you are needed to run around making sure that things go well. You might be working in an organisation that operates from 8am-5pm and so the only time you get to take care of tiny things is over lunch break. An hour is usually not enough, so you end looking for a flexible time plan so that you can finish up with errands. This is usually one of the things women hate when it comes to preparations. Last minute rushes are the worst and you might end up doing things in a less than perfect way, only to end up being disappointed on the day. 4. Demands If you are not ready to have demands sent your way, left right and center, then you'd better not be part of the bridal party because demands come with it. The demands may not be bad or hectic but sometimes they might give you a headache. 5. Mood swings Mood swings are a normal feeling everyone experiences. One minute you might be ok and the next you don't even want to breathe the same air with anyone. During preparations, you might find yourself not wanting to cooperate with the rest of the team. They might not understand where you are coming from and this can bring about misunderstandings between you and the rest of the party. Mood swings can be controlled but sometimes they get the best of you so it's best  you try and keep your feelings in check. 6. Communication We all know communication is key and if people don't use the right channel of communication, things might end up being ugly. Bridesmaids mostly end up knocking heads with the bride because the channel used to communicate may not have been the best. If you want to make changes or have queries about something in regards to the wedding or better yet being a bridesmaid, it's best if you communicate with the bride so that everyone can be on the same page. Failing which, beef might be created based on how something was communicated. 7. Families not getting along Families can mess a wedding. If the family of the bride and groom are not getting along, it's best you communicate with the bride and groom to see how you can help out in one way or another. Family differences tend to mess things, especially during preparations and on the wedding day. If you can do something to smooth things out, you can go ahead and do it but it's best to run your idea with the bride and groom.