Muslim elders from Garissa on Tuesday distanced themselves from the position taken by the Supreme Council of Kenya Muslims on the BBI. The BBI taskforce presented its report to President Uhuru Kenyatta after finalising their countrywide forums through which they collected public views on measures to ensure a prosperous and sustainable country. On Sunday, Supkem officials, led by acting chairman Hassan ole Naado, criticised the taskforce report and took issue with the extension of its term. This came barely two days after President Kenyatta and former Prime Minister Raila Odinga announced the extension. At a press conference in Nairobi, Supkem officials picked holes in the report. Naado said although the handshake that gave birth to the BBI taskforce had quelled political temperatures, the recommendations still have huge gaps, which the same team cannot fix. But addressing the press in Garissa, Muslim elders, led by Kenya Livestock Marketing Council chairman Dubat Amey, said the taskforce is best placed to steer the BBI debate to the next level. “The combination of this taskforce was the best you could get. These are wise men and women with distinguished service to the country,” he said. “This is a team that went round the county, collected views from Kenyans and compiled a report. If there are gaps discovered, then they are better placed to fill them.” Dubat said having a new team as suggested by Supkem would be counterproductive, as it would amount to starting the process afresh. For his part, Dekhow Mohamed questioned why the author of the BBI report is being rejected by Supkem officials, yet it was widely accepted by many Kenyans, including elected leaders. He said Garissa Senator Yusuf Haji, a respected Muslim elder who chairs the team, could not have allowed the report to pass without ensuring the interests of the Muslim community are clearly captured. Across the country, the extension has elicited mixed reactions among leaders, especially the political class and clerics. While some have supported the decision, others have called for the inclusion of law experts and the youth to ensure a comprehensive output. On Monday ACK Archbishop Jackson ole Sapit expressed his reservation on the extension and instead called for fresh minds devoid of political affiliation to steer the report to the next level. He said the President should have listened to Kenyans and included the youth who have fresh minds and are the future of Kenya, but not the handshake team. (Edited by F'Orieny)