 Youths from Kisumu have asked the DCI to summon Deputy President William Ruto over allegations of threatening Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua. Mutua on Monday recorded a statement with police saying Ruto threatened his life when they met at State House. The governor also said Senate Majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen and his National Assembly counterpart Aden Duale also threatened him. The Kisumu youths said the Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti should not take lightly the threats on Mutua's life. Mutua said he held his hand out to greet Ruto but the DP allegedly grabbed and held on to his hand and told him “you fellow, you have been attacking me very much…I must now crush you…I will crush you.” The more than 20 youths led by Michael Raphael on Tuesday condemned the threats and demanded a thorough investigation. Raphael said both Duale and Murkomen should also be probed. Speaking at Kenyatta Sports Grounds, they threatened to mobilise youths across the country to push for investigation on the incident, saying Kenyans were tired of extra-judicial killings and violence. “We want those mentioned summoned and questioned irrespective of their status in the society. Nobody is above the law,” Raphael said. He said every Kenyan is entitled to his/her political affiliation and has the right to vie for any political seat without intimidation or threats. “You cannot force someone to support you or your ideologies. If you want his or her support the best you can do is to convince him.” The youth said such threats were destruction to the national course in the spirit of the Building Bridges Initiative that calls for unity. They asked Kenyans to shun leaders who thrive on violence. Mutua linked the threats on his life to his 2022 presidential ambitions and his outspokenness on corruption and other key issues affecting the country. But Murkomen said Mutua was making wild claims to divert attention from his failures as Machakos governor. Duale said the governor was seeking cheap political mileage by making fictitious allegations. They said Mutua's allegations were a desperate attempt to divert attention from his dwindling political fortunes.  edited by p.obuya