Vipingo Development Company is preparing the young generation locally with educational skills to allow them to take over jobs at the multi-billion modern city the firm is setting up in Kilifi. The company is a subsidiary of Centum Investment company that is developing the largest mixed-use development at the Coast that will become a model city for East Africa. The first phase of the residential component is set to be ready in early next year and is set to comprise commercial, residential, hospitality and institutional zones being set up within a controlled master-planned development. The project is spread over 10,254 acres and is supported by the urban environment, high-quality infrastructure and state of the art amenity services. Vipingo is investing in education and infrastructure in schools to prepare the children for the jobs the project will avail. Already, the company has completed new facilities in four schools in Vipingo together with a vocational school. Vipingo Development MD Kenneth Mbae said their mission is to see that in the next 10 years, youth who graduate with skills that will be in line with the project component take over the jobs that will exist. He said the vocational training programme run by the developer has already facilitated graduation of 150 youth with various construction skills with a majority of them securing jobs in the various projects in the development. Further, the company has a full scholarship programme that has since supported 40 bright needy students to high school. Mbae said they have already handed over classrooms and libraries at Mkwajuni and Kadzinuni primary schools while Longhorn Publishers donated new curriculum books to the libraries. "These books will help the students aged between six and 18 in their quest for knowledge, this will directly transform and enhance the quality of education to 659 pupils of Kadzinuni and 1,368 pupils at Mkwajuni Primary school," Mbae said. The MD said the Vipingo Development will bring economic and social benefits to the Vipingo community, Kilifi county, and the entire coastal region. He promised more commitment by the developer in helping young people succeed and or support of the whole community. Mwkajuni Primary headteacher Charity Mapenzi hailed Vipingo Development for upgrading their school and equipping them with new curriculum books. "The facilities will go a long way in advancing the quality of education in the school," the teacher said. There was excitement at the school as they received the new classrooms, the library and books. Edited by R.Wamochie