Eleven-time Kenyan Premier League champions Tusker opened a two-point gap at the top after beating Wazito by a solitary goal yesterday at the Kenyatta Stadium, Machakos. Erick Ambunya plundered home the winning goal in the 73rd minute after George ‘Blackberry’Odhiambo’s superbly taken backheel picked him in the box unmarked, firing past Kevin Omondi. It was Ambunya’s first goal in a Tusker shirt since joining from Kakamega Homeboyz January last year. The win stretched Tusker’s unbeaten run to seven matches, leaving coach Robert Matano elated for their latest rejuvenation which he credited to hard work. “We played well even though the pitch did not allow us to play according to our script.We did changes at half-time which bore fruits. The hard work in the playing unit is rife and has kept us on track,” he said While Matano was over the moon following the win, his Wazito counterpart Stewart Hall rued the absence of Musa Masika and Johnstone Omurwa who are with Harambee Stars in the ongoing Cecafa Senior Challenge. “Musa is creative and Omurwa is a good defender and I think they would have made a difference. In our last match, we played poorly but today we had vigour and hunger to score goals. Atleast, today we lost honourably and the players should step up for the next match,” he added. Meanwhile,Homeboyz continued their good run, drowning Bandari 1-0 at the Bukhungu Stadium to take their wins to eight as well as scaling to second. Christopher Masinza netted the winner in the early minutes of the game to see his side eclipse Gor Mahia who dropped to third by a point. In other matches played,National U-20 Rising Stars striker Benson Omala struck a hat-trick as Western Stima electrocuted Zoo Kericho 4-1 at the Moi Stadium, Kisumu. Salim Odeka scored the fourth goal while Geoffrey Gichana found the back of the net for Zoo. Following the win, the power men stretched their collection to 24 points—one shy of Gor who now have three matches in hand. Elsewhere, Chemelil Sugar’s wait for their first win of the season continued after losing 4-1 to Ulinzi Stars at the Muhoroni Stadium to stretch their winless start to 13 matches. A brace from last season’s top scorer Enosh Ochieng inspired the soldiers to their fifth win of the season which consequently took their tally to 21  John Kago and Ezekiel Okare added on Ochieng’s brace to complete the rout. David Simiyu scored Chemelil’s lone goal.