Purported informers lure police officers to death when the security teams' vehicles run over IEDs while responding to al Shabaab presence, police spokesman Charles Owino has said. The informers and some locals collude with the terrorists and plant landmines in feeder roads on the Kenya-Somalia border, Owino disclosed. The latest attack happened on Friday, December 27, at 4pm in Wajir county. Two special forces officers died and seven were injured. At times, the officers respond to the "distress calls" only to be blown up in explosions. Owino gave the example of 15 June when 13 officers died after their vehicle ran over an improvised explosive device in Wajir. The officers were responding to  Islamist militants raid on a village. In some cases, the deaths are due to "human errors of judgment.  But we do not want to blame the dead," the spokesman said. "Sometimes it is a miscalculation when someone tells you he has information and you jump on the vehicle [in response to it] without thinking through it," he said. His explanation follows mounting concerns on the frequency of explosions in the Northeastern region in which close to 30 officers have died. To address this concern among others, the government purchased Armoured Personnel Carrier (APC) and Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) vehicles. This intervention is yet to be fully felt. Twelve officers from the Harhar General Service Unit (GSU) camp in Daadab, Garissa, were killed on October 12 at Degow between Liboi and Damajale close to the border with Somalia. Their vehicle ran over an IED during a routine security patrol. The Ghorof, Katulo and Elwark areas are laden with landmines and officers on patrol are exposed. On December 23, a group of Special Forces officers based at Katulo cheated death after an IED exploded.  It had been planted along the Tarbaj-Katulo road. The officers were on foot patrol between Wargadud and Dargut. The IED exploded 24 hours after al Shabaab militants attacked a construction site at Hagarsu, Mandera East, destroying an excavator, two rollers and a pressure pump. The damage was estimated at Sh39.8 million. Owino said the al Shabaab terrorists had infiltrated border villages in Mandera, Wajir and Garissa. On whether all this could give a damper on the security forces operations, he said the nature of work of the officers is risky "and we know what we sign up for." "We sign up for this job knowing we can die anytime. We are proud to die defending our nation," he said. Owino said that although the reported attacks appeared to suggest an increase of terrorist attacks, police have averted a lot more resulting. He said there is a general decline of crime and terror attack in the region.