  Nairobi Stima coach Leonard Odipo has hinted on recruiting new players in January after finishing fourth in the first leg of the National Super League. Stima, who at the start of the season revealed their intentions of booking a place in the Kenya Premier League, wrapped up the first leg with 35 points—eight behind league leaders Nairobi City Stars. Odipo said he will be seeking to bring in unspecified number of midfielders and strikers to aid keep close tabs with City Stars who have lost once in 18 matches. The transfer window will be open throughout January. “At the beginning of the season, I wanted a top-four finish. I’m satisfied with the way we have played so far. I’m in the market for midfielders and strikers. Those are the areas we need to strengthen in the mid-season transfer window,” said Odipo. Stima have in the past three seasons missed promotion narrowly but breaking the jinx also highlights Odipo’s new year resolutions. “In the last two or three seasons, Stima have narrowly missed promotion to the top tier league and I want to break that jinx this season. We are on course and we want to maintain our momentum,” added Odipo. After 18 encounters, Bidco United and former KPL side Vihiga United are placed second and third with 36 and 35 points respectively while Migori Youth closes the top five bracket. Meanwhile,Vincent Nyaberi has been confirmed as Shabana’s head coach in the forthcoming second leg set to kick off on January 11.Nyaberi has been in charge since the unceremonious exit of Andrew Kanuli two weeks ago. “I don’t know about his whereabouts (Kanuli) and I don’t want to comment much about it. We have asked Nyaberi to take charge of the team in the second leg,” said Shabana chairman Jared Nivaton. Nivaton said Nyaberi has been given a free hand to recruit at least 10 players ahead of the second round which kicks off on January 11. ]“We expect the team to be competitive in the second leg. We had challenges in the first round but we hope to surmount some of them next year,” added Nivaton. Nyaberi said he is up to the task. “First of all, I want to thank the management for the trust they have in me. If we get the necessary support, this team will perform well in the second round,” added the former Shabana and Thika United defender. He wants to recruit four defenders, two midfielders and a striker. “The biggest undoing has been the defence. We have to get four defenders,” Nyaberi added.