Austrian Kris Rosenberger believes tactics helped him to clinch the ninth edition of the East African Safari Classic Rally which culminated at the Whitesands in Mombasa after a 3390km drive in Kenya and Uganda. Rosenberger said he maintained his pace to keep up with Stig Blomqvist in the second half of the event. “It was a fantastic rally. Our tactics were 100% right. We knew Stig was obviously the best. We knew if we stay close to him, we had the pace to oust him and we really pushed hard in the last stage," observed the winner before adding. "We knew it would be a herculean task to. He had more problems than us and we still think he is the man and we are happy to be here,” finalised Rosenberger. Navigated by Nicola Bleicher,  Rosenberger finished held a 1 minute 19.40 seconds advantage over Blomqvist before the final stage and went on to finish second in the final Mombasa Cement stage. The Austrian, who last rallied in Kenya back in 1987 when he finished 8th, stormed to the finish of the 9-day endurance rally claiming victory by 13:01:48. His calm and assured march to the podium bellied the excitement that was bubbling underneath and it exploded in solid steam of joy at Whitesands. The Austrian and co-driver Nicola Bleicher finished ahead of 2015 Safari Classic champion Stig Blomqvist also in a Porsche 911. Blomqvist navigated by compatriot Jorgen Fornander used his vast experience in endurance rallying after the tough got going in the last two days. In the last section on Thursday, his Porsche 911 steering dumper broke 50Km into the last stage, while on Friday he had a soft roll in the last Mombasa Cement stage losing some time. Kabras Sugar Racing’s Onkar Rai completed the podium dash finishing third in a Porsche 911 navigated by Drew Sturrock. Onkar managed to post the fastest times winning 6 out of the 20 run competitive stages “Pretty awesome but disappointed that we could have won this rally but it’s part of rallying but glad to be here. I span in this last stage and luckily we are here. To be honest it’s been a quick safari and to be able to beat people like Stig is a pretty big achievement for me. Drew has been on the notes and I have been on the pace. We had a bit of bad luck, it’s part of rallying and we get over it and we would like to be back in 2021," Onkar noted. The other best placed Kenyan’s include Onkar's elder brother Tejveer Rai/Gavin Laurence who finished 8th, ALS Motorsports Aslam Khan/Imran Khan finished 11th while Kabras Sugar Racing’s Baldev Charger/Ravi Sini finished 14th.ReplyForward