Flood victims in Hulugho, Sangailu, Bothai and Galmagala areas of in Garissa county have received relief food from the government. A military chopper was used to transport food and other essential items to the over 1,000 families. Residents in the area were displaced following persistent heavy rainfall. Garissa county commissioner Meru Mwangi, Deputy Governor Abdi Dagane and Ijara MP Sophia Abdi oversaw the airlift at the Garissa Airstrip. Ijara MP Sophia Abdi urged the national government to continue airlifting relief food to flood victims until the roads become passable. Abdi said though welcome, the food was but a drop in the ocean. “As much as I want to KDF for providing their plane and the national government for coming to the aid of my people, it should not be a one-off thing,” she said. She called on both the national and county governments to ensure that they assist wananchi during their hour of need. Abdi said that priority should be given to the upgrading of roads to make them all-weather. The legislator said that whenever it rains, the residents are cut off from the other parts of the county. She said the poor roads are also as a security risk since militants take advantage of them to carry out attacks knowing that security officers will not be able to respond in time. Garissa county commissioner Meru Mwangi said the food airlifts will continue to reduce the suffering of residents from the affected areas. “I want to assure residents of Garissa county that the humanitarian efforts will continue until the situation improves. We cannot let our people suffer,” he said. He said the Ministry of Devolution and Asal regions was committed to intervening in the crisis. Dagane said that the county will continue teaming up with the national government and other NGOs like  WFP and the Kenya Red Cross to ensure IDPs get support. The deputy governor also chaired a stakeholder meeting in the governor's boardroom to discuss strategies of supplying relief aid to the affected residents. He said all supplies will be distributed immediately they reach the targeted destinations considered to be seriously affected. The Kenya Red Cross team led by the regional coordinator Mohamed Abdikadir took part in the distribution of items donated by the organisation. 