Primary school heads will be required to ensure all candidates who sat this year's KCPE exam in their institutions have joined secondary schools. The directive by the Education ministry demands that the school heads develop a tracking system that will trace if all their candidates have joined secondary school. The heads will also be required to file daily reports on the progress of the same. A parallel report will be filed by the secondary school the learners are supposed to join and will be used to counter-check the progress of the admission. “I am tasking you (headteachers) to develop a tracking system within your individual schools to ensure that you work with chiefs and other education and TSC field officers to account for all your 2019 candidates,” a document from the ministry reads. This year, 1,083,456 pupils sat the KCPE exam and 1,075,201 of them have been placed in secondary schools. The students are expected in the secondary schools they have been placed in between January 13 and 19. On Monday, Magoha said the government will ensure every learner transits from primary to secondary school. The CS was speaking in Nairobi where he unveiled the Form 1 placement list. Part of the plan will involve the ministry working with chiefs and other officials in the Interior Ministry to facilitate the enrolment of every child in secondary school. The chiefs will be required to prevent exploitation of the learners occasioned by cultural practices of teenage pregnancies, early marriage, child labour among others. Such practices have hurt enrolment among pastoral communities in Northern Kenya and the Coast. On Wednesday, the Kenya Primary Schools Heads Association supported the drive by the ministry terming it a reputable cause. Kepsa chairman Nicholas Gathemia said they had directed heads to compile lists of all KCPE candidates before the admission exercise to facilitate 100 per cent transition to Form 1 next year. "The headteachers will collect the names and numbers of the candidates in their jurisdictions so as to locate these children. We want to deal with this problem early so when results are announced, we will be able to trace them," Gathemia said. Last year, the Education ministry—under the leadership of then CS Amina Mohamed—led an initiative cleped the ‘Last Mile Form 1 Admission Campaign towards 100 per cent transition'. The intention then was to ensure the remaining 130,000 students who were yet to report to secondary schools were tracked and put in school. The ministry boasts of an all-time high–93 per cent admission to secondary school—a record in last year's exercise that saw the population surge to 2.8 million learners. This year’s admission is expected to push the population to slightly over 2.9 million if the 100 per cent enrollment is achieved. Edited by R.Wamochie