President Uhuru Kenyatta has sent a message of condolence to the family, relatives and friends of National Cohesion and Integration Commission (NCIC) Vice Chairperson Fatuma Tabwara who died Sunday morning. In his message of condolence, President Kenyatta described the late NCIC Vice-Chair as a great national leader and role model who was an outstanding champion of the rights of women and the girl-child, especially in Kwale County. President Kenyatta said Ms Tabwara will particularly be remembered for the role she played in the formulation of the sexual harassment policy in Kwale County. “It is very sad indeed that we have lost one of the promising women leaders in the Coast region. In this hour of sorrow and grief, I convey my deepest sympathies and heartfelt condolences to her family, relatives and friends,” President Kenyatta said. “It is my prayer that the Almighty God will give you the strength and courage to bear the loss,” the President added. President Kenyatta observed that the late NCIC Vice-Chairperson was a person of enormous influence, saying the many girls and women who she mentored will miss her wise counsel and guidance. Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya hailed Tabwara as a great leader and an icon for the Kwale community. While mourning with the family at Kombani Mvurya said Tabwara was instrumental to the county agendas. He said she has contributed a lot in transforming the lives of Kwale people. "She gave up a lot in ensuring the welfare of the locals and as she ascended through various leadership, " he said. Mvurya said the demise of Tabwara is a huge loss not only to the family but the entire nation. "Her death is a major loss not only to communities living around but indeed for the whole country, " he said. Mvurya learnt from the family members that Tabwara was well and had attended two weddings on Saturday. Mvurya asked the family members, friends and relatives to remain strong as they pass through the trying moment. Tabwara will be laid to rest on Monday at Kombani in Kwale county.