Next year will be full of expectations and differences. There have been changes and improvements in what DStv will show in 2020. You don't want to miss out. These are the mouth-watering sporting line-ups so far. WWE 2020 will be a great year for wrestling fans. WWE Raw, SmackDown and NXT live will be available every week. Supersport will feature premium WWE programming including 205 Live, Ride Along, WWE Chronicle and Table for 3. The 24/7 channel launches on DStv channel 128 beginning Wednesday, Jan. 1, 2020, and this builds on the success of the WWE pop-up channel that launched in 2019. SuperSport channels will continue to air Raw, SmackDown and NXT live each week Vodacom Super rugby The action resumes at the end of January 2020 with mouthwatering fixtures including Sharks VS Bulls on the night of Friday 31 January and Crusaders vs Waratahs on Saturday 1st February. English Premier League There is set to be a change at the helm. With another healthy points advantage, Liverpool are on course to finally end what is now a 30-year wait for the title. In terms of league form the Anfield club are streets ahead of their rivals and even with another miraculous comeback the gap – 10 points at Christmas, with a game in hand – should be too big for Man City and Leicester to close. Australian Open The 2020 Australian Open will take place at Melbourne Park, from 20 January to 2 February 2020. It will be the 108th edition of the Australian Open, the 52nd in the Open Era, and the first Grand Slam of the year FINA Swimming World Cup This makes a return in 2020 and will be held in Abu Dhabi, UAE. The FINA World Swimming Championships (25m)or "Short Course Worlds" as they are sometimes known is an international swimming competition. It is swum in a short course (25m) pool and has been held in the years when FINA has not held its main World Championships (currently this means in even years).[5][6] IAAF Diamond League Interesting to watch as eight disciplines have been axed from the core programme of the 2020 Diamond League season, reducing the number to 24 – 12 each for men and women – to cater to a 90-minute broadcast window, according to the IAAF. The 2020 calendar consists of 14 meetings and one final in Zurich. Formula 1 The new year is upon us and the countdown to the 2020 F1 season is underway. Out of the 20 drivers in the field, 18 will start the new season in the same seats they ended last year. The exception are at Renault and Williams. Ferrari is set to give a strong fight while it also feels like McLaren are finally back(ish). The 2020 F1 calendar is the longest in the history of the sport, with a record-breaking 22 races. This is despite Germany’s round of the championship dropping off the calendar. The only brand-new addition to the championship this year is Vietnam’s new street circuit in Hanoi, which should be ready in time to hold its first race in just four months’ time. Moto GP The world stood still for a moment as Marc Marquez sealed his sixth MotoGP world title in Thailand in a heart-pounding final corner duel with Fabio Quartararo. He now predicts an even closer title battle this year as the champion sees Quartararo becoming a major threat. Meanwhile, the Repsol Honda MotoGP team will be a family affair next season after the Japanese manufacturer announced on Monday that Alex Marquez was joining as teammate to older brother Marc. The 2020 MotoGP season starts in Qatar on 8 March. African Nations Championship 2020 The 2020 African Nations Championship, known as the Total African Nations Championship (also referred to as CHAN 2020) will be the 6th edition of the African Nations Championship. Organized by the Confederation of African Football (CAF) exclusively featuring players from the respective national championships. It will be hosted from 4 to 25 April 2020 in Cameroon. Ethiopia were formerly awarded as host, but the EFF admitted it was not ready to host this competition. Unlike the African Cup of Nations, the competing national teams must be composed of players playing in their domestic league. About SuperSport SuperSport is the major funder and broadcast aggregator of sporting content across the African continent on the DStv platform. SuperSport's holding company is MultiChoice and its ultimate parent company is Naspers, a broad-based multi- national media group. To get connected, call: 0711 066000