 Senators passed 28 bills and 83 motions and also considered 273 statements in 2019, their scorecard shows. The scorecard released on Wednesday shows eight of the bills approved during year originated from the Senate and were assented to by President Uhuru Kenyatta. They include the Assumption of Office of County Governor Bill, the Warehouse Receipts System Bill, the County Allocation of Revenue Bill, the Urban Areas and Cities (Amendment) Bill and the Division of Revenue (Amendment) Bill. Ten of the 28 pieces of legislation approved and signed into law were referred to the House from the National Assembly. They include the Election Laws (Amendment) Bill, the Division of Revenue Bill, the Energy Bill, the Petroleum Bill, the Physical and Land Use Planning Bill, the Land Value Index Laws (Amendment) Bill, the Copyright (Amendment) Bill and the County Governments Retirement Scheme Bill. In total, 71 Senate bills were published during the period with 39 being referred to the National Assembly for concurrence. Another 31 pieces of legislation originating from the Senate are pending in the National Assembly. They include the National Flag, Emblems and Names (Amendment) Bill, the County Boundaries Bill, the Office of the County Printer Bill, the Disaster Risk Management Bill, the Food Security Bill, the County Statistics and County Governments (Amendment) Bill, the Public Participation Bill, the Statutory Instruments (Amendment) Bill, the County Statutory Instruments Bill, the Determination of the Nature of Bills (Procedure) Bill, the National Cohesion and Peace Building Bill and the Local Content Bill. Some three bills were referred back from the National Assembly, two are at a mediation, one was negatived and four withdrawn. Another 22 are at various stages of debate in the Senate. Sixteen of them are at the Committee Stage, 12 at Second Reading and two are due for First Reading. They include the Election Laws (Amendment) Bill, the County Governments Retirement Scheme Bill, the Retirement Benefits (Deputy President and Designated State Officers) (Amendment) Bill, the Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill and the Kenya Medical Supplies Authority (Amendment) Bill. The data shows some 21 bills were referred to the Senate from the National Assembly, out of which 10 were passed and assented to. One is at mediation, two were defeated and eight are pending conclusion in the House. The Senate passed 83 motions out of 96 that were introduced during the session. The lawmakers also considered 275 statements, comprising 57 issued on matters of county or national importance. Some 78 messages were processed during the year comprising nine from the Senate to the National Assembly, and one from the President. The House also adopted 53 resolutions on various matters of importance, among them the disbursement of funds to county governments, the realisation of gender equality in elective and appointive positions, waiver of interest on loans to graduates by the Higher Education Loans Board and staff rationalisation in counties.  edited by p.o