Increased coordination among Nyanza stakeholders led to improved performance in the 2019 KCSE exams, regional education director Richard Limo has said. Limo said education officials visited all the counties in Nyanza to dialogue on how they could improve performance in the region. Giant schools such as Maseno School (Kisumu), Maranda High (Siaya), Asumbi Girls (Homa Bay), Kisii High (Kisii), Kanga High (Migori) and Nyambaria High (Nyamira) returned to the top in this year’s KCSE. Speaking on Friday, the education director commended secondary schools in the region for their hard work. He urged teachers to maintain the standards “As officials, we’ll continue to support students, teachers and all education stakeholders to ensure Nyanza schools realise exemplary exam performance,” Limo said. Meanwhile, in this year’s results, there were few cases of exam malpractices in the region as compared to the previous years. According to Limo, the number of candidates whose results were cancelled reduced. “We’re happy there were negligible cases of cheating in the entire region. Most students received their results except a few individuals who were punished because they were found with foreign materials in exam rooms,” he added. Previously, some subcounties in Nyanza region were marked as areas with a greater likelihood of cheating in exams. But Limo said the results were contrary to what was expected. “A majority of students have begun to concentrate in books and believe in themselves due to the talks we give them. Students have stopped depending on fake exam papers sold to them from unscrupulous people prior to exam days,” Limo said. Maseno school led in Nyanza with a mean grade of 9.09 points. Maranda in Siaya had a mean grade of 8.9 points, Agoro Sare in Homa Bay had 8.843 points, Kanga High in Migori county had 8.7 points, Kiage Tumanini Boys of Kisii county had 8.6 points, Asumbi  Girls in Homa Bay had 8.585 points, Mbita High with 8.466 points. Kisii High had 8.3 points, Nyambairia High in Nyamira 8.01 points and Kisumu Girls had 7.89 points. 