The US Government will deal directly with the counties in supporting development projects. Ambassador Kyle McCarter made the announcement on Monday in Mbale town during his tour of Vihiga. He was hosted by Governor WilberOttichilo and County Commissioner Ochillo Oyugi. McCarter said the US is keen to see Kenya become self-reliant so it can be a benefactor for countries in East and Central Africa. He said Kenya has to move from being a perennial beneficiary of external aid. "Kenya has the ability to be self-reliant," he emphasised. The devolved units are endowed with diverse natural and human resources capable of converting Kenya into a great country in Africa and the globe, McCarter added. "I've embarked on a tour of all the counties to understand the people and available natural resources that the US government is going to work on as it strives to turn Kenya into an economic hub in East and Central Africa." He urged Kenyans to work harder, citing primary health and water as some of the sectors in which his country is keen to strike partnerships with the counties. "The US government will continue to boost development friendship with the Kenyan government through initiating and supporting ongoing US-funded projects and programmes aimed at improving livelihoods and living standards of the citizens,” he sought to assure those in attendance. McCarter praised President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga for coming up with the Building Bridges Initiative, saying the public release of its report was a great milestone in the devolution journey. "Devolution is the best form of governance, as it brings government projects, programmes and services closer to citizens." He said devolution is the quickest way to address peoples’ needs and urged Kenyans to support and adopt the BBI report. Governor Ottichilo and Commissioner Oyugi thanked the envoy and promised to closely work with his country to spur economic growth. Oyugi, in particular, thanked the US government for its continued support for the disabled in Luanda subcounty. He appealed to the US to broaden the support to cover all groups of people living with disabilities across the county. He also urged the US to help the county tame insecurity, which he blamed for reducing investors’ confidence, and called for support for the youth through talent academies. "We urge your government to help economically viable alternative ways that will see individuals rehabilitated are absorbed back to society,” Oyugi appealed, citing sports as one of the potential sectors for youth investment. "We pray your government would consider investing in talent academies in Vihiga through this partnership. Vihiga is home to the leading women soccer team in Kenya," he said in reference to VihigaQueens, a football club based in the county. (Edited by F'Orieny)