As some Kenyans had their fill of merrymaking to usher in the New Year, all a family in Baringo cared about was whether they would get their next meal. Joseph Cherutich, 40 and his wife Sheila, 35, have been struggling to provide for their eight children, their lastborn being one year old. They live in a one-room shack in the sleepy village of Kimiloi, Sabor, Baringo South. In July, the Star highlighted their plight, and two of their children got help. The rest still lead a life full of gloom and doom. “Our problem here is always lack of jobs and unavailability of money to provide for ourselves and our children,” Cherutich said. He works as a cowboy at a neighbour’s home and earns a meagre Sh2,000 a month, not even enough to provide basic needs. Their battle with malnutrition has been on for years. Two children have previously died from acute starvation — a six-year-old in 2013 and a five-year-old last July. In July, three-year Jeptoo and four-year-old Jebiwott were rescued. They are doing well at Kabarnet Sunrise Children’s Home. “They are now recuperating after receiving balanced diets,” facility director Mary Sang said. At the time of their rescue, their skin had wrinkled and begun to peel off. Sang said their efforts are paying off. The two appear healthier and stronger than they were and can afford to smile. Back home, nothing has changed. Their brother, Evans Kiptum, sat his KCPE exam last year and scored 213. He has been offered a slot at Korima Day Secondary School but is uncertain whether he will get admission. The government pays for tuition in day secondary schools but students have to incur other expenses such as lunch. For Cherutich, getting the cash to enable his son to join Form 1 will be a tall order. His wife concurs. “We are not even sure of our next meal. The two kilogrammes of maize flour I bought yesterday got finished last night. Now we don’t know where to get the next meal,” Sheila said. She was paid Sh200 for a menial job and used it to buy the flour, sukuma wiki and milk. Doctors diagnosed her children with acute malnutrition and instructed her to feed them on balanced diets, not just on ugali and porridge, but she says she cannot afford it. “It’s not our fault due to financial constraint. We cannot afford nutritious foods. I always give birth well to my children. After some time, they suddenly develop a black wrinkled skin, lose appetite and weight,” Sheila said, amid sobs. Baringo Health chief officer Gideon Toromo said many children suffer from acute Protein Energy Malnutrition (PEM) caused by lack of proper diets. He said the problem is widespread in the county “although majority cases go unreported”. He said the darkening inflammation of the children’s skin is caused by a lack of magnesium in the body that leads to low immunity, hence making them vulnerable to pneumonia and diarrhoea. Toromo called for family planning and the war on illiteracy, retrogressive cultural practices and drought as ways of fixing the problem. “Malnourished children lack important foods like protein. Their infections are normally treated with antibiotics,” he said. On Monday, a youth group from Eldama-Ravine, led by one Mary Muthoni, donated rice, baking flour, cooking oil and bedding worth more than Sh150,000 to hungry villagers. Cherutich’es family was among the beneficiaries. “The situation here, especially for Cherutich’es family, is worse. It needs some more financial and material help to build them a better house, purchase foodstuff, bedding and clothes,” Muthoni said. They left Cherutich and his children with the hope that society is watching and cares about them. Meantime, the family will have to do with what they have. Inside their shanty are two small improvised makeshift beds and tattered bedding. Their situation is made worse by the presence of scorpions and snakes in the surrounding area.