Unfancied Eritrea stand between Harambee Stars and a place in a second successive Cecafa Senior Challenge cup final when the two sides clash this afternoon in the first semi final in Kampala. Eritrea survived a five-team group to finish second behind Uganda and sail into the semis at the expense of highly regarded Burundi. They will thus be no pushovers even in the face of the might of Kenya. Stars won all their Group ‘B’ matches with Bandari’s Hassan Abdalla and Ulinzi Stars’ Oliver Maloba helping themselves to two goals each in the three victories over Tanzania, Sudan and Zanzibar. “We came here to win the tournament and so far, everything is on track. We take each opponent seriously particularly in the knockout stages because to be there, it means they earned it and deserve to be treated with respect,” remarked assistant coach Zedekiah Otieno when quizzed on the threat posed by Eritrea. The KCB tactician observed that the decision to rest several players in the last group match (1-0 win over Zanzibar) bodes well for the team. “We were happy we made changes in personnel but it did not change our tactical performance. I hope that will put us in a good position in terms of recovery of the players,” he said. Zico was in charge of Stars’ last two group matches with head coach Francis Kimanzi suspended. Kimanzi, however, completed his punishment and will be in the dug-out today. The Stars coaching staff are likely to stay true to the mantra ‘If it ain’t broken don’t fix it’ and send out the starting eleven that has done well so far. Meanwhile, versatile midfielder Kenneth Muguna has appealed to teammates to give a100 percent input to edge the history chasing Eritreans. The midfielder, who missed the Zanzibar clash, anticipates a tough match but believes Stars will eventually prevail. “We are ready to fight till the final whistle and sail to the final. It’s going to be a tough match considering that Eritrea have done well in the group stages. We can’t afford to underrate them as they are equally muscling to make it to the finals. I am looking forward to return to the starting team after missing the final group stage match thanks to the rotational changes made by the coach,” said the Gor Mahia captain. Western Stima shotstopper, the burly Samuel Odhiambo will start in goal with Samuel Olwande, David Owino, skipper Joash Onyango and Johnston Omurwa manning the defence. Lawrence Juma and Muguna will be in central midfield. It is, however, touch and go between Kevin Kimanzi and Whyovone Isuza for the attacking midfield slot. Abdalla and Maloba, meanwhile, have earned a right to be partnered upfront. Victory for Stars will put them on the path to a highly anticipated final against hosts Uganda Cranes who face off with Tanzania in the other semi final. Kenya have won six out of the nine meetings before losing twice and sharing spoils once. Eritrea led by former AFC Leopards coach Dorian Marin won the last encounter 1-0 in September 2007 during a an Africa Cup of Nations qualifier match in Nairobi.