Governors yesterday demanded an audience with President Uhuru Kenyatta following the arrest of Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko. The heads of the devolved units asked Uhuru to convene an emergency Summit due to the “uniqueness of Nairobi county to address the evolving situation." The summit is made up of Uhuru and 47 county governors. “Following the arrest and detention of Sonko, the Council of Governors is monitoring and consulting widely on the unfolding situation.  The President should convene an emergency summit," ” CoG chairman and Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya said. Sonko was arrested in Voi on Friday for graft related charges at City Hall. Governors are worried about the court barring Sonko from accessing his office following his prosecution. The office of the deputy governor has remained vacant after Polycarp Igathe resigned. "You can't be hiding or running away if you have government-designated bodyguards with you and your phone is on. The governor was on a normal daily mission," his lawyer Harrison Kinyanjui said. The government tightened security in Nairobi as the governor was moved around four police stations since his Friday arrest. Intelligence reports showed his staunch followers were planning to stage protests in Nairobi. “It is embarrassing that this happened to our beloved governor who now urgently needs medication because of the inhumane way he was treated by rogue police officers," Kinyanjui said. Sonko was briefly detained at the Voi police station before being airlifted to the Nairobi Integrity Centre police station on Friday at 2pm. He was briefly taken to Kilimani police station before spending the Friday and Saturday nights at Lari police station in Kiambu county. "Apart from injuring him mercilessly, the governor was also denied a chance to take his medication and the health situation is worsening," Sonko's lawyer said. The lawyer said the police officers defied cries from the governor who besides traveling to Mombasa to attend an official function also needed to get medication before noon as per his doctor's instructions. "He is courageous and confident and has warned against any drama. We are steadfast and on top of things. So let's wait," Kinyanjui said. Sonko, who limps after he sustained injuries during the dramatic arrest, called on his supporters to remain calm.