A plan by the Nakuru administration to relocate the Naivasha slaughterhouse is in limbo after MCAs went on recess without passing the supplementary budget. The relocation was meant to pave way for the construction of affordable houses at the site. Sh9 million had been set aside for a new slaughterhouse. The project involves constructing a modern abattoir to replace the existing one. Last month, the county issued workers and traders a two-month notice to vacate the facility ahead of the planned housing scheme. According to Lake View MCA Karanja Mburu, the slaughterhouse will be constructed on land that had been grabbed but was recovered by the county. He said slaughterhouse operators had agreed to move to the new site once its construction was complete. “We have held a meeting with those who operate from that slaughterhouse and we have all agreed to move to the new one once it’s complete,” he said. Mburu said the current location of the abattoir would be used to construct more than 2,400 houses under the Big Four Agenda. “The new slaughterhouse will be located near Kihoto estate where we have enough land. Once we resume our sittings we will pass the supplementary budget so that the works can commence,” he said. He termed the project a game-changer in the meat industry because for the first time, the new slaughterhouse will have adequate machines for value addition. “We will be able to market meat products by labelling them once this facility is complete and will mean more money for those in the industry,” he said. Meanwhile, Mburu said he has prepared a bill to help the county deal with disasters in real-time so as to protect lives and property. The MCA who chairs the Disaster Management committee said the county will be compelled to set funds and all machinery available for disaster response once the bill is passed. “We want to be the first county to have a detailed plan on disaster preparedness so that we can react to them once they occur other than the current arrangement,” he said. 