A man who violently robbed a Maasai herder of Sh700 while he was grazing his father's cattle has been convicted to 33 years in jail. Raphael Mayoma was convicted by Kibera senior principal magistrate Esther Boke after the prosecution successfully proved the case against him. Mayoma is accused that on October 22, 2017, he used violence and force to rob Thomas Ntikoisan of the money and a mobile phone worth Sh12,500. He committed the offence at Kibera dam in Lang’ata subcounty within Nairobi county. He denied the charges and was released on bond. Ntikoisan testified that he was with his friend when two men came from behind while he was talking on the phone. Mayoma grabbed the Gp7 brand phone and stole his money and handed it to the other, he said. He said that the accused person hit him with his fist, bruising his eyes. “He then held me by the neck and removed a handcuff and placed on my hand,” he testified. He told the court that Mayoma pretended to be a police officer and ordered him to cooperate, so he did. “I just relaxed and monitored him since I suspected they were thieves,” he told the court. He said that he and his friend later called for help and good Samaritans who were also grazing around went after Mayoma. They caught him, roughed him up and arrested him before escorting him to the police station, he said. Investigating officer Daniel Seretu testified that he saw the accused person and his co-accused robbing the complainant his mobile phone. The second accused was not arrested then. “I saw the man being robbed of his mobile phone, the accused person and his friend beat him up with fist and stole it, we came to his rescue and we arrested one of the accused people, who is before this court. The complainant was around 100 metres from the accused,” the officer attached to Lang'ata police station told the court. A doctor also testified in court. Mayoma declined to cross-examine the complainant and the witness. In her verdict on Friday, Boke ruled that the evidence before the court was enough to prove that Mayoma person committed the offence. She gave him 14 days to appeal. Edited by R.Wamochie