While Kenya has been an active participant at the international stage, things have not been easy in the region. This is despite reports that Uganda President Yoweri Museveni and Busia Senator Amos Wako will lead a team to work on a federation for the six East African Community countries. In what is emerging to be a reaction to the Coalition of the Willing, Tanzania signed an agreement to link its standard gauge railway with Burundi and the DRC, in what could be a major blow to Kenya’s SGR. It is also turbulent in the air for Kenya Airways as the once Price of Africa is facing cutthroat competition in the region. On Wednesday last week, Qatar and Rwanda signed an aviation deal in which the Qatari government will invest in a new Sh131 billion airport in the outskirts of Kigali. Doha will have a 60 per cent stake in the airport, which is expected to handle 14 million passengers per year, double JKIA’s 7 million current capacity. “The new airport is being redesigned to accommodate seven million passengers per year, with a second phase for 14 million passengers a year expected to start by 2032”. Although Kenya is yet to secure funding to extend SGR to Malaba and into Uganda, it is planning to build an inland container depot at Mai Mahiu, from where import cargo destined for Uganda, Rwanda, South Sudan and DRC through Mombasa port will be offloaded for onward transmission. Asked what impact the development would have on Kenya’s SGR, acting MD Philip Maingi said, through an aide,  he didn’t have a comment. Kenya was dumped by Uganda in favour of Tanzania in the oil pipeline deal. Kenya and Uganda had agreed to construct a pipeline through the northern Lamu route in 2015 but Uganda opted for the Kabaale-Tanga route over the Hoima-Lokichar-Lamu route that Kenya preferred. Kenya is also grappling with a maritime border dispute with Somalia, which is at the International Court of Justice, and threatens its Coastline, an entry into the region’s economic hub. TRADE NUMBERS According to the Economic Survey 2018, exports to the EAC decreased from Sh131.6 billion in 2017 to Sh129 billion last year. Export earnings from Somalia and DRC declined by 23.3 per cent and 19.6 per cent respectively in 2018. Total exports to Comesa countries also dropped by 3.8 per cent from Sh166.4 billion to Sh160 billion in 2018. On the other hand, value of imports from Uganda rose by 17.6 per cent to Sh49.4 billion due to increased maize, sugar, milk and animal feeds imports. The National Assembly’s Committee on Agriculture now wants the government to ban further importation of milk from Uganda. Imports from Tanzania rose to Sh17.8 billion. Prof Macharia Munene, who teaches international relations at USIU, told the Star Kenya has been and remains the economic hub in the region. He, however, noted there is danger of losing this if the country continues to do things wrongly internally, especially inefficiency and corruption. “The challenge is not really what others are doing but Kenya is doing. It is, however, important to know what is happening so that policymakers can adjust accordingly,” he said. “Other countries in the region are doing everything possible to bring themselves up but not to bring Kenya down”, Munene said on the phone on Thursday. Uganda also re-launched its national airline with an inaugural flight to Nairobi in August, becoming the latest East African nation seeking to revive their aviation industry, after Tanzania. Uganda Prime Minister Ruhakana Rugunda said the airline will fly to Nairobi, Mogadishu, Juba, Dar es Salaam, Mombasa, Kilimanjaro and Bujumbura. Tanzania is also on an aircraft shopping spree in a state-backed revival programme aimed at making Air Tanzania “one of the continent's biggest airlines by 2025”, according to CEO Ladislaus Matindi. However, Kwame Owino of the Institute of Economic Affairs noted Qatar’s entry in the region means KQ will face more competition but said competition is healthy. "The impact will depend on Kenya’s reaction, especially now there is talk about nationalising KQ,” Owino said. A director at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs who didn't want to be quoted said Kenya remains the Big Brother in the region but noted recent developments call for deliberate efforts by MFA and the Ministry of EAC and Regional Development rework on Kenya's regional trade. "Unfortunately, as has been the case in other missions, some of the head of missions in the region were political appointees who have done very little to help Kenya get more opportunities in their host countries," the director said. "Most importantly, however, the government must look into this issue of the cost of power and production because it chasing investors away to our neigbours," he noted. POLITICAL WILL Although EAC and Regional Integration CS Adan Mohamed last week said the plans for one currency are underway and they have set up the East African Monetary Institute as the first step to realising the goal, the political will at the top is under scrutiny. The EAC Heads of Summit scheduled for November 30 in Arusha, Tanzania, was postponed due to a lack of quorum. Notably, this was the second time the summit was postponed, after the 20th Ordinary Meeting of the Summit coincidentally slated for November 30 in Arusha last year was postponed to February this year. The postponement was caused by a lack of quorum caused by Burundi's absence. According to Rule 11 of the Rules of Procedure of the Summit of the EAC Heads of State, a quorum is made of all Partner States (six) representation, which is in consonance with decision making by consensus under Article 12 of the Treaty.