@robertomollo3  More than 860 families from Rangwe and Karachuonyo constituencies in Homa Bay have been displaced by floods after rivers in the areas burst their banks. In Rangwe, River Awach overflew following heavy rain that lasted for days. Those displaced were mainly from Kochia Central, West Kochia and East Kochia locations. The ravaging floodwaters entered homes and destroyed crops in farms that were submerged. Most of those displaced were being housed at Nyarut Primary School. Kochia West chief Joseph Juma said more than 350 families in six villages in his area were displaced. A similar situation was experienced in Kadeka-Wanjara, Kochieng, Landa Nyadundo and Kamaja villages in East Kagan location. Flash floods destroyed crops and entered homes of more than 300 families. Area chief Washington Opiyo said the families were appealing for help after their household items were swept away. “A slowly moving water wetted floors while wind destroyed crops. Fortunately, no life was lost but we appeal for some aide,” Opiyo said. In Karachuonyo, floods destroyed homes in Bala, Kauma and Kawadhgone villages in Kibiri ward. Koyugi location chief Irene Ojwang' said many families had sought alternative shelter after the ravaging floods forced them out of their homes. “The floods marooned mud houses with the walls developing cracks after absorbing water hence endangering lives,” she said. The administrator said crops that were ready for harvesting were swept away by flash floods. Kibiri MCA Michael Odira asked the department of disaster management in Homa Bay county to move with speed and assist the affected families. “The department should send a team to the ground to access the level of damage caused and give advice accordingly,” Odira said. Nyamuthe Foundation Centre patron Joseph Nyamuthe visited some of the affected families and urged the county government to build dykes along River Awach Tende to mitigate flooding in the future. “Floods in parts of Rangwe and Karachuonyo happen annually. There is need for the county government to address the issue permanently,” Nyamuthe said. He said the river burst its banks and displaces families whenever there are heavy rains. “The best solution to this problem is the construction of dykes that can prevent water spillage into dry land.” The foundation donated foodstuff and bedding materials amounting to those displaced.  edited by p. obuya