  The people of Mt Kenya region will oppose the BBI report if it is doctored and other clauses sneaked in, Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua has said. The lawmaker said they will reject the Building Bridges Initiative report if it increases the burden for Kenyans, dilute the one man one vote or create more positions in the Executive. President Uhuru Kenyatta last week met the BBI task force at State House, Nairobi where he requested the team to continue leading the process. The President who was in the company of ODM leader Raila Odinga, thanked the team for putting together a report that 'captured the aspirations of Kenyans'. According to a statement on Thursday morning from State House Spokesperson Kanze Dena, the task force was mandated to steer the next phase of the process. "This will largely involve expanding and guiding public participation and structuring recommendations by Kenyans into implementable action plans," Dena said in the statement. The extension has created fears some clauses could be inserted into the final report. Gachagua on Friday said he hopes the task force will not play games with Kenyans and that they will just clean the document that was unveiled at the Bomas of Kenya last month. He team should fine-tune the report and decide what is for policy to be sent to the Cabinet for implementation and what requires legislation be sent to Parliament and whatever requires a referendum be taken to the people. “What was brought to Bomas is acceptable to us,” Gachagua said. He said Mt Kenya residents were comfortable with the report in its current state. "Previously, we had some reservations about the BBI when we were told it is a tsunami and will do away with one man one vote or create seats for some people," Gachagua said. The MP said the region’s leaders met in Embu, went through the document and realised it was a good report. He said there was a need to hasten the process of passing the BBI and focus taken back to the Big Four agenda. He lauded Uhuru's decision to extend the term of the task force. “We applaud that decision by the President and we urge the team to move with speed. They took one and a half years to do the document and that is too long,” Gachagua said. The MP spoke at Gitunduti village in Magutu ward in his constituency where he celebrated early Christmas with about 80 elderly people.