Kenyans in 33 counties should look out for heavier rains today (Thursday) and tomorrow, the latest forecast warns. Head of Meteorological Department Stella Aura had said the rains would intensify yesterday until Saturday. The intensity would then reduce towards the end of the weekend. The alert is part of the met's increased awareness due to the unusual rains that have killed at least 132 people. Aura said they will provide timely updates in case of unexpected weather changes. "Residents in all the mentioned areas are advised to be on the lookout for potential floods," she said in an advisory sent on her behalf by deputy director David Gikungu. Areas of concern are Narok, Kajiado, Bomet, Kericho, Nakuru, Migori, Nyamira, Kisii, Homa Bay, Kisumu, Siaya, Busia, West Pokot, Uasin Gishu, Baringo and Nandi. Others are Trans Nzoia, Bungoma, Kakamega, Elgeyo Marakwet, Nairobi, Nyeri, Embu, Meru Laikipia, Kiambu, Nyandarua, Murang’a, Kitui, Taita Taveta, Machakos and Makueni. "Residents are advised to avoid driving through or walking in moving water or open fields and not to shelter under trees and near grilled windows to minimize exposure to lightning strikes," she noted. Aura reiterated that people in landslide prone areas especially over the slopes of the Aberdare ranges, Mt Kenya and other hilly areas over the Western region should be on high alert. The ongoing rainfall is expected to continue throughout the month with occasional breaks. Rain-triggered disasters, including flash floods and landslides, have killed at least 132 people and affected 330,000 others across the country since October. More than 43 people died two weeks ago in West Pokot and the continued heavy rains are hampering relief efforts in far-flung areas of Northern, Western and Eastern Kenya. Despite warnings that the heavy rains are set to continue until the end of the month, thousands of people in 32 counties are resisting pleas to abandon their homes and properties, which are slowly being marooned by floodwaters. Some of the villages could also be destroyed by landslides. Approximately 330,000 people are already adversely affected by the heavy rains, which began in October and intensified at the end of November. Floods and landslides have displaced 17,000 people from their homes and killed 132 since October, the government spokesman Cyrus Oguna told journalists in Nairobi on Tuesday. He defended the Meteorological Department, saying its forecasts are highly accurate but Kenyans refuse to take them seriously. "They are dead accurate, and they use the most sophisticated equipment. They also give the forecasts on time. The current rains were predicted in October, but when we tell people to move, they do not," he said.