Kenya is set to host its first carbon neutral festival in Africa during this year Kilifi Festival. The Festival, which is in its fourth year, has announced that the multicultural event will be carbon-offset for the very first time. Carbon-neutral events seeks to minimise emissions through comprehensive environmental efforts. To achieve this, the organisers are working in partnership with Finnish company Neste, which enables energy production for the event from renewable fuels, enabling the festival to reduce its total carbon footprint. By using Neste renewable diesel to generate power, the event will be able to reduce greenhouse gas emissions of up to 90 per cent compared to traditional diesel fuel. The organisers have also partnered with Kenyan - based company, Wildlife Works in offsetting emissions through their Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation project. "Kilifi New Year offsetting its emissions with Wildlife Works contributes towards the protection of dryland forest, the conservation of Wildlife, community empowerment, and the creation of jobs in multiple sustainable industries," says Kilifi Festival Marketing Manager Melisa Kayanda. She says about 64 tonne(s) of CO2 offset will go towards Kasigau Wildlife Corridor Project. The festival will run from December 30 to January 2, 2020 with over 50 artists expected to grace three stages. Among the international artists include Osunlade (US), Afshin (FR). Seth Schwarz (DE), Kampire (UG), Faizal Mostrixx (UG), and Electic Shamba (UK). Some of the headlining local acts include Blinky Bill, Karun, Barak Jacuzzi, Vallerie Muthoni, Ochungulo Family among others. Djs expected on the show, include Jack Rooster, Coco Em, Dj Paps, Dj Raph among others. "Apart from the music, the attendees will also experience multicultural, with discussions of exchanging Ideas, at the Kilifi New Year University. The University is a hub facilitating round- table discussions touching on current issues such as Climate Emergency, LGBTQ Rights, Racism, Feminism and many more," Kayanda added.