President Uhuru Kenyatta launched a mass registration of Kenyans into the National Integrated Identity Management System-NIIMS, better known as Huduma Namba on April 2 in Machakos county. The mass registration was to take 45 days with a target of capturing 40 million Kenyans on the system. The Sh7.5 billion project was among the government drives which opposition leaders rallied behind. Deputy President William Ruto was not in the list of top officials during the launch as he was hosting a delegation from Cuba in his Karen office. Orange Democratic leader Raila Odinga launched the registration exercise at Likoni, Mombasa. Raila said the exercise was suitable for the government and called upon those who had double minds about the exercise to change their perspective. ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi and Kalonzo Musyoka of Wiper Movement party were not left out in launching the exercise. The same exercise was also rolled out in Kenyan embassies in the diaspora. Why Huduma Namba? The rollout was to have Kenyans' data captured in biometric kits and have data under a single national conservator. The process was also to enable the government to deliver its services to Kenyans efficiently and to ensure that its plans are effective. The government said that the database would inform planning for equitable resource allocation necessary for national development initiatives and key decision making. Among these are the Big Four Agenda which are food security, affordable housing, manufacturing, and affordable healthcare. During the launch, Uhuru said that the government discovered 5,000 ghost workers in the Kenya Police Service who had been cashing salaries amounting to Sh148 million from the government. The government said once huduma namba was rolled out, Kenyans would be speared from carrying multiple identification cards as they seek services at the government's offices. It was also meant to reduce cases of identity theft and to secure financial transactions. Huduma Namba obstacles Before the exercise was launched, Kenya National Commission on Human Rights, Kenya Human Rights Commission, and Nubian Rights Forum had moved to court seeking the suspension of the collection of data from Kenyans under NIIMS. Their case was dismissed by the court but it gave directives that people should not be compelled to be captured in the system. The court also said no one was to be forced to register in the system as a condition for receiving citizen services and facilities. During the launch, the President was quick to respond to those who were against the exercise, saying that they were not sincere, adding that they were benefiting from the loopholes which were to be discovered once everyone's data had been captured on the system. KHRC moved to court to block the rollout of the piloting programme that had been planned to be done in 15 counties. The commission said Huduma Namba functions the same way as the Integrated Population Registration System which is already working. A pastor from Bungoma and his followers refused to register, citing that the process was satanic, as did a church in Mombasa which quoted the Bible, alleging that huduma namba was similar to the number 666 as prophesied by Apostle John. The apostle said the code would be assigned to Satan's agents on earth. Another sect in Tharaka Nithi by the name of Kabonokia declined to take part in the huduma namba registration. Huduma Namba figures out After the closure of the mass registration, the government through its spokesperson Cyrus Oguna said that 36 million Kenyans had given their details. The outcome was four million less than what the government had projected. But the government did not close the registration process, saying that people who were left out during the mass registration should visit chiefs in their offices to be registered. No cards yet as concerned ministry goes for more cash The exercise came to an end in May and Kenyans are still waiting to be issued with tags/huduma namba cards. During the registration, each person was  issued with an acknowledgment slip to indicate that his/her data had been captured. The government said the same slip would later be used when huduma namba cards were ready. In November, the Interior Ministry sought Parliament’s approval of Sh1 billion more for printing Huduma Namba cards. The ministry said that the money will be spent on the second component of the National Integrated Identity Management System (NIIMS). The same ministry, later on, dismissed the report that it had asked for more cash after spending Sh6 billion. Interior PS Karanja Kibicho said that they were asking their rightful money which had not been transacted to their account. "For the avoidance of doubt, I wish to reiterate that no money has been requested or budgeted for the printing of Huduma Namba cards in the current financial year," PS Kibicho said. He said the Treasury had released Sh5.5 billion and that the balance was to be released in the subsequent financial year, which is the current period. Kibicho said the balance will be used to pay 50,000 clerks for working for eight extra days when the government announced the extension.