Life just got a lot harder for Joseph Irungu, alias Jowie, after he was transferred to Manyani Maximum Security Prison in Voi. According to a senior officer who requested anonymity for fear of reprisal, Jowie was transferred from Kamiti to Manyani prisons last Friday after he was found with contraband during a random search. "Jowie was moved from Kamiti to Manyani on Friday. I cannot say  more than that,"the officer said on Monday. The Commissioner general for prisons, when contacted, said he was held up in a meeting. Jowie will be spending his second Christmas behind bars as the court is set to rule on his bail application on February 13, 2020. Jowie was arrested on September 25 last year and spent Christmas in remand. In June 18, 2019, the High Court declined to grant Jowie bail for the second time. Justice James Wakiaga dismissed Irungu’s application for bail review on grounds that it was premature and lacked merit. The judge directed that everyone placed under witness protection testify first before he can consider Irungu’s bail application review. He further ordered for a social inquiry to be done by the probation office on the accused. Jowie had applied for a review of his bail after the High Court rejected his earlier application on grounds he is a flight risk. The murder trial against him and journalist Jacque Maribe will resume in March 2020. On November 28, Maribe's house help took the court through the events of the night Jowie shot himself. Pamela Kembo also told the court that Jowie used to take Maribe to work on a regular basis and then return home, mostly to sleep. Kembo told a Milimani court that after dropping Maribe to work, Jowie would routinely return to the house and later in the evening he would pick her from work. Jowie had applied for a review of his bail after the High Court rejected his earlier application on grounds he is a flight risk. Pamela Kembo also told the court that Jowie used to take Maribe to work on a regular basis and then return home, mostly to sleep.