The Nairobi government says it has cleared Sh4.2 billion of pending bills and wants the National Treasury to release the equitable share so it can make more payments. Finance executive Pauline Kahiga on Wednesday said the equitable share plays a critical role in planning what the county needs so they know the amount to allocate to pending bills. "The National Treasury should release the funds so we can plan accordingly on how payments are done. We followed the President's directive and paid some of the pending bills so it won't be fair if funds are not released," she told the Star. According to the Treasury, Nairobi tops with a pending bill of Sh8.2 billion, a figure Governor Mike Sonko disputed. He wants another verification conducted early next year for payments to be done. Last month, Treasury CS Ukur Yatani warned that counties that did not clear the bills on goods and services delivered would be denied funding. But City Hall said it inherited Sh66 billion pending bills. Sonko suspects that some were fictitious given the history of "people supplying air to Nairobi before”. As a result, in March last year, the county chief appointed former EACC boss Patrick Lumumba to head a 10-member taskforce to audit the pending bills and recommend which ones to pay. All suppliers and contractors were asked to submit their bills to the committee. Of the claimed sum, only Sh23 billion was found legitimate. Kahiga said the Auditor General did a further audit and out of the Sh23 billion, only Sh11. 7 billion was found to be authentic. In October and November, Sh2 billion statutory payments were made by the county to the Kenya Revenue Authority. City Hall says it is committed to paying an additional Sh1 billion before the year ends. "As a county, we've not refused to pay the pending bills, but just as our governor said, we will only pay legit and verified pending bills," Kahiga said. A supplementary budget has yet to be brought to the county assembly. "We've allocated Sh3.55 billion towards the pending bills and once the assembly comes from recess in February next year, we are optimistic it will be passed to allow us to make some payments," Kahiga said. City Hall has maintained that the national government owes it Sh400 billion and is its biggest debtor. As a result, the county is pushing for a debt swap to be included in a financial recovery plan with the national government. "Since we owe the national government and they owe us as well, we saw it was best we agree on a financial recovery plan and conversation had embarked back in 2018. We are positive that through consultation, both governments shall agree on the payments," Kahiga added. (Edited by F'Orieny)