ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi has said he will be on the ballot in the next election. Mudavadi said those who will be seeking to form a coalition with him should do so bearing in mind he will be the flag bearer of that coalition. He spoke at Mudavadi Girls Mungoma ward in Vihiga subcounty during the homecoming party for Mungoma MCA Wycliffee Masini. Mudavadi decried the economic crisis the country is going through at the moment. “Factories that have been serving as our economic pillars are now crippled leaving us in poverty," he said. "Mumias is gone. Pan Paper now has remained in the books of history while for Muhoroni and Chemelil, theirefate is not known. "We are left with the option of begging. We need to work as a team to protect our economy" He said the Uhuru Kenyatta government had failed the people and citizens can't afford to make the same mistake come 2022. Mudavadi said the country's economy was ruined by wrong decisions made at the ballot. Corruption should be fought to protect the public resources, Mudavadi said. Ata different function, Senate Speaker Ken Lusaka said poverty was the reason Western cannot clinch the top seat. "We need a strong economic base that will help us clinch the presidential seat,"  Lusaka said. "Those in power are supported fully by their communities. They understand the importance of power and they are financially stable to fund their candidates," he said. "We only pin down our leaders for handouts. We don't build them for the top seat." He called for Luhya unity for political success. "Even twins are born on the same day but there must be a firstborn and the last born whether we like or not," said Lusaka. He said Western leaders should develop strong financial muscle, unite and support one candidate for the top seat. Lusaka said those eyeing the seat must command votes within their reach so that they can convince other communities to vote for them. “When you are a leader and you don't have followers don't waste time. You can't negotiate on the table,” Lusaka said. If we are not going to form the government then those who are willing must form it with us."