WHAT APPEARED TO be an innocent picture of First Lady Margaret Kenyatta and Ida Odinga posing with branded T-shirts for the launch of the Beyond Zero 2020 Half Marathon has assumed a political angle with some leaders questioning who gave Ida a T-shirt branded 0022. According to the politicians, mainly from Tangatanga, the choice of 0022 engraved on Ida’s jersey is a strong political statement, especially for 2022 elections and should not be taken lightly at a time when the President is in a cordial relationship with the opposition. Are our politicians reading too much? A CABINET SECRETARY and his wife are in the middle of a brewing storm in an organisation bringing together the wives of one of the wings of the disciplined forces. A source has told Corridors that the CS and the overbearing wife have hijacked the noble initiative of the women. The source says that the CS is doing all he can to have his wife as the face of the initiative. The women are now coy about the end game of the programme, with many contemplating giving it a wide berth, saying it is a springboard for the wife of the CS to thrust herself into the political arena. The disenchanted widows are wary of being used as political guinea pigs to kickstart the charitable event should the husband survive the murky political terrain he’s wading into. A CITY MCA got himself in unfamiliar situation after residents ganged up and told him off over his constant criticism of his predecessor’s record. The middle-aged MCA got the shock of his life when angry residents cut short his speech minutes after he started discrediting his predecessor over a road, which according to him is narrow and thin to cost the millions that were allegedly allocated. According to residents, the MCA has no development record to write home about since his election in 2017 – not even a footpath. A FORMER GOVERNOR, who lost in the last election, is said to be behind the chaos in the county, especially the growing rift between the executive and the assembly. The ex-governor, known for his strong financial muscle, is said to be bankrolling a section of MCAs to make the county ungovernable for reasons only known to him. The former county boss is said to be holding a series of meetings with a section of the reps where the plot to destabilise the county government is always the main topic. Last weekend, the politician hosted MCAs at one of his lavish apartments in the outskirts of a town for a strategy meeting, after which they pocketed Sh5 million for operations.