A 34-year old mother of six who dropped out of school 20 years ago due to lack of fees scored a C+ of 52 points in this year's KSCE. Florence Muia, despite staying home since 1999 and leading a married life, is optimistic that she will finally be able to join university and actualize her dream of becoming a lawyer. She sat her examination at Nzulini Secondary School in Mwingi West, which she joined in 2016 after receiving an educational sponsorship. Muia had a C in English, B- in Kiswahili, D in mathematics, B- in Biology, D+ in Chemistry, A- in CRE, A in History and B in Business Studies. Speaking to journalists at her home in Thaana Nzau village in Mwingi West, Muia attributed her good performance to years of hard work, discipline and support from her teachers, fellow students and husband. "No one ever beat me since Form 1 to Form 4. I always came number one and also happened to be appointed as the schools headgirl in my last year," she cheerfully narrated. She however said it was not easy to juggle schooling and parenting despite the support she had from her husband and children. "At some point my husband fell sick. I was the one to take charge of all household duties including fending for the family while still schooling. It was one of my painful moments," she said. She regretted that lack of fees had cut short her dream of getting secondary education thereby forcing her to get married two years later after completing primary education. "I come from a poor family, being raised by a single mother who could not afford to take me to secondary school. All hope was lost. I eventually got married and started a family," said Muia. She had scored 483 out of the possible 700 marks in her KCPE. "But in 2016 our woman MP Irene Kasalu offered to take me back to school, rekindling my desire for further studies. She has been supporting me through the National Government Affirmative Action Fund (NGAAF) and I'm really grateful," she revealed. She urged the government to initiate sponsorship programme for the many poor drop outs who would wish to further their studies.