The on-going dredging of Kisumu port will be extended to Sio Port and Port Victoria in Busia County, former Prime Minister Raila Odinga has said. Raila said  the same exercise will be extended to Yala, Nyando and Sondu Miriu among other areas which are prone to floods. He was speaking at Marenga Beach in Port Victoria where he graced the annual Bunyala Cultural Festivals on Christmas Eve. "We have talked at length with Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni and his Tanzanian counterpart John Magufuli  on the need to open up the lake to promote the blue economy of the region, thus creating youth employment," he said. He further stated that the deployment of Coast guards to patrol the Lake in Bunyala and Samia is meant to ensure security of Kenyan fishermen. Raila advised the Ugandan Government to cultivate the culture of respect following constant harassment incidences in which Uganda security personnel intimidate Kenyan fishermen in Lake Victoria. On the Building Bridges Initiative, the former PM said the documents will be subjected to panel beating  before it goes for a referendum. Busia Deputy Governor Moses Mulomi said the urgent completion of the ring road around Lake Victoria will open up the Lake region. He noted that there is need for concerted efforts by Kenya and Uganda governments to find an amicable solution to end the constant harassment of Kenyan fishermen by Ugandan security personnel. "The state of Kisian-Busia road remains in pathetic state, its urgent dualization will help boost the economy of the border which has 40 per cent of trade passing through it," the DG said. Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa said the dredging of River Nzoia would help in checking constant back flow of water as permanent dykes are put to protect irrigation infrastructure. Members of parliament Oundo Mudenyo (Funyula), Jared Okello (Nyando), Opiyo Wandayi (Ugunja) and Raphael Wanjala (Budalang'i) lauded Raila and President Uhuru Kenyatta for the BBI report. They said will pass the taste of time with a few amendments including the requirement that the Governor and his deputy must be people of opposite sex. Others present included Siaya Deputy Governor James Okumbe, Bukooli South Island MP George Abottand Bunyala Deputy County Commissioner Jacob Ruto.