2019 was marked a number of tragedies that shook the country to its core and with it claimed many Kenyan lives along the way. But with tragedy came a united country as it as Kenyans came together to cope with the tremendous pain and suffering. Here are but some of the tragedies which included yet again the ugly side of terror; The Dusit D2 terror attack. Just a few days after ushering in the new year, terrorists once again struck the country's capital. At least 21 people were killed when Al shabaab militants stormed the Dusit D2 complex in Nairobi on January 15. The terror attack was initially reported as explosions and gunshots outside the 14 Riverside complex in Wetlands Nairobi. Five Al shaabab attackers arrived at the scene in two vehicles as seen on CCTV footage. One of the attackers blew himself up next to Secret Garden restaurant After the blasts, the remaining terrorists shoot at guards to open gates to the Riverside Drive. They unleashed random gunfire and lobby grenades as they entered the complex. Several parked vehicles were set ablaze as the terrorists made their way into the building. For hours between January 15 and 16, the terrorists held hostage occupants of the hotel while killing 21 and injuring others. The attack triggered a 19-hour security operation to rescue survivors Al-Shabaab claimed responsibility for the attack in a statement that was released during the attack. They claimed that the attack was "a response to US President Donald Trump's decision to recognise Jerusalem as the capital of Israel". Parties involved in rescue operation include The recce company, the anti-terrorism department of the Kenya Police, General Service Unit and members of private security forces. More than 700 people were saved from the building, as four of the al Shabaab militia were gunned down. A Kenya Defence Force officer was killed in the process while others slightly injured. Even though the hotel is now fully operational, some victims have said it can never be business as usual for them. Likoni Ferry tragedy On September 29, a  Toyota ISIS registration number KCB 289C carrying mother and child veered off from a ferry and plugged into the Indian Ocean. The victims identified as Mariam Kigenda, 35, and her four-year-old daughter Amanda Mutheu,   died after their car slid from the rear of MV Harambee just before it docked on the Island side Likoni OCPD Benjamin Rotich said that ferry officials attempted to throw out rescue savers near the car, but the two were trapped inside the car and could not access them on the day of the tragedy. The tragedy exposed how disjointed state agencies are in coordinating rescue operations. There were reports that the Ferry Services lacks skilled divers or specialized equipment to handle marine disasters. Government spokesman Cyrus Oguna gave daily updates of recovery operations through the media cautious enough not to raise false hopes. Search and recovery operations started at 9 am and closed at 6 pm since day one of the searches. Some days, retrieval operations were forced to be called off earlier than usual due to bad weather and strong currents. Oguna claimed that the car could not be retrieved on that day since high-speed undercurrents made it impossible to tie the vehicle and pull it up. On October 11, the car was finally retrieved and bodies of mother and child found dead in a tight embrace on the back seat. The 13- day search was finally called off. Kigenda and Mutheu were finally laid to rest in Murang'a village, Kilome Constituency, Makueni county. West Pokot Landslide This is one of the deadliest recent landslide disasters in 2019. More than 53 people perished while some 10, 000 displaced in a landslide in West Pokot county. The landslide which occurred on November 23 was a consequence of the heavy rainfall that resulted in flooding and land weakness in the area. More people were reported missing as the government urged residents to evacuate. Dismembered bodies were recovered five to ten kilometres away from the scene of the landslide. Governor John Lonyangapuo described the landslide as the worst disaster that has happened in the region. He reported massive destruction of property worth millions of shillings that would require Sh2 billion to repair. Many families reported the death of more than one member to the landslide. Military choppers were used to air relief food and medical supplies to the survivors. Precious Talent Academy classroom collapse. This was by far the most emotionally devastating tragedy for many Kenyans especially parents. Seven pupils died and 59 injured when a faulty classroom collapsed on them on September 23. St John's Ambulance Communications manager Fred Majiwa said the innocent children died mostly of suffocation. The two-story building made of iron sheets and wood collapsed while the pupils were learning in the lower classes. As bodies were being removed from the rubble, parents who had reached the scene were seen wailing. The Secretary of the National Building Inspectorate termed the construction of the wall that collapsed as a deathtrap. It resulted in the shutdown of many schools that were considered unfit for learning. The principal of the school Freshia Maingi was charged for manslaughter alongside other officials from the Dagoretti. The death of these innocent children could have been avoided if individuals involved were responsible enough to foresee the tragedy. A parent who lost a child claimed the classroom was visibly on the verge of collapse yet the heads of the school ignore the signs.