Tangatanga allied political leaders from Gusii and Kuria regions have thrown their weight behind the Building Bridges Initiative report. They however called for the creation of two additional counties, one in Kisii (Gucha) and and the other, Kuria in Migori. Speaking in Kisii the group said they have no misgivings with the report which they termed as "good and reflecting the aspirations of the majority Kenyans." They said whatever the route, the report will go through to merit the approval of common Mwananchi. It is good that it takes into consideration the view of Wanjiku. "Having tentatively read the report and analysed in view of what it offers Kenya's transformation agenda, we lend our support," Kisii Deputy Governor Joash Maangi, who read the report on the team's behalf said . The group however ruled that the copies of the report are yet to be circulated widely to reach more Kenyans to read it before they pass their verdict on it. The MPs praised the report in its current form saying it would help galvanize the country together. They however appeared to waver it to go to Parliament for approval or be subjected to a plebiscite. "The constitution provides the avenues through which constitutional amendments can be done in Kenya, through parliament or referendum, subject to thresholds provided by the supreme law. We therefore direct that elements of the report be subjected to the parliamentary route, and where applicable, the referendum," the leaders said. They rooted for Wanjiku's voice adding that her verdict should be at the centre of the narrative being built around the BBI report. "Precaution should be taken to ensure by the process is inclusive and representatives as expressed in the spirit of the constitution and that it should be geared towards serving the interests of the common Mwananchi not the elites," stated the leaders. Among those present were Kisii Deputy Governor Joash Maangi, MPs Joash Nyamoko ( North Mugurango),Silvanus Osoro ( South Mugirango), Alfa Miruka ( Bomachoge Chache ), Shadrach Mose ( Kitutu Masaba) and Innocent Obiri (Bobasi). Others were Kuria MP's Mathis Robi ( Kuria West,) and Marua Kitayama ( Kuria East). Dozens of Pro-DP William Ruto from Kisii and Nyamira counties were present. The leaders said perchance a body of experts is to be constituted they want that each Kenyans is given fair chance to articulate their views. Speaking of the need for more counties, Deputy Governor Maangi said effective representation is not about the geographical morphing up of tribes into conglomerates but" effective service delivery." "In that regard the people of Kuria and those of Gucha in Kisii are underrepresented. We therefore request that Kuria be hived off Migori and Gucha off Kisii to create independent Counties," he said. He said the question regarding the creation of these additional devolved units should be included in if a referendum is to be held. The Kuria leaders said they had been crying foul for not getting enough of devolution benefits the region currently being part of the larger Migori County currently. The leaders further spoke of the need to strengthen the war on graft but rejected witch hunt. "As we support it we want that it be done within the law and without malice," said the statement by the political leaders. Maangi spoke for the need by the region to have the airport to be set in Kisii to spur the agricultural economy through air transportation. MPs Robi and Marwa said Kuria in its current form as a county is not reaping the fruits of devolution owing to its annexation to Migori County. They said it is time the annexation was rethought so that they can be independent and get funds to accelerate the development of the region. Marua said small tribes like Teso and Kuria in the country are often bypassed in the allocation of national resources. "It should not be that the big five tribes are allowed on the table to eat first and then we are told to scramble for the morsels yet we pay tax just like any body else," said Marua. Wards Reps through Kisii County Assembly leader James Ondari asked that funds be trickled to ward levels to help spur development in the wards.