Parents have been told to change their mindset about Technical, Vocational Education and Training institutions and enrol their children n the "now-vibrant" TVET sector. Education CS Fred Magoha also said on Wednesday that those students who have not qualified for university should seek admission to middle-level colleges. “We cannot all have degrees. You need a skill that will give you an edge even without papers from a higher education institution," he said. The CS spoke while releasing the 2019 KCSE exam results. Magoha said during 667,222 candidates sat the examination, including 355,782 boys, 341,440 girls — near gender parity. “This trend should give hope to our low KCPE performers that they have a chance to do much better at the KCSE level. It also means the government’s push for 100 per cent transition policy from primary to secondary school makes a lot of sense,” he said. The number of candidates who attained a mean grade of A Plain this year rose to 627 from 315 candidates in 2018. Similarly, the number of candidates attaining the mean grade of A- has shot up to 5,796 from 3,417 in 2018. Overall, the number of candidates with the minimum university entry qualification of a mean grade of C plus and above in 2019 is 125,746, compared with 90,377 in the 2018 KCSE examination — a difference of 35,369. Magoha said the government wants youth to proceed to their next level of learning without delay. “I am therefore asking the Kenya Universities and Colleges Central Placement Service to immediately put in place mechanisms to start placing the 2019 KCSE examination candidates in the various courses they are qualified for. I particularly wish to encourage Kenyans to allow their youth to pursue courses in the now- vibrant TVET sector,” the CS said. This year's students have performed better than those in the last three years, Magoha said, meaning teachers are now preparing students better and learners can now study hard knowing that the playing field is level. He took issue with families who marry off girls who score low marks, while boys are sent to menial jobs on the grounds that they are academic dwarfs. “Today, I wish to debunk this outdated myth because of our analysis of how individual candidates who scored as little as 177 [in KCPE] ended up scoring top grades in the KCSE. This is one story of extreme hope and encouragement, especially in view of the new government policy of allowing all KCPE candidates to join Form 1,” he said.