President Uhuru Kenyatta has said he is easily irritated by stupid actions or talks from leaders. "Unajua natoboa wengine wanasema ninakasirika,nakasirika kuona ujinga.(When I talk people think am angry.I am angry when I see stupidity),"he said. "Ukiona vile wengine wanaongea ama vile wanafanya unashangaa kama tunaishi kenya moja ama wako dunia nyingine(When you hear some leaders speak or behave you may think they leave in a different world)." The president spoke on Sunday at   St. Francis of Assis  Parish Church in Ruiru, Kiambu County. Uhuru said that what the leaders know best is to talk about succession politics rather than focus on developing the country. "Wanasema kazi yao ni kuongea.Tupange ya leo ya kesho tutaganga.(Lets focus on current issues and the future will fall to place),"he said. He urged Kenyans to maintain peace and unity saying the two are key determinants of national development. He said a strong and progressive nation is determined by its people working together in unity and therefore urged Kenyans to strengthen the family unit as the foundation of a cohesive nation. “If the country is built on good family values especially those that lay emphasis on unity, peace and love, then it will prosper but if it doesn't focus on these values it will not grow,” Uhuru said. He said through unity, Kenyans will be able to solve the challenges they face and called for continuous pursuit of peace that ensures all people exist in harmony with each other. The President who gave his personal donation of Sh 3 million to the construction of the new church building assured the country of his solid commitment to the ongoing fight against corruption. He  asked leaders to stop politicising the war on graft and  urged Kenyans to join hands and fighting corruption which he said is the greatest impediment to the country's growth. “Please let us not politicize the war on corruption. When an individual is stealing public resources he doesn’t do so on behalf of his family or community. Therefore, anyone who is implicated should carry their own cross,” the President said. He said as a country which adheres to the rule of law, all institutions mandated to lead the war on graft will not be interfered with and that everyone will be presumed innocent until proven guilty in the court of law. “As a nation which observes the rule of law, we should allow our institutions mandated to deal with corruption to do their work independently and ensure all suspects are treated equally.” The mass was also attended by acting Kiambu Governor James Nyoro among other national and local leaders.