 The 13 Baringo divers locally admired for their dare-devil rescue missions have a reason to smile after Governor Stanley Kiptis promised them jobs. The Cheploch gorge divers will be absorbed to strengthen the county's disaster department. The governor spoke during the burial of the K24 journalist Daniel Chemjor, who died on November 20 when his car plunged into the gorge on the 20-foot deep River Kerio. The river marks the boundary of Baringo and Elgeyo-Marakwet counties. Chemjor was laid to rest at his Kiboino home in Baringo Central on Saturday. “The young men have been instrumental in rescuing people and retrieving bodies not only in the North Rift region but the entire country. Their feat should not go unrewarded,” Kiptis said. The divers located and retrieved Chemjor's body in less than an hour. “We will also award them with special kits for use during their missions,” the governor said and promised to register the divers with NHIF. The divers, who are led by Philemon Kemeboi, had after retrieving the journalist's body on November 21,  appealed to the government to employ them. They started offering voluntary services in 2013. “It is sad that we are only remembered during times of disaster and thereafter forgotten and left to struggle on our own. We now need employment,” Kemeboi said. The divers live in makeshift grass-thatch sheds near Cheploch gorge, eking a living by entertaining local and international tourists. “We usually charge Sh500 per head to showcase our diving skills in the crocodile-infested river, but of late the business has slack as the number of visitors diminishes,” Kemeboi said. Baringo leaders said Chemjor will be remembered as a generous down-to-earth person. "His death is not only a blow to his family but the entire county," Kiptis said and promised that his government will work closely with widow Magdaline. He will also employ Chemjor's brother, who is a plumber. Chemjor is survived by children Judith, Jepchirchir, Cynthia, Arnold Kiptoo, Caesar Kipruto and baby Caleb Kipsang. The burial was attended by Eldama Ravine MP Moses Lessonet, national ICT director John Sergon, Baringo Speaker David Kiplagat, County Finance executive Richard Rotich and former Kabarnet-Soi MCA Johana Chebon. “Although I did not get the chance to interact with him, Chemjor was a good man,” Lessonet said.