An organisation that champions the rights of widows wants them respected, honoured and supported. The Daughters of Hope in Meru, a community-based association founded in 2007, regretted that many widows suffer rights abuses and economic hardship.  It cited financial constraints, loss of land to grabbers, loss of matrimonial homes to in-laws, being associated with irresponsible myths and misconceptions, and being condemned to a hopeless environment of neglect. Group chairperson Christine Muchungi, who lost her husband 11 years ago, said they came together to initiate projects that would change their lives. Thus far 30 widows have registered. “I'm currently facing five cases, being accused of taking away my matrimonial land. We bought this land with my husband but my sisters-in-law have descended on me. I've even been presented before the Njuri Ncheke Supreme Council of Elders," Muchungi said. "We live in a community of betrayal. The death of husbands does not invoke rivalry but we demand respect and support. We have a lady here who was chased away by family after the demise of her husband. She is living on land the church acquired for her along the road. There are other challenges like lack of fees." She spoke during their annual retreat at Olive Gardens in North Imenti. Muchungi appealed to other widows to join the group for more exposure, so together they conquer their problems. Each year, they meet to console each other, participate in community projects, invite counsellors for advice, pray and support one another socially and economically. Secretary-general Susan Kaimuri said they initiated table banking and merry-go-round to save money to support their projects. Because of that, some of them now have goats, chickens and household items. Ciamboroki M'Imathiu, an elderly member, and Kaimuri urged national and county governments to establish a kitty which should be channelled to vulnerable widows. Recently, Igembe South MP John Paul Mwirigi made a similar plea in a proposal that requires the government to establish a fund for widows empowerment. He said such an initiative would contribute towards ending rights abuses and enable the women to fix the squalid conditions in which they live with their families. In a statement at the chambers on Wednesday, Mwirigi expressed concern that many widows face numerous problems, including loss of income and property. “Widows suffer insecurity, economic hardship, social discrimination, degrading treatment as well as physical and mental abuse,” he said. “The challenges could be mitigated by providing them with alternative sources of income that would afford them a level of liberty and dignity in their lives." The fund's allocation would be set by the Budget National Assembly committee. Mwirigi wants the government to classify widows as a disadvantaged group as justification for creating the Widows Fund. Should the proposal go through, the widows will no doubt relish the moment. (Edited by F'Orieny)