Wajir county commissioner Loyford Kibaara has warned government officials against demanding money from residents listed as refugees. Some local officers had been accused of collecting money from those whose fingerprints were illegally captured on the refugee database under the guise that they would fast-track the process of removing their names from the system. Thousands of Kenyans registered as refugees in the early 1990s to get help from the UNHCR. Over the years, however, the goodies have diminished following plans to close down the vast refugee camps in Dadaab that have more than 600,000 people — the majority being citizens of neighbouring war-torn Somalia. The delisting is, therefore, meant to clean the database. According to the UNHCR, at least 40,000 Kenyans are on their database. The exercise also offers an opportunity to refugees who illegally acquired Kenyan ID cards to surrender them. It was launched mid-last month by internal security CAA Patrick ole Ntutu at Garissa Primary School. "Last week while in my office, I overheard a group of disgruntled victims who were complaining that their money had been taken by some government officials, including a chief, with the promise that they would fast-track the entire exercise for them," he said. "Even though no one has officially complained, it is obvious this is happening. Those doing this should immediately stop. Otherwise, they will only have themselves to blame. Members of the public should also stop giving out money because it is free." Kabaara spoke on Thursday in Wajir Stadium during Jamhuri Day celebrations. He urged those who have not been vetted to take advantage of the two-week extension and avail themselves. Slightly more than 2,500 victims have been vetted and their fingerprints successfully removed from the database. Affected subcounties are Habaswein, Wajir Town, Wajir East and Wajir West. Kibaara urged chiefs, their assistants and the imams in charge of mosques across the county to ensure the information reaches those who have not been vetted. "We have requested a two-week extension after we realised there were quite a number of victims who had not been vetted. We have been given up to 31st this month... This is a serious exercise and they must take this message seriously." (Edited by F'Orieny)