All Africa Games 1,500 champion Quailyne Kiprop was the star as she struck a rare double during the fourth and penultimate round of Athletics Kenya cross country series at Kapsokwony High School over the weekend. As she focuses to represent the country at the 2020 Olympic Games in Tokyo, Japan and Africa Cross Country championships in Lome, Togo, Kiprop first won the 10km senior women's race before anchoring her Torongo Camp to the mixed relays title. In her first race, Kiprop lacked a serious challenger, stepping into the lead with just 4km and opened a wide gap to win in 36:28.2. “I am using these local races as part of my preparations for the 2020 Olympic Games and Africa Cross Country. I know the journey won’t be a walk in the park but hard work that I know will pay,” said Kiprop, who is targeting to be the next 1,500 track star. She defeated Josephine Jelagat and Jackline Adudonyang to second and third positions in 36:57.34 and 37:00.00 respectively. In relays, Justus Soget set off the tempo that could not be matched then handed the button to Kiprop widened the gap further, leaving Geoffrey Rono and Josephine Wanjiku with the ease task of bringing the baton home with the race already won at the halfway stage in a repeat of the Ol Kalau display a week ago. Kenneth Kiprop registered the second win of his career. The 23-year-old said: “My journey to this win has not been easy. I have struggled a lot to be where I am with athletics.” He crossed the finish line in 31:26 ahead of Simon Letaya (31:31) with Kennedy Kipyego completing the podium in 31:38. In the 8km race, Charles Kakuri clinched title ahead of Samuel Kibet and Felix Kibet while Winnie Kimutai defended her 6km crown. “I want to major in 10,000, which am good at and make sure I secure good results in future as I represent my country,” said the Chewoyet-based Kakuri. Kimutai from Kapsait training camp under coach Erick Kimaiyo retained her junior title in 21:36 ahead of Beatrice Cheburet and Irene Chepkorir. “My target is to run for Kenya at the Africa Cross Country for the first time,” said the Form Two student at Kapsait Secondary School.