Religious leaders and Embu Senator Njeru Ndwiga have been urged to intervene and end the feud between Governor Martin Wambora and MCAs. Former senate seat aspirant Alexander Mundigi and Wambora’s political adviser Albert Kigoro told the senator, the clergy and four MPs to look for ways of ending the infighting between the governor and the ward representatives. The four are Woman Representative Jane Wanjuki, MPs John Muchiri (Manyatta), Muriuki Njagagua (Mbeere North) and Geoffrey Kingangi (Mbeere South). Mundigi, who unsuccessfully vied for Embu senator in 2017, spoke at Njarange Anglican Church of Kenya in Mbeere North on Sunday when he donated uniforms for Sunday school children. He was accompanied by Kigoro. Mundigi said Wambora and the assembly have been fighting for over seven years and this has greatly hurt the development. “I advise the governor and the county assembly to bury the hatchet and each side should accept to swallow its pride and iron out their differences for the sake of Wanjiku,” he said. On Jamhuri Day, Wambora accused ward representatives’ of interfering with his two terms administration. “MCAs should do the work of legislation, representation of the people and oversight. I'm okay with that. But the moment you want to do the work of governor mtaona cha mtema Kuni (you shall face dire consequences). You know that I am a man of action," the county boss said. "I cannot allow the work of the governor, the work of the executive, my directors and my ministers to be threatened by MCAs. This should stop.” Kigoro, however, downplayed the feud between the governor and the MCAs, saying it was not as serious as it was being portrayed. He said he had talked to assembly speaker Josiah Thiriku and other assembly leaders on the need to meet with the governor to iron out their differences. Kigoro said he had also proposed the same to the governor and both had agreed to meet. “Very soon you will see the governor and the MCAs shaking hands to work together for the benefit of resident,” Kigoro said.    