The mental status of an accused person can affect how a criminal case will proceed in court and can at times be declared unfit to stand trial. In the criminal code, being unfit to stand trial means the accused is unable to defend themselves because of their mental disorder. They are also not able to tell their lawyer what they want to do with their case because of their condition. The suspect is thus not able to understand they are in a courtroom, and who the people in the courtroom are, including the presiding judge or magistrate. The accused doesn't also understand what they are charged with, what kind of plea they can enter — either guilty or not guilty — and what can happen to them if they plead guilty. The mental state of the accused when committing the said offense is also considered during examination by the doctors. If a judge or magistrate has a reason to believe the accused is not fit to stand trial, then they will order for a mental assessment. The law assumes that every accused person is “fit” unless it is determined by a mental assessment report that he or she is not. In Kenya, all murder suspects have to undergo a mental examination by a psychiatrist before they can be formally charged. If the report confirms the suspect indeed has mental issues and cannot stand trial, they are put on medication until such a time they are fit to stand trial. There are scenarios where doctors can clear the accused as fit to stand trial but as the case proceeds then they are declared unfit, and the case has to be stopped. However, if the case proceeds to conclusion and it turns out that the accused was actually mentally impaired during trial, the case is declared as a mistrial and has to start afresh. In the famous Phillip Onyancha’s case, several psychiatrists called by the state to determine his sanity could not agree on whether he was mentally disturbed or not. One of the doctors based in Nakuru said despite his bizarre actions, Onyancha was not crazy and that he was fit to stand trial. Justice Jessie Lessit was, however, not content with the report that Onyancha was sane due to his bloodsucking behaviour and thus ordered for another mental report. Another team of three doctors assessed him again and concluded Onyancha was fit to stand trial. A year later, lawyer Paul Muite, who had taken up the case, organised another team of doctors who re-examined him and gave a different opinion — Onyancha was mentally disturbed at the time he was committing the crime. In 2013, Justice Stella Mutuku set aside a life sentence for Mohamed Sonar Noor ruling that he was mentally unstable and was suffering from schizophrenia at the time he was tried. Noor was convicted by a Wajir court after he pleaded guilty of defiling a minor. She referred Noor to hospital for medical examination and if the report finds him fit, he would be charged before another magistrate. She also ruled that if he is unfit to stand trial, he would be treated until such a time that he is fit to take the plea.