Over 1,400 investors yesterday moved to court seeking the release of funds totaling Sh2.9 million from a man accused of illegally running a forex business. Appearing before Milimani chief magistrate Francis Andayi on Monday, the investors sought the reopening of the bank accounts held in Manases Karanja’s name that have remained closed for over three months. “We are seeking the release of funds directly to the investors as we do not know the circumstances under which the accounts were frozen,” court papers read. Last week, a Nairobi court barred Karanja from accessing any funds held in his bank accounts or making transactions following an application filed in court. He was on October 2 charged with carrying out a business as an online broker without a license. He is said to have committed the offence between January 2018 and August 2019 at View Park Towers where he was a director of Inter-Web Global Fortune Limited. Karanja is alleged to have been running an online business in which he invited members of the public to invest by depositing the funds with him in return for a monthly return of 20 per cent of the amount invested. He was also to give a full refund of the initial deposit upon termination of relations. “The applicants having no doubt on the legality of the business in question invested in the business on diverse dates with funds totaling to Sh2, 910, 000,” a court application read. The online broker is said to have paid the 20 per cent to the applicants for a while without fail. He, however, failed to make the August monthly remittance and on inquiry, applicants learnt that he had been charged with illegally operating the business by the Capital Markets Authority. His bank accounts were allegedly frozen by the Central Bank of Kenya, a statement the accused denied. “Between August 9 and August 19, there was a directive from the CBK for closure of all accounts dealing with online foreign exchange,” Karanja said through his lawyer. More than three months down the line, the authorities are yet to inform the applicants whether or not they will recover their money. Since the DPP had not yet filed a response to the application by yesterday, the magistrate granted the prosecution a final chance to file their responses within 24 hours. The case will be heard today at noon.