The Building Bridges Initiative report was released to the public on November 27 at the Bomas Kenya amid much fanfare with politicians from both divides present. Already there had been the anticipation of the release of the report and with it speculation of its content. The Senator Yusuf Haji-led committee had promised to deliver the report by end of October if granted extension, which was given. The team, which was appointed after the March 2018 handshake by President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga, traversed all the 47 counties and collected views from the public and stakeholders. This was in spite of opposition from some politicians. In some counties such as Uashin Gishu, the reception for the team was outright hostile and appeared predisposed to certain preconceived political considerations. The report has the objective to, among other things, resolve ethnic animosity. On March 9, 2018, Uhuru and Raila agreed on the nine points with an aim "to create a united nation for all Kenyans living today, and all future generations." The nine issues BBI was tasked to address was; corruption, lack of a national ethos, devolution, divisive elections, safety and security, responsibilities and rights and inclusivity. The report could open the floodgates for 2022 pre-election deals after the task force recommended creating new powerful government posts. Standing out is the position of the prime minister. Though non-executive, the holder will be an influential figure within the two arms of government -Parliament and the Executive. The desire to fly ministerial flags is likely to see many high-flying politicians with presidential ambitions plunge into parliamentary elections with the hopes that they could become prime minister. Formed on the backdrop of the hotly contested 2017 presidential election and the divisions that followed, BBI was expected to assess the socio-political and economic environment and make appropriate recommendations that resonate with the stakeholders’ aspirations. The report also urges the return of politicians to the Cabinet. The creation of the powerful office of the Leader of the Opposition with enhanced benefits, complete with shadow ministers, would offer a lifeline for the runner-up in the presidential election. The Office of the Official Opposition Leader, which was repealed in 2010, could see the return to Parliament of bigwigs who have been out in the cold after losing presidential elections. Then there is the position of minister of state, also a sitting MP, which the BBI team says is to ensure “effective political direction and parliamentary accountability”. Apart from the new position, there is the position of deputy president as well as the speakers of the two houses of Parliament that presidential candidates would attempt to dangle before their suitors. “The BBI report has thrown a spanner into the works on ethnic arithmetic. It has stirred up issues of political arithmetic for those hoping to run for president,” political and governance expert Javas Bigambo told the Star. The country's 'Big Five' President Uhuru Kenyatta, his deputy William Ruto, Opposition chief Raila Odinga, ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and Kalonzo Musyoka of Wiper - are seen as the political giants who will likely shape 2022 politics. However, with the dramatically diminished powers of the PM, it is unlikely that Uhuru, whom critics have condemned for plotting a 2022 comeback, would be interested in the seat. National Assembly Minority leader and ODM chairman John Mbadi revealed that prospective presidential candidates will now be forced to draw up lineups that will share power in case of victory.