The war on corruption dominated speeches during this year's Jamhuri Day celebration in Homa Bay. In the celebration, which was presided over by Governor Cyprian Awiti and the county commissioner Herman Shambi in Sindo, Suba South constituency, Homa Bay leadership warned officials against graft. Awiti said his government officials implicated in graft will have to quit their offices. The Governor said he would not meddle in any investigation over graft in the county, noting that officials charged with graft should carry their own cross. “If you are implicated in corruption, you will have to prepare and answer questions alone. Don’t return to your village people and say you’re targeted,” Awiti said. Awiti who was with his deputy Hamilton Orata and a number of CeC members distanced himself from officials implicated in corruption. He told them that they were hired to deliver services to residents and not to steal. Last week, three officials including Kepha Rombe (administrative officer), Mary Wesonga (Supply chain manager), her husband and former Roads chief officer Chris Agong’ were charged over graft in Kisii court. They were arraigned after the anti-graft agency detectives (EACC) arrested them. They were charged in connection with loss of more than Sh.180million. “It is not my habit to sack county officials but corruption will send them home. Don't blame me if you lose your job but blame yourself for practicing graft,” Awiti said. Addressing locals on Thursday, the Governor expressed concerns that corruption can deter residents from acquiring services they deserve. Awiti told county government officials to commit themselves to service delivery. “We need residents to get services they deserve instead of engaging in personal interests. You should know that this country has many people who can serve in the positions you are,” he said. The court also issued a warrant of arrest against three other officials who disappeared. Orata said each executive member should put interest of residents ahead of theirs. “Homa Bay people put you into those offices to serve them and not benefit as individual,” Orata said. On his part, Shambi gave an ultimatum of one week to close Wadiang'a beach over rising insecurity in Sindo town. The beach was termed as a hideout for criminals perpetrating theft of properties for traders in the town. “We cannot keep shedding blood in the name of criminals operating amongst us. We are going to do all it takes to weed out the criminals,” Shambi said. He urged residents to be on the lookout and collaborate with security officials in fighting crime in the area.