The Aga Khan Foundation has initiated a programme seeking to mould the youth into responsible citizens. It has started educating young people on the need to espouse good values, which are critical for shared prosperity and sustainable development. On Saturday Atrash Ali, the manager in charge of the Coast and Northeastern regions, said they have developed four modules for the drive. He said it defeats logic to train and equip individuals with business skills and leave out basic values that would make them admirable in whatever they do. The values include those that promote unity, help people to be ethical and advance inclusion through interpersonal understanding. The foundation uses experiential learning, a  creative methodology in which participants are exposed to different activities that enable them to gain skills and knowledge and develop an attitude that foster better relations. "We should not only be looking at supporting the youth to build their skills in business development and entrepreneurship but also supporting them to address the social ills that affect them," Ali said. "We need to come up with very innovative solutions that will help them to create a self space, not only where they can raise their voices and dialogue more effectively to demand what is theirs but also taking responsibility in whatever engagement they pursue." The Aga Khan official spoke in Garissa town during the closing ceremony of a five-day experimental camp that brought together the youth from Lamu, Garissa, Wajir and Mandera. He said that as much as it is important to support the youth to take advantage of emerging socioeconomic opportunities, it is also crucial to help them address the social ills in society. The youth in the region have remained soft targets for terror groups and criminals who recruit them into their ranks. Some have ended up being radicalised and subsequently used by militants to carry out attacks. Ahmednoor Mohamed, the Aga Khan Foundation project officer in charge of Garissa, supported the need to nurture the young generation so they can be upright. He said that besides business and job market skills, young people also need life skills that will help them fit well in society. “It was important to support the youth to unlock their potential and explore their creativity. Through this, we are also going to enable them to build a safe environment, not only for them but also for their communities," he said. (Edited by F'Orieny)