It appears that some politicians from Mt Kenya region do not want to let go of power. They have a mentality that power must be absolute and as such they must be the ones to control it. With the creation of the position of the Prime Minister as proposed in the Building Bridges Initiative Report, a section of Mt Kenya leader appears not to be happy with a weaker prime minister. This thinking is partly informed by the fear that they may lose out on the presidency in 2022. So for the region to feel part and parcel of power, they are pushing for a powerful PM under a parliamentary system. That narrative may set the region against Kenyans who believe it is time for politicians from other regions to occupy State House, the seat of power. It appears those from the Mt Kenya region who feel threatened by a new wind of political change want the Constitution amended so that when the position of the PM is created, they get into a position to run the government. They are after power and believe one of the ways to feel secure is to block Deputy President William Ruto. Those who share the idea of a powerful Prime Minister are especially politicians opposed to Ruto's bid for the presidency. These cabal of politicians, perhaps, have realised that it may be hard to successfully block Ruto from winning the presidential race in 2022 and are therefore keen to create safeguards to ensure they don't lose out completely in case he wins. However, some politicians coalescing around President Uhuru Kenyatta and former Prime Minister Raila Odinga are keen in backing a parliamentary system of government. The pro-Raila and Uhuru backers appear to be gravitating towards this perspective. However, the divergent views coming out of Mt Kenya serve as a clear testimony of the underlying sharp political cracks that will play out in 2022. It is no secret that the politicians, largely opposed to Ruto, are pushing for a system that would whittle down the powers of the Office of the President in a scheme to cut Ruto down to size. Jedidah Ameo is a governance expert and political analyst