Nyali MP Mohammed Ali has warned youth against indulging in drugs and crime in the constituency, saying the government will not play games with criminals. Ali, who raised a concern about the rise in insecurity, said he will support the government in dealing with crime. “The government will not joke with a criminal, thief or drug trafficker. I will stand with the government on this,” the MP said. He spoke on Sunday after watching a local match between Kadzandani FC and 11 Brothers FC in the Nyali 1 Football Tournament which he launched on Saturday. Security apparatus in Mombasa have had to change tack in dealing with insecurity after it was revealed that the juvenile criminal gang members have taken a more collaborative approach. This means members of different gangs now work together unlike before when they used to clash in the fight for control of different territories. They are their brothers’ keepers. Last Wednesday, Coast regional deputy police commander Ambrose Mwachia said the security personnel have kept themselves abreast of the changing tactics embraced by the criminal gang members. On Saturday, Ali said some parents abet crime by shielding their criminal children from arrest. “If you know your child slashes people with pangas and if you receive money from your son but don’t question the source, you are contributing to insecurity,” Ali said. “If you know you are a panga-wielding person, your 40 days will be over you will pay. The law will do to you what you are doing to your victims." The former journalist said he has dedicated his life to fighting ills in the society and will not stop until he achieves his mission. The MP urged the youth to be dedicated in sports saying nothing comes easy. “When you play football, you have to play with the mentality that this is your work and you have to respect it,” he told the youth. At the same time, Ali said the elderly people will benefit from a National Hospital Insurance Fund cover for a year that will be paid by the NGCDF for persons aged 55 and above. “Next year, we will be paying for the cover for 800 people." Edited by R.Wamochie