Four Narok  MCAs have defended Governor Samuel Tunai against accusations he used county cash for functions of the national government. Senators last Tuesday asked Tunai to explain why his administration spent money on building classrooms, laboratories and dormitories for schools, a function of the national government. Led by Kuyo ole Kijabe (Kimintet) the ward reps said the county was delivering on the needs of residents and who dictate on the projects they need. Stanley Langat (Ilkerin), Vincent Rotich (Mogondo) and Richard Keter (Ololmasani) supported KIjabe's remarks. The lawmakers spoke at Kigonor Secondary School in Transmara West subcounty. Tunai said that the expenditure was approved by the Controller of the Budget and  the Education ministry okayed the projects. Rotich wondered why the senators were questioning the governor's actions and yet they have never bothered to visit the counties and see the state of schools. “Our people have been pushing us to the wall and demanding the county administration builds schools which are one of the priorities,” Rotich said. He told the senators to stick to their oversight mandate and leave the governor to undertake his work in improving education in the county. Langat said that progress in education will only be achieved if the counties and national government work together to improve the school infrastructure. “After seeing the dilapidated state of the schools, we decided as the county assembly to support the executive on the improvement of schools. Our people only know the local government as the one responsible for all the projects in the county,” he said. Kijabe said that the people in the villagers have many challenges that can only be addressed if the county government intervenes. “We know the building of schools is a national function but when they fail the local county government chips,” Kijabe said. Tunai said they have lined up several priority projects and are committed at ensuring the lives of county residents are improved.