The final national Under 20 squad for the Barthez Cup will be selected next week. They will be joined by the crop of 2019 Chipu players who are still eligible come 2020 for a provisional squad of 40. The first round of trials was held in Nakuru on December 7-8 under backs and forwards coaches Kenny Andola and Mike Aung. Head coach Paul Odera, assisted by Michael Owino and Billy Odengo conducted the second set of trials in Embu a day later. 82 players then turned up for the third round of trials at the RFUEA ground a fortnight ago. 60 players have made the cut for the final trials. Chipu, as the side are known will participate in the Barthez Cup in 2020 at a date and venue to be confirmed by Rugby Africa. The tournament has traditionally been held in either March or April. If Chipu successfully defend their title, they will be Africa’s representatives at the Junior World Rugby Trophy to be held in Spain between September 14 and 27, 2020. Kenya Rugby Union chairman Oduor Gangla said they are keen to host the Barthez Cup for the second year running having hosted and won the event this year following a hard-fought 21-18 win over powerhouse Namibia. Odera was delighted with the turnout during the trials. “I think the squad selected is good. We have lots of talent in the country and I expect the trials to be very competitive,” added Odera. On the day, the players should submit an original birth certificate, valid passport, Yellow Fever certificate and  two passport size photos. Selected players from the regional trials include Props: Charles Muiruri (Alliance High), Willy Nganga (Mwamba), Ian Kinyua (South Coast Pirates), Alvin Ndonga (Alliance), Rodney Ambale (Strathmore Leos), Tariq Ngige (Impala Saracens); Hookers: Maxwell Atera (Northern Suburbs), Sean Douglas (Alliance High), Thedius Marvin (Daystar Falcons), Willy Nganga (Kisumu RFC); Locks: Kevin Wekesa (Kabras), Hillary Mburu (Nondies), George Makudiah (Homeboyz), Ndirangu William (Unattached), Leo Henricke (Impala Saracens), Shawn David (Dagoretti Bulldogs), Argwings Owino (Kisumu RFC), Thomas Okeyo(Kabianga Secondary); Backrows: Nickosn Mwania (MKU Thika), Brian Wendo (Vandals), Jonathan Reagan (KCB), Kevin Moronga (Mwamba), Daniel Odhiambo (Shamas), Julius Kangethe (Muranga RFC), Ian Wamalwa (Kisumu RFC), Victor Gichana (Kabras), Collins Indeche (Kabras); Scrumhalfs James Mwangi (Impala), Brian Karimi (Embu RFC), Samuel Mwanzia (Leos), Alex Kyeti (Suburbs), Hope Sibwoga (Ahero RFC), Ali Rashid (Pirates), Walter Mikanga (Kisumu), Joseph Kivuva (Ngong warriors), Warren Kamadi, (Sawagongo), William Kyalo (Pirates); Centers: Shem Okola (Suburbs), Felix Otieno (Kisumu RFC), Thomas Alistair (Milton Abbey), George Juma (Suburbs), Keith Omwoyo (Nyamira), Ivine Terrrick (Suburbs), Agesa Adaka (Kabras), Elvin Kolai (Nakuru), Mwaura Samuel (Nakuru); Backs: Adama Bagaka (Mean Machine), Anthony Njenga (Stormers RFC), Elvis Otineo (TUK), Walter Omanyo (Leos), Mark Lewis (Dagoretti High), Raymond Kenga (Mombasa RFC), Isiah Wachiuri (Dedan Kimathi), Eugene Ojiambo(Kisumu RFC).