A Form 1 girl was allegedly defiled in what she thought was safe heaven. This emerged after a police officer in Homa Bay was arrested for reportedly defiling a 15-year-old girl on a child protection programme at Ndhiwa police station. Constable Kelvin Muturi was arrested on Tuesday evening at his workplace on orders from the Office of the Directorate of Public Prosecutions. Muturi is accused of severally defiling the girl when he was on a night shift on diverse dates between January and September this year. The victim, who is a partial orphan, was being protected at a cell in the station after she ran away from home over frustrations from some family members. “The minor was staying in the cells because the police station does not have a special place where children with such cases can be kept,” Homa Bay DCI boss Daniel Wachira said. Speaking to journalists in his office on Wednesday, Wachira said Muturi would sneak into the cell where the minor used to sleep and take her to his house. The officer would then take her back to the cell at dawn and continue with his duties. “He warned the girl on several occasions not to tell anyone about their sexual acts,” Wachira said. The incident was made public after one of the sisters of the victim reported that the girl was being defiled instead of being protected. “The officer would occasionally give her money to stop the minor from leaking the information,” the sister said. Police records indicate the minor was found at Kadel market in Karachuonyo constituency after the officer gave her money to flee from Ndhiwa police cells to an unknown destination in an attempt to cover-up for his actions The girl was taken to Ngegu police post before being transferred back Ndhiwa. Wachira said a team of investigators presented the case file to the DPP, who established the officer had committed and offence and consequently ordered his arrest. Muturi is held at Homa Bay police station. “Interrogations are ongoing and the suspect is expected to be arraigned later,” Wachira said.