Owners of vehicles parked on public pathways risk paying fines following a proposal by City Hall. The county government says it will tow such cars away at owners’ costs. Those who fail to pay will lose their vehicles. They will be auctioned. The decision follows a complaint by Dandora I MCA Peter Wanyoike over the risks posed to residents by vehicles grounded on different routes reserved for pedestrians. He sought a statement from the Transport department. In a response tabled in the assembly early this month, the department said it was considering putting in place measures to protect footpaths and other public spaces. The docket acknowledged that parking of vehicles on walkways and road reserves had become a common phenomenon across the city, especially on residential estates. Footpaths that are prone to encroachment include those along Ngong Road, Ring Road and some parts of Outer Ring Road. Over the years, some have been taken over by unscrupulous residents and are used for the wrong purpose. Bodaboda riders and cart pullers also use the paths as parking bays where they target passersby to buy their goods or services. Small-scale traders or hawkers have also been complicit. The intrusion has been a cause for concern as it makes room for insecurity. Muggings, accidents and pickpocketing have been reported in some areas. Pedestrians have called for stringent steps to ensure security. “It’s a struggle for us because we can’t freely walk on the paths when we have bodabodas and carts occupying almost the whole space. To make matters worse, we have traders selling their items and you have to be watchful not to step on them,” Mary Wahito said. Dennis Kiptoo said, “Some of these parked vehicles tend to be a security threat, especially at night. We cannot know the intention of the owner and whether criminal gangs are using the same cars as hideouts.” But speaking to the Star, a bodaboda rider said the footpaths provide strategic points to easily access customers. “We have to park where we can easily get our customers who are pedestrians. At times some of the customers have heavy luggage and it is easier for them access transport where it is readily available,” Marcus Makau said. He said they have no designated pick-up or drop-off points, hence operate where they “can best earn a few coins”. In August this year, the county government announced that it would construct bodaboda sheds that would also act as pick-up points on the fringes of the city centre. Targeted areas included Landi Mawe, Railways, Globe Cinema Roundabout and Kariokor. Nothing has been done thus far.