Meru residents have blocked all roads to the construction site of a Sh1 billion sewage treatment plant expansion and have sued in the Environment Court to halt the project. The Meru county commissioner, the Tana Water Services Board and the Meru government's attempts to launch construction have been futile. Forty acres at Rwanyange were obtained by the Tana Board for the sewage treatment plant. When it was commissioned 45 years ago, the existing plant in North Imenti was meant to serve a Meru town population of 11,700; the population is now 156,000. The Tana River Water Services Board said the existing plant operates at three times its capacity, so performance is substandard. "Therefore, the treated effluent does not achieve its required biological and chemical guidelines for discharge into the environment," the board's technical services manager John Mbogori said. Residents said there was no public participation and argue the plant will cause environmental damage, pollute land and water as the site is a water catchment area surrounded by two rivers. They say their health and farming livelihoods will be damaged. Residents urged justice Lucy Mbugua of the Meru Land and Environment Court to block construction. They said Nema improperly issued a license for the project. Justice Mbugua suspended construction and transferred the case to the National Environment Tribunal, saying weighty issues were involved. The suit has not been heard. “Contamination of water sources is a technical matter best challenged under the Environment Management and Coordination Act. The nature of the project requires deep scrutiny of the completeness of the scientific study for which the Nema licence was issued,” Justice Mbugua ruled. The suit was filed in April by the Rwanyange Residents Self-Help Group on behalf of 1,000 members opposed to upgrading the plant. Group chairman Charles Kariuki and secretary Nick Mutiga sued the Tana Water Services Board, the Meru county government and contractors Hankuk Engineering Consultants Ltd and Ecosite Development Consultants Ltd. County commissioner Allan Machari, accompanied by police officers, told journalists the plant must be established at the site. He said there had been public participation at Three Steers Hotel in Meru town. He said the existing plant is 45 years old, too small for the area's increased population. Water overflows from ponds in the rainy season and poses health problems, he said. But Kariuki said they will file a contempt-of-court suit against the county commissioner and others involved because the Tribunal is yet to hear and determine their petition. "There was no public participation. Nema has never visited the site, how did they issue a license? Why should the government build a sewage plant in a swamp? All outlets will be directed to River Kinyaritha that drains into Kathita River,” Kariuki told the Star on Thursday. Rwanyange resident Stanley Mutwiri said he is shocked the government is relocating the Gakoromone Sewerage plant to their ancestral land instead of establishing a University or a Technical Institute to benefit residents. “Our area is a food basket, we harvest and transport arrowroot, bananas, sugarcane, cabbages, beans and kales that mature very fast because the area is swampy. We demand the plant be taken elsewhere," he said. The board, with the approval of the state, had secured a Sh874.5 million loan from the African Development Bank for the project.  The respondents wanted the court to dismiss the suit, arguing existing settling ponds overflow on the main road and outside the plant, posing a danger to public health. The project involves the construction of sewerage convergence facilities, a wastewater treatment plant, an office block with laboratories and staff houses. The residents said they are large-scale farmers of French beans and other food and cash crops. They said buyers will not purchase their produce if the plant is put up. (Edited by V. Graham)