Coming from a marginalised and nearly 'forgotten' sleepy Samburu county, Isaac Lenaola beat all odds to attain outstanding academic credentials and become Kenya's top jurist. He was awarded the 2019 Jurist of the year award by International Commission of Jurist. In a statement on Thursday by Former Chairperson, ICJ Kenya Njonjo Mue,the jurist earned his place in history as a courageous, firm, bold, fearless and wise judge. "Not only is our Jurist an astute judicial officer but also an acclaimed scholar. Together with Prof. Marion Mutungi, our jurist co-authored and published a book on Bioethics of Medical advances and genetic for manipulation," read the statement. His journey to the top has not been an easy ride. Born in late 1967 in Maralal now Samburu County, his passion for law started when he was 16 years. A then form three student at Alliance High school was intrigued by the corridors of justice. Young Lenaola was also impressed by how former National Assembly Speaker Francis Ole Kaparo represented his clients at Maralal law courts. He decided to study law making him the first Samburu ever to study Law at the University of Nairobi. In 1990 he joined the Kenya School of Law after finishing his bachelor's degree in Law. In 1991 he was admitted to the Bar as an advocate of the High Court of Kenya. LEGAL CAREER The motivated man began his legal career in private practice as a pupil and associate in Rimui and Mubia Advocates. He served as a Commissioner both at the Peoples Commission of Kenya (PCK) and at the Constitution of Kenya Review Commission (CKRC) from2001 to2006) between 1999-2001. As a Commissioner he played an integral role in the drafting the initial and the second constitution—popularly known as the Bomas Draft. The draft was later redrafted by the Committee of Experts and is now the Constitution of Kenya, 2010. He also served as a member of the Tribunal Investigating the conduct of Puisne Judges following the “radical surgery” of the judiciary in 2003. HOPE His appointment as a Judge of the High Court in 2003 saw him have a ray of hope as he saw his calling and judicial philosophy manifesting. He served as a Resident Judge in Embu, Meru, Machakos and Kakamega High Courts. As a High Court Judge and at the onset of implementation of the Constitution 2010, our jurist served as an elected representative of Kenya Magistrates and Judges Association (KMJA). At the then newly constituted Judicial Service Commission (JSC). At the JSC, he also served as Chairperson of the Human Resource and Administration Committee (HRAC). He was previously a Member of the Judicial Training Institute (JTI) Board Chairman and member of various Judiciary Committees, Chairman of the Kenya Magistrates and Judges Association (KMJA) and Treasurer of the East African Magistrates and Judges Association (EAMJA). Until his appointment as Judge of the Supreme Court, he was the Presiding Judge of the Constitutional and Human Rights Division at the High Court in Milimani, Nairobi where he rendered illuminating and ground-breaking decisions that touched on human rights, devolution and separation of powers, among other areas of jurisprudence. His judicial pronouncements have set him apart as a transformative judge.