Once again, we have reminded ourselves that it will need more than the political class to help the country deal with the myriad economic, social and political challenges it faces. We need leadership from across Kenya to openly and honestly lead a national conversation but the sobriety and disciple that is required of such undertaking is lacking in our political system. We need more vigorous involvement in the search for a peaceful and development-focussed nation by academicians, religious leaders and non-state actors to force this national conversation that has Kenya at heart. This will take more than just a few individuals. Just as we missed the opportunity to solve a number of manageable national challenges through the Agenda Four items on national reconciliation — which temporarily held the country together following the 2007-08 post-election violence — we are back to our usual best — hatred, insincerity and political deceit. The BBI report has given us the missing point, a springboard to the real political realignment and rhetoric that has been missing. Amidst the flooding that has claimed lives and destroyed property in the country, political formations now seem to be the priority. Who, now, will reorganise the national conversation and focus the country on key immediate challenges? To imagine our elected leaders care about the Kenya of tomorrow is expecting too much. History shows nearly 70 per cent of them do not make it back to Parliament in subsequent elections and thus, any expectation that anything good for Kenyans will come from these politicians is dead on arrival. Succession politics in Kenya as elsewhere globally are tricky, and unless managed and directed well, they can be disruptive. As it is now, succession politics have taken the upper hand in the national debate and are clouding national development. The political system and processes in South Africa and Tanzania, while exhibiting limited democracy and deeply curated succession politics, show a mature, structured and system-oriented approach than our individual-based party politics. Look at the political system that produced Thambo Mbeki, Jacob Zuma, Cyril Ramaphosa,  Hassan Mwinyi and Pombe Magufuli in the respective countries and compare it with our political party processes. We are stuck at where we were in 1992, and seem to have stuck to a reporting format in our political progress — chaos, deceit, personalities, ethnic mobilisation, hatred, impunity and make or break competition that always leaves the country strained. While the individuals selected through their party process might be problematic and questionable in the South Africa and Tanzania models, at least their is structured and documented.  There are desirable lessons that Kenyans should borrow. We need to push our political party process to such a level. Otherwise, achieving the desired economic and social goals will remain elusive because they are heavily tied to the political processes and the quality of our political leadership is very important in their attainment. Our political system remains the main cause of tensions and poverty. The same people who have dominated Kenya’s political and by extension economic system are still in charge of the reform process, and being interested and having been beneficiaries of the old skewed system make them continue to dominate. As it stands now, politics in Kenya tend to be dictated by those who fund the ruling party to ascend to power. This has created a situation where those who get to leadership serve the interests of their funders. As a result, political accountability is to those who finance the parties and not to the citizens. On the other hand, a strong culture of handouts has emerged and has narrowed the political space. Existing national institutions that should have helped in ensuring free, honest and focused national conservations seem so weak, unprepared and ethnically entrenched to be of any meaningful value to Kenyans. By the way, what happens to the recommendations from the National Prayer Day event? Leadership that transcends our political orientations is needed to refocus the country to the path of national development and healing.