A section of Tana delta in Tana River county is currently submerged for the last two-month with hundreds left homeless following the floods that ravaged the country. The floods waters swept away homes including those that were constructed by the Kenya Red Cross while some are surrounded by water leaving residents with nowhere to stay. Aa a result, a humanitarian crisis has hit the area as the locals have never had any intervention ever since the floods hit the area and some are still marooned up to date. There is also an outbreak of water-borne diseases and locals fear there could be cholera soon if action is not taken. Areas worst hit include Mwanja, Odole, Samicha, Handaraku up to Sogan where in many areas access can only be through canoes. Journalists managed to tour some of the villages by boat on Monday and came face to face with the disaster. At Mwanja, a village with 350 households, only 150 managed to voluntarily go to safe grounds but the rest are still living there. Their homes are submerged and all crops were destroyed when the floods hit the area. Mahmud Kuno, a resident of Mwanja, said the locals are not so lucky during both drought and floods. Speaking at their submerged village, Kuno said they cannot move to safer grounds or relocate to another area as it will affect their livelihoods. The area falls within the delta and is flat which makes it vulnerable to floods during such calamities. ''When we relocate we lose our resources and if we stay normally we suffer the consequences, '' he said. During drought, he said the freshwater from the river mixes with that of the ocean and turns salty which normally affects crops and even animals. He accused the government of both county and national of neglecting them and not coming up with a proper mechanism of relocating them to the safe zone in a proper manner. Currently, they only survive with fish caught from the flooded areas for food and sleep in the open. Kipini West MCA Musa Wario whose ward was affected said the situation was worrying as the locals have no food, shelter and even health services since authorities have not responded since the disaster started. He said those who managed to go to safer grounds that is two kilometers away had to use canoes but the rest refused to relocate fearing to lose their properties. Wario said they found several women and their children who are sick as there was an outbreak of malaria but could not access health services. ''In all those areas affected there is no government institution that has come to intervene and see how those people are surviving since the disaster-hit them,'' he said. The MCA said those living in the submerged villages require urgent intervention to prevent any loss of lives. He said the local dispensaries in his entire ward had no drugs which make the problem to be worse. Wario said the water levels were rising and the situation could be worse in the next few days. "The Government should use any means to supply support the victims whether it's a chopper or boat as the disaster was worrying," he said. At Odhole village, the situation was worse as the village is also submerged and over 600 people affected. Boba Ashako, a resident of Odhole, said their entire village is submerged and they have nowhere to stay or go graze their cows. "We have no doctor, the hospital is there but it's difficult to get the services. There is an outbreak of Malaria but roads are inaccessible to reach the safety zones," he said. Hashono Abawatha, a resident of Odhole, said women were suffering since the floods hit the area as they do not have food. She called on the government to intervene and assist them as they lost everything due to the disaster. Odhole location chief, Dende Abdulahi said the entire Chara area has been affected and victims are camping in three camps while others are still in the flooded areas. He said they established camps at Darga in Konemasa while the other one is at Marafa and Odhole Primary. The chief said the situation is worse and called on humanitarian organizations and the Government to come in and save the victims. "We urgently need food and nonfood items, these locals have many challenges, the farms were swept away while animals were transferred," he said. At Mandingo area over 200 out of the 350  floods, victims from Handaraku were forced to camp there for safety after their homes were submerged. Ibrahim Abdi said they are currently residing in the open at an area with mosquitoes, snakes, and hyenas.