KCB came from a goal down to thrash nine-man Posta Rangers 5-1 yesterday at the Kenyatta Stadium, Machakos to move to fourth on the log. Experienced forward Enock Agwanda's hattrick inspired the bankers to their sixth win of the season which left assistant coach Godfrey Oduor elated with the win despite the absence of his boss Zedekiah 'Zico' Otieno. Oduor revealed that Rangers fall was plotted over a telephone call with his boss who is in Uganda with the national team and was hopeful similar tactics will yield fruit when they play AFC Leopards in their next match. "The boys played to the script discussed with the boss before the game. We will also have a conversation with him before we play Leopards in our next assignment," said Oduor. Posta mounted an early quest to take the lead, floating in long balls into the area which seemed to disorient the bankers. Their efforts paid off hardly eleven minutes into the game as former banker Brian Osumba's long-range clearance from his own half sailed into an empty net after KCB's shot-stopper Allan Owiny had taken a goal kick and failed to back-pedal to his territory on time. The goal served as a wake-up call to KCB who reacted by stepping up their build-ups hence balancing the game. Rangers right-back Elvis Osok had an afternoon to forget as his marker and Harambee Stars trialist Reagan Onyango dribbled past him at will, forcing coach Sammy 'Pamzo' Omolo to instruct his backline to double mark the youngster. Onyango who was part of the Stars provisional squad for the Cecafa Senior Challenge before being dropped on the eve of departure stole the show and would register a superb assist in the 30th minute. The rookie collected the ball in the final third before lobbing it past his markers to the unmarked Agwanda who rounded an advancing Jairus Adira before slotting the ball into an empty net to restore parity. 14 minutes after the break, Rangers were reduced to ten men after Dinken Mwema used his arm to stop a goal-bound header from Agwanda leaving Andrew Juma with no option other than to send him for an early shower as well as gift KCB a spot-kick. Agwanda calmly converted from the spot to complete his brace and would record his hattrick in the 73rd minute, once again from the spot after Joseph Mbugi had handled in the box. Samuel Mwangi and Dennis Odhiambo scored deep into stoppage time to condemn Rangers to their third loss of the season. Few minutes to the final whistle, Rangers were reduced to nine men after Charles Odette was sent off. Rangers assistant coach Pascal Ochieng admitted it will be difficult to prepare for their next match against Kariobangi Sharks without the services of Odette and Mwema. "We accept the defeat but we will look to rectify the mistakes we made today before our next match. It will be a challenge missing the two but we will try to sharpen their replacement in our training sessions," said Omolo.