Messages from the government are laden with gaps and inadequacies resulting in mistrust from the citizenry, a task force has found. The report by the Task Force on the Improvement of Government Information and Public Communications shows that the mistrust is getting worse. The lapse, the report titled 'Winning Public Trust' says, has led vocal citizens with access to mainstream and digital media platforms to rant. "Presentations to the task force made clear that significant sections of the citizenry have low trust in communication emanating from the government in general because they feel that they are excluded from decision-making processes and are, as a result, sceptical whether government initiatives are genuinely designed to advance their well-being,” the report notes. It was handed over to communication CS Joe Mucheru December 16. The David Makali-led task force had five terms of reference. It had to study and review existing policies and laws on public communication and information and advice as to their appropriateness and consistency. It also was tasked with identifying and reviewing any gaps and inadequacies in the staffing levels of public communication offices. The team was to make recommendations on how to revamp and strengthen the institutional and operational base of public communications. It was also to explore modalities and generate proposals on how public communications and information staff can be involved in all policy-making and communication initiatives. Finally, it needed to make recommendations on how to facilitate public communication and information cohesiveness across government. The task force found that there is a lack of a coherent, overarching government communication strategy. "Government communication is reactive and short-term and conditioned by emerging day-to-day issues rather than a long-term vision. “The absence of a clear guiding communications philosophy or a clear strategic communications plan results in incoherent, contradictory and sometimes confusing government messaging that either ignores - or is often out of touch with - the daily concerns of citizens on salient policy issues,” the report notes. It cited the government's harmonised registration of its citizens-Huduma Namba, the Housing Levy for affordable housing and the Competency-Based Curriculum as examples. The task force notes that service delivery is often politicised. "This has spawned political competition round the year, the net effect of which is the obsession with taking credit for all government initiatives and services by individual political leaders," it said. The team notes that communication on government policies is often weaved with political campaign messages, hence polarising and undermining its impartiality or credibility among disaffected or opposed segments of the public. "This toxic mix often elicits a negative reaction and undermines the clarity of government communications." The task force also found out that there is limited appreciation of the power of information to catalyse socio-economic progress. It said the government has not taken optimum advantage of information management in public affairs and the role it plays in shaping public opinion, catalysing development and driving positive change. “The predominant ethos is that information in the government’s custody is secret (serikali ni siri kali) and withholding it from the prying public is the duty of loyal public servants. “This is offensive to the constitutional requirement for the government to publish information of public interest proactively,” the report warns. The task force said that the legal environment within which public information and communication takes place includes a raft of progressive laws that oblige the state to publish information proactively and grants the citizens the right to access it. Some of these rights are however subject to security, public health and other limitations provided in the Constitution. The task force said some statutes are however yet to be aligned to some of the new requirements. “Notwithstanding the existence of these laws, cases were cited of open failure to comply with the CoK 2010 (Constitution of Kenya 2010) by state officers, who routinely frustrate public access to necessary information.” Under-resourced public communications, low rating of state media have also been cited as impediments. The task force found out that poor service delivery, unfulfilled promises by the government, various institutional failures and a poor public sector work ethic in general are major causes of declining public trust. It said public servants did not seem to appreciate the vital link between the efficacy of government actions and services on one hand and public confidence on the other. “While citizens acknowledged the efforts by both national and county governments to provide services, they nevertheless expressed frustration with widespread inefficiency, inconsistencies and institutional failures." The task force also found out that there is a slow adoption, or in some cases failure to embrace ICT-driven communications platforms. This is despite the fact that digital communication platforms are increasingly being used by the majority of the population, especially young people. "This creates the impression of a government that is out of touch with its constituents, still communicating through traditional media, primarily print and broadcast, whose influence and audience are declining." The report also shows that there is poor record-keeping, a move that has made the retrieval of government documents remain a nightmare for the public. Other key challenges faced by the government include weak public support for “Brand Kenya" as well as the marginalisation of persons living with disabilities This is because most government communication is published in formats that cannot be accessed by persons with audio-visual impairment, or have a print disability. "This is a barrier to their full participation in public life, employment, educational and recreational opportunities." Among the recommendations of the task force includes the reorganisation of the government public communications architecture. This will include the creation of a national Government Communications and Information Service. The GCS will coordinate all government communication, develop policies and plans, set standards, ensure quality control and eliminate duplication or contradictory messaging. Set to be headed by a director-general and domiciled at the Ministry Information, GCS will develop standards and skills for public communications. GCS will also communicate the position of government as one entity to citizens and other stakeholders. Other recommendations include revitalisation of government communication platforms and leverage on digital media, modernisation of the state broadcaster and the tapping of new technologies. Government communication workforce will have their skills strengthened. The task force also called for the review and realignment of contradictions in regulations and operationalisation of laws that support access to public information. It also called for depoliticising government policy saying the official policy statements of the government of the day should be separated from pronouncements that could be construed as politically partisan in their intent. “This is to avoid the danger of government policy being confused with the agenda of specific political parties or personalities.”