Kisumu residents can now breathe a sigh of relief after doctors called off their strike after reaching an agreement with the county government. The doctors who have been on strike for over three weeks on Saturday agreed with the county government over the implementation of their Collective Bargain Agreement. According to a statement by the Nyanza Branch Secretary of Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Board (KMPDU) Omweri Lameck, the doctors have been promoted to their correct job groups. Lameck noted that a total of 26 doctors have been scheduled for suitability interviews from 20th to 24th January as a requirement for further promotion. “Another 31 doctors on probation will be confirmed by the county public service board within the first quarter of 2020,”he said. He added that no doctor will be victimised as a result of the strike and full salaries for the same period will be paid on time. “All doctors are advised to pick their letters from the department of health at the county offices Monday and resume work within the next 48 hours,” Lameck stated. This year, doctors have kept off their work stations for several weeks. In June, the doctors went on strike over study leave, NHIF cover, non-remittances of statutory deductions and job stagnation. The current strike started on December 6 after the expiry of a 21-day notice they had issued on November 21. Last they advised the sick to either seek treatment in costly private health facilities or in neighboring counties where "doctors' issues are taken more seriously." Osuri stated: “It's not a favour the government is doing to us. It's our right and we deserve to be given the rights that we negotiated for with the county government, first in 2017 and on June 24, 2019.” He asked the people of Kisumu to understand that it's their government that is sleeping on the job and that the doctors are ready to resume work immediately the county government honours the CBA “Health is your right. Come out and force the county government of Kisumu to honour the CBA with the doctors so that you can get the services," he said.