Hundreds of passengers  were stranded in Mandera as police began strictly enforcing traffic rules. Three companies were affected in the crackdown, namely, Moyale Liner, Medina and Mecca bus services. Passengers on Sunday accused the government of implementing the laws over the Christmas festive session. They asked police to review their stand and allow them to travel and enjoy Christmas with their loved ones. The passengers said they traveled to the bus station only to be told the journey had been canceled by area security agents. Mutisya Muema, a casual worker who was traveling to his rural home in Machakos, regretted that the government chose to implement the rules "at the wrong time." "Does the government really know how stressful it is traveling in this part of the country? Do they think we enjoy the comfort that other passengers traveling to other parts of the country enjoy where there are plenty of vehicles?"Muema said. They vowed they not to take the fare refund but that bus companies organize for their travel to Nairobi. Subcounty police commander Richard  Ngetich said the government would not renege on protecting lives. Ngetich said all the buses to Nairobi are not traffic rules compliant. He said they lacked safety belts and were totally unroadworthy. Last week on Friday, Northeastern regional commissioner Mohamed Birik said no bus would be allowed to ply terror-prone Northeastern routes without a security escort. Birik said all drivers must comply to guarantee the safety of travelers on Garissa-Holugho, Garissa-Liboi and Garissa-Wajir roads, among other routes, all the way to Mandera. His warning came after 11 passengers were killed by suspected al Shabaab militants who ambushed a Mandera-bound bus in Kotulo area, Wajir county. The seven militants ordered the passengers out and grouped them into two — locals and non-locals - before attacking the latter. During the attack, nine of the victims escaped. Three of the escapees suffered serious gunshot injuries and bled to death in thickets. The eight non-locals who remained behind were ordered to lie face down and summarily executed. The attackers then ordered the locals to proceed with their journey. Birik said Garissa, Wajir and Mandera security and intelligence committees were under strict instructions to enforce the directive. “We don’t want to take chances with the lives of Kenyans. It is unfortunate that this directive has all along been there but bus operators seem to have ignored it. This time around we won't allow anyone to go scot free," he said.