When Raila Junior meets you, the first thing he will do is ask you countless questions about yourself. If you are a child, good luck getting past him without a high five or some simulated roughhousing. For Junior, there are no strangers; there are simply best friends and best friends he hasn't met yet. In both business and manner, he has always registered as smooth, sophisticated, and impeccably well-connected. But in person, the 40-year-old media production macher is far spikier and more complicated. He cleared his schedule on November 28 for a candid interview with the Star. Junior's father, ODM leader Raila Odinga, is one of the prolific politicians in Kenya whose name rings a bell in any corner of the world. His father's experience in the political scene has earned him a host of nicknames, ranging from; Tinga, Hummer, Agwambo, Baba, Jakom, Rao among others. Baba is his latest nickname which was given to him by his political cronies who considered him a political father. Junior who owns a media production house, dismissed claims that children born from rich families don't have to work hard. "Being the son of the former prime minister has not made life any different from a son of an ordinary Kenyan. I have to work very hard lest my family will lack," he says. "I wake up by 5 am, work from Monday to Friday. At the end of the day, I have school fees to pay, house bills to pay among other things." Many will say that Junior's household name -Odinga- makes it easy for him. "No it doesn't," he said."Going by my surname the expectations placed on me are much higher compared to expectations placed on other people doing the same job." MARRIED The father of one prides himself in providing for his families needs. "I have school fees to pay for my three-year-old son. I need to provide, If I go to my father's house to ask for money he will bombard me with questions on why I need the money,"he said. Junior, the fourth born of the special AU envoy, married Yvonne Wambui in 2011. "Wambui and I were childhood friends. We grew together fell in love and got married." In a past interview, Junior revealed the trying moments of his married life after trying to conceive a child for years to have a child without success. After five years of trying, lady luck finally struck and they got their firstborn son. “I hope she (Yvonne) will allow me to disclose this. We had been married for a long time and we weren’t able to get a child in the very first years. We struggled for a very long time for about four, five years and eventually God blessed us with our firstborn a son,” he said. DON'T DRINK During leisure time he enjoys playing golf, swimming or hanging out with family. He does not consume alcohol. "I used to enjoy alcohol in my youth but from 2012 he made a personal decision to quit alcohol," Junior adds.