Christmas is here and with it comes merrymaking festive season. Families congregate to attend reunions and enjoy a feast, usually of roasted goat, beef, chicken washed down with frothy dicks for those who are lovers of the bottle. Music, food and dance feature heavily in these celebrations, which usually emphasise family, communities and unity. Many are packing up to go upcountry hoping to catch up on lost time with their families back home. Everybody but the goats, cows and the chicken are excited about Christmas because we are always so busy that we rarely get time to sit down, relax and enjoy a decent meal. For those stuck in Nairobi, do not fret. Here are a few places in that you can go to celebrate Christmas and still have a fabulous time. CHURCH Christmas is the day when Christians commemorate the birth of Christ. Different churches in Nairobi including the All Saints Cathedral will have the watch-night service starting on Christmas Eve at 1 pm till December 25 at 1 am. Watch Night, which takes places on the night of New Year’s Eve, is a church service and is a time of deep reflection and introspection. It provides Christians with the opportunity to look back over the year that has passed, makes confession and prepare for the year ahead. These services originated through John Wesley, the founder of the Methodist Church. INDOOR ROCK CLIMBING This is for those looking for something really unique. Whether you are a professional or a first-timer, young or old, Blue Sky Climbing Gym located on Diamond Plaza will offer a great opportunity for indoor rock climbing for fun or practice. NATIONAL MUSEUM If you would like to know the history of Kenya and at the same time enjoy the beautiful photography exhibition, the Nairobi National Museum is the place to be. You can also take a nature trail and see a variety of animals and even shop for some nice household items at their gift shop. If a picnic is a better idea there is a botanical garden where you can do that. VILLAGE MARKET Village Market is home to 150 stores that range from restaurants, gift shops, beauty spas and so much more. They offer both local and international trinkets and a waterslide where kids can have fun. There is a bowling alley where you can go ham with your friends. The idea is that you can have many activities in one village HIKING Karura forest on Limuru Road is the complete package for anyone who loves nature. Karura will work for couples, families and even a group of families. Here you can hike in the forest and you can do this with your pets. Cycling is also something you could do and after all the walking cycling and hiking have a cute picnic. While there take photos in the wild to capture the memorable moments. GP KARTING If you are more into the thrill and high charged outdoor activities, go-karting. This will give you a chance to be Lewis Hamilton for a few minutes. While there be sure to take part in paintballing with your friends. After that, just cross over to Carnivore Restaurant for some good old ‘nyama choma’. KAREN BLIXEN The Karen Blixen Museum will give you first-hand experience of Karen Blixen’s home. The museum is packed with artifacts including the original equipment that she used in her coffee farm. You will also find the props that were used in the making of the film ‘Out of Africa’. You can enjoy the meals at their Restaurant and afterwards shop at their gift shop. WHISTLING THORN Whistling Thorns is a small, quiet and peaceful place located on the Kiserian-Isenya Pipeline road, overlooking the Ngong Hills. If you are looking for a get-away not far from Nairobi (private, quiet and romantic) Whistling Thorns is the place. Here you can enjoy 2-3 hours walks accompanied by a Maasai. There are birds around so you can bird watch. There is also a spa where you can have a fully body massage. 