Forward Byron Mabonga came off the bench late and scored the winning baskets as Ulinzi Warriors beat Thunder 67-63 to claim the 2019 Kenya Basketball Federation (KBF) national title on a 3-1 basis. "I was introduced in the game in the last minute just to ensure a strong defence and pull down the rebounds. I am happy  I did exactly what my team asked of me and we won this game and the title that was drifting away from our grasp. It proves I can do something," Mabonga said. Thunder seemed to cruise to the Game Four win as they took a 19-points advantage at the start of the last quarter. They were in control but the soldiers chased the game furiously, cutting points after points as Thunder struggled on offence. Two free shots by James Mwangi saw rampaging. Ulinzi closed in on Thunder 59-62 with 4:19 to play. Captain John Washika then tipped in a miss and a Mwangi basket gave Ulinzi a 63-62 cushion. But Thunder locked it 63-63 before Mabonga took over the duties. He blocked a key basket and hauled down another crunch rebound. Coach William Balozi said: " I told my players  the last time out that we needed this championship. I introduced Mabonga specifically to rebound and start a transition. I am gladmy tactics paid dividends." Ulinzi trailed 21-14 in the first quarter and were down 23-13 in the second.  When the last half started, they trailed by 17 points and the closest they came to Thunder was by reducing it by two points. As the last quarter started, Ulinzi were down by 19 points (60-41) and it seemed a huge mountain to climb. Thunder coach Collins Gaya said."It is all my fault. I made some late adjustments that did not help our cause at all. But I am proud of my boys and the effort they showed throughout the four games," he noted in a post-match interview. He continued, "Nobody expected us to play well without the injured Kevin Chogo, but we were awesome. I am disappointed but we will build on from there." Washika led the new champions with 13 points, Victor Bosire, named the Most Valuable Player (MVP) hit 12, Mwangi had 12 and Eric Mutoro 11. For Thunder Faheem Juma nailed game-high of 23 while playmaker Griffin Ligare contributed 12.  Thunder won Game One 57-71. Ulinzi locked it 1-1 with a 99-51 win before taking Game Three 123-106 iIn a hard-fought tie that went to double overtime of a brilliantly played best of five-game series.