Kenya Secondary School Sports Association (KSSSA) national games debutants Lelmokwo, Agoro Sare and Mbooni Boys have been nominated in the school team of the year (boys’ category) ahead of the 2019 Sports Personality of the Year Awards. The three schools now have a chance of rewriting the form book following memorable performances in 2019. Lelmokwo picked silver in boys’ volleyball for a maiden slot to the East Africa Games held in Arusha, Tanzania. On their part, Mbooni Boys were second in handball behind record national titleholders Kimilili, who are also in the running for the award. Mbooni also featured in football at the national level for the first time. Agoro Sare’s run in basketball saw them reach the national semis while their rugby 7’s team made their debut at the national championships. It will not be smooth sailing for the new kids on the block as they have the herculean task of muscling out the big boys for the award. Double rugby 15’s and 7’s titleholders Kakamega High and Upper Hill are some of the front-runners in the category. The two schools carried the day in their respective versions of the sport at the national and East Africa—producing Most Valuable Players (MVP) in the process. Also in the running for the award are Laiser Hill Academy, who retained their national basketball title and finished fourth at the East Africa Games. The school also picked silver at national and East Africa Games in rugby 7’s. Dagoretti High School will also be hoping to be on the podium despite missing gold in three disciplines. The school won silver in rugby 15’s both at the national and East Africa Games, silver in boys’ basketball at the national level and silver on their debut at the East Africa Games. 'Ditchez' as Dagoretti are referred to, also won silver in boys’ Under 19 football at the national level for a maiden ticket to the East Africa games, where they finished fourth. Other schools gunning for Soya glory include St Antony’s Boys, who won the national U-19 boys’ football title and reached the quarter-finals at the East Africa Games.  They also won gold in boys’ hockey at the national level and clinched silver at the East Africa Games