World Under-18 400m silver medallist Mary Moraa is longing to relive the excitement she put fans through during the 2017 IAAF World under 18 championships at Kasarani. Moraa is expected to line up in the  World Under 20 Championships set for Nairobi in 2020. Moraa received a standing ovation after leaving fans jubilant two years ago when she beat Alision Brendon and Tresse Reid from Brazil and Jamaica respectively to anchor Team  Kenya to the finals of the mix relays. She promised an even better performance next year and called on fans to turn up at the stadium to witness another exceptional run. “Kasarani was full. Everyone shouted, cheered and applauded my efforts when I defeated boys (Brendon and Tresse). I want to do the same when I line up at the stadium next year to give back the same exemplary display of my running skills to my fans,” promised the African U-20, 400m champion. The Mogonga Secondary School alumni said she has what it takes to run well at the championships. After winning silver in 2017, she went ahead to finish fourth at the World Under-20 Championships in Tampere, Finland before winning 2019 Africa U-20 title. “I have been training well for the title chase. I know it will not be easy because the name Moraa is big in the world of athletics,” she remarked. As she waits to join the  Kenya Police, Moraa said she has laid good ground to win her second gold and reclaim her position after finishing in a  disappointing 4th place at the junior championships last year. Moraa was optimistic that under the guidance of Kenya Police head coach Isaac Kirwa, she has powers to do even better. “I have to say Kirwa and his team visited my school and took me while I was a student to join the Police Service. That is the self-belief that a coach can impart to an athlete. Becoming a police officer was my dream,” said Moraa, admitting that she was equally approached by Kenya Prisons but respectfully declined. Kirwa was optimistic that Moraa has an exemplary talent that had to be harnessed to its full potential. “My work is to search for talents and when I saw her run well in national school championships, I knew I have a runner to fill a certain gap. And here she is,” enthused Kirwa.