The national women's volleyball team has suffered a setback after Sharon Chepchumba picked an ankle injury during training at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani yesterday. The team is preparing for the Africa 2020 Olympic Games qualifiers set for between January 4 and 9 in Yaoundé, Cameroon. The fast-raising Chepchumba sprained her ankle but head coach Paul Bitok remains optimistic that she will heal in time for the critical assignment in central Africa. He intimated that according to the team doctor, Charles Maina, Chepchumba should be able to resume full-time training in four days. "We have suffered a minor injury today (Sunday), but we are hopeful Chumba will recover in time for the competition. She is limping and cannot play completely. The doctor has assessed the situation and said she should be back in training in three to four days," noted Bitok, who recently joined Kenya Commercial Bank as head coach. In the meantime, outside hitter Jemima Siangu will make her debut at the international stage with the national women's volleyball team during the qualifiers. With the team that leaves Nairobi on January 3 for Yaoundé requiring four left attackers, an equal number of middle blockers, two each for right, libero players and setters, Kenya Commercial Bank's Siangu earns an automatic place in the team. After Kenya Prison's Pamela Masaisai was sidelined through a shoulder injury, Siangu,  a product of Soweto Academy in Kibera, Nairobi, is one of the four left attackers in camp thus making the cut. Captain Mercy Moim and KCB duo of Noel Murambi and Leonida Kasaya are the other three outside attackers, all assured of their places in the team. The fate of lethal left-handed attacker Violet Makuto who plays in both middle blocking and opposite positions will inform the coaches' decision of dropping either one centre player or a right hitter. If she is picked to travel as a middle blocker, then both Immaculate Chemutai and the fast-raising Chepchumba are assured of seats in the plane to Yaoundé. This would, however, spell doom for a middle blocker from among Edith Wisa, Gladys Ekaru, Carolyne Sirengo and Joan Chelagat. In the unlikely event that Makuto is axed, then the middle blocking quartet above alongside Chemutai and Chepchumba — ranked 24 in the world, will stay put. In the setting department, veteran setter Jane Wacu will vie for one of the two slots available against Joy Lusenaka who'll be seeking to make a return to the continental scene and newbie Esther Mutinda of Kenya Pipeline. Veteran libero player Elizabeth Wanyama will be hoping her display during the preparations would be what the technical bench are looking for for the forthcoming assignment. Only two slots are on offer for this position which Kenya's 2019 best libero Agripina Kundu and KCB's Lincy Jeruto are also in contention. Bitok, who is assisted by Japheth Munala and Josp Barasa added that training has been going on well and players have put up great displays in the hunt for slots in the final team. "Apart from today's (yesterday's) injury, we are doing well as we wait for the team manager to come and name the final 14 players," added Bitok.