Nine months ago, Rebecca Atieno was pregnant, homeless and jobless and her boyfriend had left her after he found out she was pregnant. One Thursday in March had begun with Atieno, 20, losing her job because she was in her last trimester and could not do her hotel job efficiently. Her landlord had kicked her out of lodging after she failed to pay Sh50 for the night. She was due in April and so when she sought rest under a tree in Uhuru Park, Nairobi, delivering her child was the least of her worries. However, moments later, she would, on her own, push out a baby girl, wrap her in her sweater and cut her umbilical cord with her sim card. Atieno's luck seemed to change after well-wishers donated about Sh70,000 through the Still A Mum Foundation and one Mama Amani volunteered to house her. Mama Amani offered to stay with Rebecca until she got on her feet and was able to support Baby Hope. "We have managed to get her an identification card, NHIF card and opened a bank account for her," Mama Amani said on the phone on Monday. "She and the baby have been doing great." However, the pressure of supporting Atieno has fallen solely on Mama Amani who is unable to provide her with all she needs to be stable. "I have appealed in the media before and there was no response. There is some money that Rebecca had been helped with before and it is in her bank account but it is only able to pay rent, deposit and medical insurance," Mama Amani said. While the money would help the young mother start a life, Mama Amani had no idea how Atieno would get finances for food, rent and upkeep after the money got depleted. Atieno is currently unemployed.  When the good Samaritan saw no help coming forth despite her pleas, she approached local beauty colleges and pleaded for help. "Rebecca has always said she wanted to do something in hair and beauty or hospitality, so I approached a few of them but only one has given us a positive response." She adds that although the paperwork is not complete, they are hoping she will get a full scholarship to the beauty college. "If she has the skill, she is able to braid someone's hair and get Sh200 she can use to feed herself and her child for that day," Mama Amani said. Atieno told The Star on the phone that she is willing to do part-time work to support her child. "I've been wanting to do hair and beauty. My only issue is where I will leave the child when I go to school and if the schedule for school can let me work," she said. She added she had been conned by a woman who had offered to have people send money through her because Atieno did not have a national ID. "The last time mum [Mama Amani] called her she said she was out of the country and she had spent the money but did not have any money to return," she said. "She has not been answering our calls since." Atieno hopes when she finishes school, she can start a business of her own. Edited by R.Wamochie