Two police officers were killed on Friday after their land cruiser ran over an improvised explosive device in Wajir. "Please be informed that today at around 1600hours special forces attached to Katulo Patrol Base while on their way from Khorof Arar on board their camp land cruiser were hit by an IED," reads a police report from Wajir Police Station. The attack left seven other officers with head, chest and back injuries, according to the report. Pictures show the land cruiser extensively damaged as a result of the explosion. The deceased are the driver and another officer in the rank of a Major. The Kenya Police headquarters is yet to issue a statement on the incident as has been a norm on such attacks. Areas between Ghorof, Katulo and Elwark are highly but nevertheless, police units conduct patrols in the areas despite the danger. On December 23, Katulo Special Forces cheated death after another IED that had been planted along Tarbaj-Katulo Road exploded. The officers were on foot patrols in areas of Wargadud and Dargut when the incident happened. The non-fatal IED explosion happened 24 hours after Al shabaab militants attacked a construction site at Hagarsu, Mandera East and destroyed an excavator, two rollers and a pressure pump all valued at Sh 39.8 million using an IED. Two watchmen escaped unhurt. On December 6, militants waylaid a Medina Bus and executed 11 passengers including eight police officers from Anti Stock Theft Unit (ASTU). The Star understands that police brass in Northern parts of the country and parts of Coast were briefed to remain alert over planned attacks during Christmas festivities. Intelligence reports indicated that the militants in two groups were targeting police officers. Despite the government purchasing Armoured Personnel Carrier (APC) and Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) vehicles, its still puzzling why officers are deployed in militant- infested routes in land cruisers. Scores of police officers have died this year of IED attacks in Kenya's North.