Teso North MP Oku Kaunya has told school heads in the constituency to support needy students' education. The MP said school heads in the subcounty should give poor parents adequate time to look for school fees for their children when schools open for first term in January. “We should help needy students further their studies because the only investment we can have as Teso North is to ensure our young ones get proper education,” he said. “I urge teachers not to send students home over school fees as time wasted at home by such students contributes to poor results.” Needy students, he said, spend a lot of time at home as their parents struggle to look for school fees hence low performance in some schools in the constituency. Kaunya spoke at St Joseph’s Kocholya Secondary School on Saturday when he toured the school to congratulate teachers following the institution’s good results in the 2019 KCSE. The MP said teachers should strive to ensure they complete the syllabus on time and prepare students for exams in advance to improve on results in 2020. He promised his administration will continue investing in education in order to register better results next year. St Joseph’s Kocholya broke record after producing its first A- in KCSE exams, 61 years after the school was started. The best student, Alvine Amunane, scored an A- and said he would be happy to pursue a degree in law since lawyers are some of his most admired role models. The school’s principal Fredrick Opiyo attributed the good results to discipline. “It is discipline and the teachers too worked as a team,” he said. “We are already hitting the ground hard because we are aiming at attaining grade A. For long, the community around the school thought it was difficult to get good results. This narrative has changed and I believe they now know that Kocholya can produce an A plain.” The institution’s chairman Sebastian Okiring said: “When we took over the leadership of the school’s board we had to ensure we streamline how things are done.”