Siaya Governor Cornell Rasanga has warned Alego Usonga MP Samuel Atandi against fronting Senator James Orengo for the county's governorship. Rasanga said it is a lack of respect to his office when a leader keeps on advocating for another to take over his position yet there is no vacancy. “Even when the Constitution says I have exhausted my terms, it’s very early for any form of campaign at the expense of service delivery,” Rasanga said. The county boss told Atandi to perform his duties as MP for Alego/Usonga instead of lowering his standard to being Orengo’s campaign manager. “Alego Usonga people have entrusted you with the leadership position. Stop telling them about 2022 elections at the expense of service delivery,” Rasanga said. Rasanga said the three years left in the current term are enough for any elected leader to make a change in his or her jurisdiction. The governor spoke during a meeting with Siaya ODM delegates at Ambrose Adeya Secondary School on Monday. Alego Usonga branch chairman John Orwenjo and secretary Paul Jura said the party had decided to crown Rasanga as their patron. Orwenjo said the position will allow Rasanga to give them direction on the suitable candidates to pick for office in the next election. He said Rasanga will work closely with local leaders to identify potential candidates who will ensure the sustainability of existing projects. “Rasanga will only exit if the BBI insists on two terms but if room is created for a third term, then we have no choice but to back him,” Orwenjo said. The party official said there was a tendency of senior politicians deciding for Siaya people through boardroom meetings who they want to run county affairs. “But we have now changed tact and vest those powers on Rasanga whose verdict shall be supreme,” Orwenjo said. Jura said that under Rasanga’s leadership, the constituency has remained united. Alego/Usonga MCAs noted that the era of enemies infiltrating the constituency to cause division by imposing leaders on the electorate is over. “It's ODM party that sponsored Atandi to Parliament and the seats he endorses candidates for, are not yet vacant. He needs to hold his horse and wait for the whistle to be blown,” MCAs chairman Silvester Madialo said. Others present were Obiero Otare (Township) Vincent Odawa (North Alego), Judy Okumu (West Alego), Joseph Mboha (South East Alego) and Winnie Otieno (Nominated). Madialo said that if Atandi defies the party directive and continues with his early campaigns, then he must prepare to lose his seat at the ballot box. “The MP has been confusing us with candidates who brought down institutions under the previous regimes. He either joins us in our bid or else he prepares for a rude shock at the polls,” Madialo said. (edited by O. Owino)