The law on clearance of candidates seeking elective posts has not been sufficiently developed, hence the challenges that spring up when trying to ensure only the right candidates are approved. It was expected that because of Article 10 on Values and Principles as well as Chapter Six on Leadership and Integrity, the Constitution of Kenya contemplated a situation where those who put their names forward for elections are men and women of integrity. One of the dilemmas in the Constitution is the precise implementation of Chapter Six. There have been attempts both by Parliament and the courts to enforce the chapter. But I think the country has not aligned these efforts towards the progressive expectations envisioned under Chapter Six. The area of candidate clearance is hazy in law, beginning with the constitutional and legal framework and also the institutional framework in terms of defining who is supposed to do what. Because the Independent Electoral and Boundaries  Commission (IEBC) presides over elections, the general development in law has been that the electoral commission clears candidates. But this is also the body expected to preside over elections, the same expected to supervise and manage those elections. The elections calendar in Kenya, once Parliament is dissolved, triggers a series of events that require serious operational preparations to successfully hold polls. Even if IEBC wanted to vet all candidates, the stringent timelines of the electioneering period cannot allow them to properly vet candidates. This has been the lacuna. This is, especially, in light of Governor Mike Sonko’s experience – and not just Sonko but other candidates in the 2013 and 2017 general election that had this problem or the other. Similar cases were reported in Taita Taveta, Garissa and in Kapseret MP elections. Moving forward, in terms of reform, this is the kind of challenge that calls for a review of the law with respect to the vetting of the candidates, not only in reinforcing the legal framework but also on the institutions tasked with the role. The review should include the tools the institutions should employ to vet candidates. It is something that requires a multi-agency approach involving the IEBC, the Directorate of Criminal Investigations, Registrar of Political Parties and potentially the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission. The elections expert spoke with the Star