With qualification to the knockout stages of the Cecafa Senior Challenge Cup already sealed, Harambee Stars are set to field a largely second string side when they take on Zanzibar. Two wins from as many matches has ensured Kenya remain on course to defend their crown. Assistant coach Zedekiah Otieno will once again be in charge of the team as Francis Kimanzi completes his technical bench and stadium banishment. Ulinzi Stars shotstopper Timothy Odhiambo, Kariobangi Sharks defender Dan Sakari as well as Mathare United duo of defender Andrew Juma and midfielder Roy Okal are some of the fringe players likely to be handed their first starts for the senior national side. The game is largely a dead rubber tie for Kenya who will finish top of Group ‘B’ regardless of the result in the match and the other clash pitting Sudan and Tanzania. Zico will, therefore, not sacrifice the unbeaten run by naming a full weakened squad. Tusker’s leading scorer Timothy Otieno is certain to lead Kenya’s attack against the Zanzibaris. The Vasalund midfielder Anthony Wambani is likely to return to the squad after getting better following illness. Wambani revealed the desire within the squad to retain their regional title amidst the looming challenge of the hosts Uganda who topped the other group. “It has been a good experience with the camp in Nairobi and here in Uganda with my teammates,” he stated. “Of course everyone is focused. No one knows what will happen because this is football; but we are ready to defend our title,” he said in the build up to the duel this afternoon. The match between the two sides will be a repeat of the 2017 final where Kenya prevailed on post match penalties to claim their 8th regional crown overall. Though Harambee Stars have already made sure of qualification,the other semi final slot is up for grabs. Tanzania with three points are favourites to clinch it. Kilimanjaro Stars have three points on board and should they avoid defeat, they will book a date with the hosts on Tuesday next week.  