Kitui politician Josphat Mulyungi may have forgiven powerful Kanu operatives for almost breaking up his family and losing his job, but he has not forgotten. Mulyungi, 70, during an interview in Kitui, recalled with bitterness how he was harassed, harangued and tormented for his political beliefs and fight for good governance in the 1980s and 1990s. “I appeared to have rubbed the then Kanu regime under former President Daniel arap Moi the wrong way when I joined leaders agitating for the end of autocratic rule and the reintroduction participatory multiparty democracy,” Mulyungi said. Having married Stellamaris Martha in 1969, he was a bubbling young man enjoying his second decade of marriage when the Kanu tormentors targeted him. “What I went through nearly bungled my job and broke up my young family,” he said. Mulyungi spoke to the media after celebrating the 50th anniversary of his marriage at his Kandwia home, Kyuso, in Mwingi North subcounty in Kitui last Saturday. He ran into trouble with the Moi administration while working as the Kitui Catholic diocese development coordinator. He said were it not for a very understanding boss, the late Bishop William Dunne, and wife, his life could have been ruined. “My wife and young children were very understanding and bore with me all the while as Kanu men tried to finish me. My bishop also knew I was fighting for a worthwhile cause and thus stood with me through thick and thin,” Mulyungi said. “I was not only arrested, detained in police cells and later hauled into court on trumped up charges of owning seditious Pambana publications, being a member of illegal Mwakenya and holding illegal assembly on two occasions but was put on the radar and constantly trailed by the Special Branch,” he said. Mulyungi attributed his tribulations in the hands of  Kanu to his interests to dislodge then Kanu strongman and  MP  for Kitui North Kalonzo Musyoka. He knew Kalonzo was a bosom friend of President Moi and any threat to his political career had to be crushed. “If my wife was not strong, my family could have fallen apart when the Kanu regime branded me a Mwakenya adherent kicking off nearly two decades of constant humiliation,” he said. "Special Branch officers raided our house in Kitui town at 3am in the dead of the night causing mayhem by upsetting everything as they searched for the imaginary Pambana publications,” he said. Mulyungi further recalls that in the early 1990s as community members gathered in his farm to harvest maize, police led by then Kyuso DO  David Amdany arrested him and five others. He said he was later hauled to a Mwingi court alongside other suspects for fictitious charges of holding an illegal assembly. He said the charges were shortly after dropped  by the state and they were set free.