Criminals who steal livestock in Nyandarua will be shot on sight, county commissioner Boaz Cherutich has said. The instruction has been issued to the police and should be carried out appropriately, the administrator said. Speaking during Jamhuri Day celebrations at Githinji Primary School in Magumu, Kinangop, Cherutich said livestock thieves have been impoverishing residents for a long time. They went into hiding a few months ago following a crackdown by police but were returning owing to high demand for meat in Nairobi and Nakuru this festive season, Cherutich warned. “This time there will be no mercy. When caught by the police, don’t blame anybody. There will be no more arresting and begging you to stop stealing," Cherutich said. He said many farmers have lost sheep to the thieves as it is easy to load them in getaway vehicles and speed off. A few days ago, Cherutich said, criminals who stole eight sheep from Ndaragwa were pursued by police after residents raised an alarm and were caught at Bahati in Nakuru county. The sheep were returned and the vehicle towed to the police station. The suspects will face the law, he said. On Wednesday night, Cherutich said, an attempt to steal 12 cows from Mirangine in Ol Kalou was thwarted after the owner raised an alarm prompting swift action by police before the animals could be loaded into a lorry. He said the thieves cut the fence but the owner called the assistant chief who notified the police. Governor Francis Kimemia said requisite measures must be taken against the thieves. He assured the security agencies that they have his backing in whatever they have to do to eradicate the vice adding that no one will be spared. “You (police) cannot allow people to continue stealing cows as if they were born with them. We cannot allow our county to be like that. We must unite and work with all the security agencies to deal with these thugs,” he said. Further, Kimemia urged the commissioner to revive Nyumba Kumi and Community Policing initiatives which he noted have for some time been inactive. The revival, he said, will enable the locals to play a major role in their own security. The governor urged the residents to rush to their neighbours’ rescue in case of a distress call, noting in some areas, people leave their neighbours to fate when attacked by criminals. Edited by R.Wamochie