It was a year clouded with uncertainty for the Kenya National Union of Teachers that has faced increasing resistance from within and hostility from outside quarters. For years, Knut was distinguished as the megaphone for teachers but with each passing day its voice and clout become fainter. In early 2019 the union had slightly more than 187,000 members. That was its heyday, and it wasn't long ago. By November, membership has fallen to 106,000 members, pushing it to the brink of an epic collapse. The megaphone is sounding like a voice in the wilderness. Today all that remains of this once-thriving union is a heap of court battles and plenty of animosity. Trouble started earlier in the year when Knut declared its opposition to the new Competency-Based Curriculum (CBC). Led by secretary general Wilson Sossion, the union argued that the time was not ripe for its implementation, saying resources were far below the recommended standards. Knut also opposes training of teachers in the new curriculum, saying implementation has not been anchored in law and that stakeholders have not been sufficiently consulted. Training so far is far from adequate and many teachers don't understand the curriculum, it says. Sossion asked teachers to boycott implementation of the new curriculum and revert to the 8-4-4 system. He also teachers to boycott of teacher training on the curriculum in August. Sossion was was nominated to the National Assembly by ODM, to represent the interests of teachers. The union's resistance angered new Education CS George Magoho who promised to crush those opposed to implementation of CBC. Magoha called implementing the curriculum his top priority and said President Uhuru Kenyatta was keen to see the implementation take hold. The abrasive Sossion made enemies in high places by opposing the curriculum and the training. They include the President, Magoha and the teachers' employer, the Teachers Service Commission. Sossion's hard stance made him a man under siege. A quarter of union leaders tried to remove him, saying his leadership style was abrasive and bad for the union. In November, the TSC tried without success to end Sossion's teaching career. It formally delisted him from the Teacher's Register. This caused a storm within the union as a segment of the leadership backed his removal, calling him the source of the union's troubles. Delisting him was seen as a hard-ball response by the TSC, which had failed to force him to relinquish his position as secretary-general following his nomination as MP. His nomination to Parliament sparked a vicious standoff with the TSC. Knut's troubles escalated after the TSC announced plans to terminate 51-year-old agreement with the union, citing shrinking membership and declining relevance. Nancy Macharia, the TSC chief executive, said the commission intended to terminate in 60 days as Knut lacked the majority of teachers employed by the TSC in its register and therefore could not be recognised as a union. However, both decisions have been blocked by the Labour Relations Court. Exodus Soon after signing the 2017-21 collective bargaining agreement, there was a falling out between the union and the employer over various elements that the TSC calls essential to improve teaching and learning. Top among the directives opposed by the union are teacher performance appraisal and development tools, performance contracting that replaced classroom registers and teacher work plans to assess quality of teaching. But it was a court ruling in favour of Knut in August that worsened the situation, leading to a massive walkout by the membership. The case pitting the TSC against the union challenged the teacher performance appraisal documents introduced in 2017 by the employer. The result was that the TSC ran two parallel payrolls — one for Knut members and the other for those not affiliated to the union. This disadvantaged Knut. The fear of deductions to recover monies following the implementation of the CBA two years ago led to the mass exit. Teachers argue they feel threatened if they defy what they consider to be injustice, saying they will be met with tough disciplinary measures, such as interdicton. At the centre of Sossion's differences with the TSC and the ministry are new directives meant to enhance teaching quality. Other issues are the five major policies that came to force with the 2017-21 CBA, including performance appraisals and contracting. (Edited by V. Graham)