Residents of Mbwajumwali village, Lamu East, have seven days to produce those who murdered two administrators in their office a week ago — or the GSU will be ordered to hunt them down. The directive was given by Coast regional coordinator John Elungata when he visited the crime scene on Tuesday. Mbwajumwali location chief Mohamed Famau, 45, and Myabogi assistant chief Athman Shee, 43, were hacked to death in their office by unknown assailants on Wednesday last week. The two attackers who wore buibuis — Islamic dress — and veils. The police said sich a daring ttack had never before been witnessed in the region. Elungata told Mbwajumwali villagers rampant merciless attacks and murders of the police and administrators in the region must stop. He said if the seven-day ultimatum lapses before the killers are produced, the government will have no option but to deploy the fearsome General Service Unit. The regional boss cited the murder of Mbwajumwali chief Mohamed Shee in 2016, that of Red Cross Volunteer Amina Bakari in April this year and the gruesome murder of Constable Hesbon Okemwa. “There is this growing trend where our officers are being targeted and killed by criminals here. We definitely won’t take it lying down. We are giving you seven days to tell us who killed these two officials, failing which I will deploy the GSU." Elungata dismissed claims that the two administrators were killed by al Shabaab terrorists and instead reiterated earlier sentiments by the Lamu county commissioner that drug barons were behind the deaths. He has appealed to the community to volunteer information that will help in the speedy arrest of the assailants. Detectives have narrowed their investigations to down to five suspects believed to have played a major role in the murder. “A woman washing clothes outside her house adjacent to the ill-fated office, we believe she was looking out for them. We also have two men who are believed to have been standing guard outside the office as the two were being killed," Elungata said. "There is also a man who apparently witnessed the whole thing and only fled when he saw the of the chiefs struggle with his attackers outside the office before he was overpowered and killed. We are telling these people to either surrender or wait for the wrath of the law." He directed that a police post be established in Mbwajumwali and officers deployed. (Edited by F'Orieny)