The ODM party has threatened action against its Nairobi MCAs who are allegedly taking advantage of the leadership crisis at City Hall to solicit bribes. ODM Nairobi chairman George Aladwa said the party is considering reprimanding, de-whipping, or recommending the expulsion or suspension of rogue members. In a letter to the MCAs through assembly’s minority leader David Mberia, the party’s leadership said they are aware some are taking advantage of the instability to ask for kickbacks “We, as ODM leadership in Nairobi county are concerned that our members in the Assembly have resorted to the reckless pursuit of self-aggrandisement at the expense of the general public welfare and disregard for the ODM party position, ” reads part of the December 27 letter. The letter adds, “You are hereby instructed to rein in the wayward members with immediate effect. Kindly, note that if the affected members do not stop immediately, the party shall without further notice commence disciplinary processes against them.” The Star has established that some of the ODM ward reps have abandoned party positions especially on the impeachment of the besieged Governor Mike Sonko. They have openly sided with him, while some were part of a controversial trip to save the county boss. Sonko’s ouster bid pushed by ODM MCAs has also got the support of a considerable number of MCAs from the majority Jubilee side. It is this mixed reaction by the MCAs that has caught the attention of the ODM’s leadership which now wants action taken against members not living the party’s position. “The ODM County Coordinating Committee has observed the behaviour of Members of the Nairobi County Assembly elected on the Party ticket or Party list with interest. “You are further instructed to remind members that Party sponsorship is a privilege that can be withheld to loyalty and discipline,” Aladwa, who is the Makadara MP, said. Last week, a section of ODM MCAs gave Speaker Beatrice Elachi a seven-day ultimatum to convene a special sitting or be removed. The minority side had written to the speaker requesting a special sitting, but she ruled that the letter did not provide sufficient grounds.