A group of politicians from Mt Kenya has affirmed its loyalty to President Uhuru Kenyatta amid speculations of a shift in allegiance to Deputy President William Ruto. The MPs who spoke to the Star maintained that the President was still the region's political kingpin despite a charm offensive from his second-in-command. The leaders termed as blowing out of proportion isolated incidents without looking at the bigger picture “I think you are reading to much into some of these issues. The President is our region's political commander. We as leaders from the region are firmly united behind him,” said Paul Koinange, MP Kiambaa. Koinange, who chairs the National Assembly committee on Security and National Administration, said they will adhere to the President's counsel to stick to development. “The President himself has told us to stick to development matters and desist from premature 2022 campaigns. Some of us have made the decision to follow the wise counsel by the President,” he said. There have been speculations that the President is getting increasingly isolated in his own Central backyard, with concerns that the majority of the region's MPs could have shifted allegiance to Ruto. The growing fears came to the fore on Sunday when 12 Mps of the 15 lawmakers from the county skipped the President's church fundraiser in Kiambu county. Only Simon King'ara, Senator Kimani Wamatangi and nominated Senator Isaac Mwaura accompanied the President to the function at St Francis of Assisi Catholic parish in Ruiru constituency. The MPs' snub of the President's event attested to the growing open rebellion against Uhuru who last week lashed out at them for too much politicking. Gatundu South Moses Kuria who hails from Kiambu chose to instead accompany Ruto for a series of church meetings in Makueni, Embu and Nyeri counties. Yesterday Kiambu Woman Representative Gathoni Wamuchomba said the region is still intact behind the President. “There is no problem if the President one day decided to walk quietly into a church anywhere across the country for worship. People are just blowing this issue out of proportion,” she said. However, some of the MPs from the county claimed that no invites had been sent to elected leaders to accompany the President for the church service. Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichung'wa wondered why people could imagine he skipped the service when he was not aware of it in the first place. "I would have been happy to join our President in the work of building the Lord's house," he added. The National Assembly's Budget and Appropriations Committee Chairman said he was out of the country on official duties. Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu warned there were some people who trying to advance what he termed as “faulty and false” narratives on the President's grip of the region. “Let no one be cheated: leaders from Mt Kenya are behind the President and would work closely with him to ensure that he delivers on his agenda,” he said. Ruto has heightened tours of the Mt Kenya region and has been attracting  Jubilee MPs towards his side as he intensifies forays with his eyes fixed on the 2022 presidential contest. The high number of Jubilee Mps from Central Kenya oscillating around Ruto has triggered speculations that they could have abandoned the President as debate on the Building Bridges Initiative gathers storm.