The government has issued a directive to principals of Technical Vocational Education and Training Institutions with less than 600 students by September 2020 that they will be sacked. Speaking during the recruitment of students to join various TVETs in Western region from Bumula subcounty, technical education director Tom Mulati said all training institutions should have over 600 students to meet the target set by the government. “Even if you were posted to a technical training institution yesterday, make sure you have 600 students to protect your job or else you will be sacked. Recruit enough students now,” Mulati said. He called on the students who didn’t join universities to take up science, engineering and technology courses because they are marketable. “I encourage many of you to take science, engineering and technology courses because that is where the world is heading to. I ask girls to venture into engineering like building and civil engineering courses, mechanical, electrical engineering for you to succeed. Traditionally they were considered only for men,” he said. A total of 2,840 students were recruited at Bumula stadium to join various technical institutions and take up different courses as follows: Sigalagala (258), Sang’alo (399), Bungoma North (28), Bushangala (71), Riat (351), Okame (100), Bumbe (17), Musakasa (1,072), Shambarere (251), Kisiwa (281) and Webuye West (12). Mulati said fewer girls were enrolling in such courses and called on them to take advantage of the opportunity and favourably compete men. He pointed out that TVET institutions were offering courses like building and construction, electrical engineering, hair dressing and beauty therapy, food and beverage that can earn one a living right away. “In TVET institutions we don’t believe that there are no jobs. What we need is an entrepreneurial mind and we can scout for opportunities in good environments,” he said. Bumula constituency has Musakasa and Maurice Otunga technical training institutes. Mulati asked secondary school principals to release the certificates of former students whose documents are still held because of fee arrears. “If you are withholding students' KCSE certificates you are going against the presidential directive and you will be disciplined,” he said. Mulati stated that the government needs 100 per cent transition of students from secondary schools to universities and colleges. He stated that the students will benefit from the government funding to enable them carry on with their courses. This includes capitation of Sh30,000 and Helb funding of Sh40,000 yearly. Bungoma deputy governor Charles Ngome stated that it was only education that would help kick out poverty. “For you to live a good life, value education. Education defines your future because you will secure a job that will change your fortunes,” he said. He called on parents to support their children’s talents because they could define their future. “If your child is an artist, support him. If they are good in anything, let’s market and expose them so that they can land opportunities that can help them in future,” Ngome said. Bumula MP Mwambu Mabonga said he would make sure recruitment of students is an annual event so that many of them can take TVET courses and better their lives. “We must empower youths by enrolling them in technical courses or else we are sitting on a volcano that is ready to erupt any time and it will be dangerous to the society,” he said.