Good morning, A major confrontation is looming over the implementation of the Building Bridges Initiative report amid an uproar that the process had been hijacked by a parliamentary committee controlled by supporters of DP William Ruto. The Star has established that the Constitutional Implementation Oversight Committee has organised a four-day retreat to Mombasa to discuss the report before it’s formally introduced in Parliament. Here are the other stories making headlines in the Star this morning. Rain-triggered disasters, including flash floods and landslides, have killed at least 132 people and affected nearly half a million others across the country since October. Homes have been demolished, crops destroyed and roads swept away during an unusually severe rainy season.   Kenya is at risk of losing its chancery in London following an ownership row pitting the country against the lessor of the property at 45 Portland Place. It is not clear whether Kenya has ownership or tenancy of the building with the latest indications that the 45-year lease expires on October 10, 2021.  he government will from next month fully pay sub-county school fees for over 600,000 learners who sat this year's KCPE exam. The institutions are mainly day secondary schools. The government has set capitation to secondary school at Sh22,244 for each learner.  The amount is similar to the fee charged in day schools.  The growing middle class in Kenya is increasingly opting for junk foods on speed dial for convince, accelerating the growth of food delivery expected to rise 50 per cent next year. Jumia Food Index released yesterday showed that chicken, pizza and burger top the foods ordered by residents in middle income estates in Nairobi, Mombasa and Nakuru. Nairobians will continue to brave floods and stagnant water during rainy seasons because City Hall does not have the massive funds needed to revamp the drainage system. The old drainage was designed to serve less than 500,000 people but the city population have since ballooned to about five million. 