Seven teams will represent Kenya at the Africa Zone 4.4 Youth Under-16 Team chess Championships from tomorrow all through to December 12 at the Luke Hotel, Nairobi. Three of the seven local outfits are drawn from Makini School while Uganda, Tanzania and South Sudan are the other countries that have fielded a team each. The event is a qualifier for the World Youth Under-16 Chess Olympiad set for 2020. Chess Kenya (CK) President Bernard Wanjala said the numbers will help Kenya qualify for the world showpiece. “We just want to have the best representation at the event and increase our chances for winning the regional title and a ticket to the age group Olympiad. Surely with all these teams, we cannot miss the title,” said Wanjala. CK have sponsored one team- Blitzkrieg which comprises of Candidate Masters Aguda Agunda of Consolata School, Light House Chess Club pair of  CM Jeff Gichuki and Mercy Ingado, Timothy Mwabu and Tracy Mboya. They will be coached by developmental instructor Maxwell Juma. The teams are made up of five players- three boys and two girls and as it is, South Sudan are the only side which failed to raise female players hence they have entered three participants only. They are Chol Mach, Adol Makuach and Yaak Garang and will be under coach Peter Diing. “South Sudan is a conservative society and they don’t encourage women’s participation in sports. And this has been their trend even in the Olympiad,” he added. Anthony Kionga will guide all the three lineups from Makini. The first side has Johnpaul Betangi, Reuben Githaiga, Jogn Howard, Cassie Wanjiku and Holiness Kerandi as the second drew Tyrell Hongo, Davis Misiko, Gabriel Munyao, Elaine Moturi and Tivona Gina. The last entry from Makini is a team made up of Nimit Minu, David Were, Maria Wakihuri, Melissa Wadoi and Nissi Kerandi.  The second Kenyan side, the Tritinite Stars comprises of Vedhika Sheshadri, Sanjay Ramesh CM Gosrani Reeyan, twins- Janki and Janvi Nipul, both of whom are Woman CM. The quintet will be tutored by Sathya Latha. Kenya 3, dubbed Stormy Knights is made up of Robert Mcligeyo, Samuel Wanjala, Nikita Ameetkumar, Viraj Bhaveshu and Women Fide Master Krishi Shah. They will be under the tutelage of Joseph Methu. Kenya 4- Kifaru- has Pascal Kiptoo who was initially drafted in CK’s team, Vyom Kunjal, Aristone Edagiza, Petra Ayal and Wakiuri Rose and will be coached by Ian King. The Ugandan players are Janice Namiiro, Matthew Mwase, Sharif Ssenabulya, WCM Maria Nakanyike and Victor Kanyike under coach Faruk Kizza. The Tanzanian side, coached by Vaibhavi Chheda, drew Bertha Mkude, Agrawal Sheesh, Shedrack Lukako, Hassuji Taher andPrisha Chheda.