At least 80 illegal and badly run chemists have been closed in Nairobi and Kajiado in an ongoing crackdown. Some of them may have been selling controlled drugs that are abused in Nairobi and used in drugging crimes. The Pharmacy and Poisons Board said 48 owners of some of the promises have been arraigned. Ten pleaded guilty and were fined between Sh50,000 to Sh200,000. Those who did not plead guilty were given court bonds of Sh200,000 awaiting the court process. PPB senior inspector of drugs Julius Kaluai said some of the chemists were selling Part I poisons illegally. Part I poisons are highly refined products that must be dealt with under the supervision of a pharmacist. They include substances like codeine, cocaine, coca and hormones among others. “Others were operated by pharmacists or pharmaceutical technologists who are not registered with PPB,” he said. Other premises were not registered at all and therefore there was no assurance the medicines being sold were fit. “All the drugs seized will be handed over to PPB for safe disposal,” he said. Nairobi regional commissioner Wilson Njega said police will carry out re-inspection to ensure the 80 facilities remain closed. “The government is also adopting a multi-agency approach to ensure that all illegal pharmaceutical outlets in the country are closed down,” he said. PPB inspector Elijah Mburu said all registered chemists have a unique code placed at a visible position upon entry into the facility. All practitioners are required to display their licence. Mburu told Nairobi residents to report chemists operating without the safety code by calling 0702475824 adding that the SMS code is toll-free. In Nairobi, the PPB said that only 1,889 outlets have been captured in their system. In September last year, the Pharmacy and Poisons Board closed down 83 chemists and pharmacies and arrested 83 illegal operators in Central, Upper and Lower Eastern regions. At that time, Kaluai said the operation lasted one week. In Central, 37 illegal pharmacies were closed down and 37 operators arrested. “In the Lower Eastern, Machakos, Makueni and Kitui, 23 illegal pharmacies were closed down. For Upper Eastern, Meru Tharaka Nithi and Embu and Isiolo, 23 illegal pharmacies were closed down,” Kaluai said. He said some of those arrested have pleaded guilty adding that some of the premises they raided were closed and owners ran away. The fines are from 60,000 upwards. “We will keep surveillance to ensure those that avoided inspections will be monitored to establish why they were closed," he said. Kaluai said said some of the pharmacies were selling drugs in wholesale without dealer licences which is illegal. No fake or expired drugs were found.