By Geoffrey Kibisu Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru has issued cheques worth Sh55 million to fund agricultural development activities within the county. The cash will be used to improve poultry, dairy, avocado and tomato value chains. A total of 159 organised community groups including 40 for the vulnerable and marginalised will benefit. The agricultural value chain programme is a collaboration between the county government and the National Agricultural and Rural Inclusive Growth Project (NARIGP). The activities being funded fall under the county’s ‘Wezesha Kirinyaga’ programme. In the poultry value chain alone, Sh15.9m will be given to 37 community groups for mass production of eggs. The poultry project is aimed at increasing productivity of layers and profitability leading to improved livelihoods. The county government has built 37 poultry houses for the groups as a way of guaranteeing health and safety standards during production. To assist the farmers further achieve their production estimates, the county government will provide quality chicken feeds for six months for free. The farmers will also get free chicken vaccines for six months and adequate technical advice and support on chicken rearing. Group members will be involved in day to day running of the project. Farmers are also guaranteed a ready market once the chicken start laying. All the eggs collected will be marketed and sold by Kirinyaga Investment Development Authority (KIDA) thus guaranteeing an income for the farmer. Each of the groups will get 1,250 chicks that are estimated to lay 1,000 eggs per day. A group can, therefore, make at least Sh10,000 per day and about Sh300,000 per month by selling one egg at Sh10. The poultry project will create employment to the youth such as in the transportation of eggs from the villages to the collection centre and to the markets. After collection from the villages, the eggs will be taken to a storage facility from where KIDA will collect them for marketing. The county will reduce the cost of production by manufacturing quality and affordable chicken feeds at the county’s Kiaga Animal Feeds Factory. The egg project was informed by the existing gaps in local egg production, which makes Kenya import eggs from Uganda. The project was considered after a study by the department of agriculture established its viability in the county. Some of the targeted markets for the eggs include public institutions such as hospitals and schools, restaurants, supermarkets and other retail and wholesale outlets. Poultry production is expected to thrive in the county due to favourable climatic conditions and maximisation of small pieces of land. Individual group members are encouraged to replicate the project in their homes after learning best practices from the group project.