Some operatives at State House and Harambee House are not happy with the way some events panned out at the Jamhuri Day garden party. Two of them were overheard on Thursday evening at an uptown restaurant complaining that DP William Ruto needs to stop stealing the show. While the President was going around, saying hi to guests, there were loud cheers for the DP whenever he approached. They said the only reason Uhuru was not embarrassed was that the DP positioned himself at a distance. The two operatives could not understand how a guest list drawn up by State House and OP could contain so many Ruto enthusiasts. A governor from one of the largest counties having sleepless nights. He is facing various investigations from the EACC and the Serious Crime Unit of the DCI. He might be the fourth governor to join the 'Babayao Club' after Nairobi’s Mike Sonko. He has employed over 1,200 irregularly, with over 10 advisors and 25 political failures from his own clan. They include a former official of a religious group whispered to be 'earning' two salaries. The governor is said to be focussed on bribing authorities not to take any action against his administration. Insiders say county coffers are always dry for it's a cash cow for the officers assigned to investigate it. Some resident are praying to see their governor behind bars. A legislator from an Eastern is under siege. The youthful member of Parliament has sacked half his staff. Those who have been sent home include those said to be his very close associates. Corridors of Power has learnt the MP sacked his inner circle without notice after they leaked information his relatives have been getting all construction tenders from NG-CDF. They include shoddily built school toilets that have collapsed under heavy rains. One such toilet was built by the MP's wife. When this information leaked, the MP sacked staff he believed could have shared the damaging information with members of the media and bloggers. Was a senior Nairobi county official blocked from State House? Corridors of Power understands that State House operatives were under firm instructions to lock out the official during the Jamhuri Day after-party celebrations. The official is accused of being busy positioning himself in the county's succession politics and power games instead of serving Nairobians. There are further instructions to make sure the official is kept at arms' length during public events attended by President Uhuru Kenyatta. It is only a matter of days before the official is publicly embarrassed as state operatives cut him down to size.