Homa Bay child welfare stakeholders have created a WhatsApp group to report cases of early pregnancy, defilement and the molestation of minors in the county. The WhatsApp group named ‘Mimba za Mepema Marufuku Homa Bay (early pregnancies banned) was formed to counter the high rate of teen pregnancies in the county. Members in the social media group are drawn from the Judiciary, children's department, Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Education and other stakeholders. Homa Bay county commissioner Herman Shambi said the members are advised to use the platform to report any cases they come across for swift action. The teen pregnancy rate in Homa Bay is 33 per cent, the second-highest in the country. Shambi said that there was a worrying trend in the violation of children’s rights in Homa Bay hence a need for concerted efforts to curb it. The administrator said local chiefs are tasked to collaboratively work with people at the grassroots to source information on violation of child rights. They are expected to post such information on the WhatsApp platform before the relevant authorities take up the case. “Members of this WhatsApp group are expected to have good rapport with residents to obtain such information. Molestation cases would be addressed expeditiously,” Shambi said. Shambi spoke to journalists during a workshop by USAID funded project dubbed ‘Mwendo’ which provides care for orphans and vulnerable children on Monday. He appealed to parents and children to cooperate with officials to reduce early pregnancies to zero. The commissioner said they want to eliminate cases where some parents and suspects settle defilement cases outside courts. “We want parents in Homa Bay to be responsible people and ensure all cases of child rights violation are given judicial determination,” he added. Mwendo Project chief of the party Dorcas Amolo said they are conducting a door-to-door sensitisation drive for parents in the county on the protection of children’s rights. “We’re advising parents on how to monitor the movement of their children. They are encouraged to report to us when they see changes in their children's behaviour,” Amolo said. (edited by O. Owino)