2019 has been great for the entertainment industry. We've seen the rise of a new genre, Gengetone, and global recognition of local fashion designers. Sportswise, marathoner Eliud Kipchoge made us proud. But what does the future hold for the entertainment industry? Well, here are just some of the names you should look out for that promise to go big in 2020. SOL GENERATION Sauti Sol, made up of Bienaime, Savara, Chimanao and Polycarp, introduced their record label, Sol Generation, in late 2018, where they signed singer Bensoul. In 2019, they signed Nviiri, Kaskazini and Crystal Asige. The artistes were introduced in the song 'Extravaganza', which topped music charts. Since then, Bensoul has made headlines with songs like 'Lucy', 'Niombee' and 'Favourite Song'. Nviiri, on the other hand, released the hit songs 'Pombe Sigara', 'Overdose' and 'Fore'. Kaskazini recently released their single under Sol Generation, 'If I Had Your Number'. In 2020, Sol Generation promises fans an album and an exclusive Sol Generation festival. This is according to a past interview by Word Is with Bensoul. ERIC OMONDI He is known for his comedy, which put him on the map when he made his debut at Daniel Ndambuki's Churchill Show. Omondi has been riding solo since he left the show and it seems success keeps following him. In 2019, he not only trended but was also followed by controversy. Omondi is not only known for his hilarious jokes but also his personal life. In 2019, he called it quits with his long-time girlfriend Chantal Grazioli. Omondi is a media darling and it seems next year, it's all about more success and less controversy. NEOMI NG'ANG'A 'Style By Neomi' is Neomi Ng'ang'a's fashion house. The star, who doubles up as an actress, not only dresses other celebrities on the red carpet but also dresses people on set. This year, Neomi has also dressed plus-size models, while making a change in how people see beauty. PASCAL TOKODI He is a singer and an actor but in 2019, his acting career dominated, as he scooped a Kalasha award for the Best Male Actor in a TV drama series. His role as 'Nelson' in the drama 'Selina' has propelled his popularity across the East African film market. Pascal Tokodi is definitely a personality to watch out for. DJ DII Dii has taken this male-dominated career by storm. She has spun in most Kenyan events and concerts with clubs booking her for shows. Dii is quite promising, having been in the industry for years. HUDDAH MONROE She was recently featured by international magazine Bazaar. Her cosmetic line is one of the most sold products in Kenya, and she continues to introduce more products to the market. CHEF ALI His love for food has made him known over the years. This year, Chef Ali showcased his tremendous cooking skills on national TV and as always, he doesn't disappoint. Did I mention his YouTube channel that is an answer to any recipe? Probably a cookbook would also do wonders, but 2020 looks just perfect for him.