The US government has promised to increase support to Nandi, Baringo and Elgeyo Marakwet counties to improve health and HIV-Aids services. US Ambassador Kyle McCarter made an extensive tour of the three counties and met their governors. The Nandi Hills Sh20 million Integrated Out-Patient Comprehensive Care Centre (CCC) at Nandi Hills County Hospital was constructed with Pepfar funds from the US. The facility will improve services to more than 10,000 mothers and children and more than 4,000 people living with the HIV virus. “We are proud of the support we continue to receive from the US government, especially in improving health services. Ambassador McCarter's visit signifies greater ties to benefit our people,” Nandi Deputy Governor Yulita Mitei said. She represented Governor Stephen Sang. The county is completing the Kapsabet Mother and Baby Hospital complex with ore than 300 beds. It will have a High Dependence Unit, Intensive Care Unit and an Emergency and Response Unit. It will have state-of-the-art theatres and a cancer screening centre. Governor Sang’s administration is keen on ensuring all patients are treated within the county and not referred to other areas. The Nandi Hills facility is a referral centre for more than 11 facilities offering HIV treatment. More than 70 facilities offer Prevention of Mother-to-Child Transmission of HIV services. Ambassador McCarter toured the facility. “We will continue to explore more partnerships especially in healthcare, which is a critical need," he said. Under the Walter Reed Project-Kenya with Nandi, the US Department of Defence’s HIV program supports HIV research and vaccine development, research and HIV prevention and treatment. In Elgeyo Marakwet, McCarter visited the project on eradication of Mother–to-Child Transmission of HIV at the Iten County Referral hospital He said the US government would continue supporting the program and celebrated with children of mothers living with HIV. “I am proud of the mothers here, who despite being HIV positive, are still brave enough to come out and fight for their children to be free of the disease," McCarter said. He praised the county for encouraging mothers give birth in hospitals, calling it one way of reducing the spread of HIV from mother to child. Governor  Alex Tolgos thanked the US government its support. He said the county, through the Kenya Devolution Support Programme, has allocated Sh62 million to build a mother and baby unit at Iten. McCarter pledged support for similar activities in Baringo. (Edited by V. Graham)