Two sacked Kisumu City Board members have been temporarily reinstated pending the determination of their case. Justice Nduma Nderi of the Employment and Labour Court in Kisumu directed Sam Okello and Ken Akoko to immediately resume their duties until a case they filed in court is concluded. "The petitioners should not be replaced until their petition is heard and determined," Nderi ruled on Tuesday. Okello, a former Kisumu mayor, and Akoko were sacked by Governor Anyang' Nyong’o in August for lacking degree qualification — a requirement for board members. Through advocate Muga Apondi, the duo told the court they were unlawfully dismissed without any justifiable reason, despite being vetted and approved by the county assembly. Okello and Akoko have not been in office since their sacking. Lawyer Moses Omondi, representing the county government, requested for seven days to respond to the petition by the two. The petitioners sought to be allowed to attend board meetings and resume work. Also sought was an order barring the appointment of their replacements. Justice Nderi granted the petitioners prayers and ordered the county government to file a replying affidavit within seven days. The county is also required to file submissions within 14 days from the date of service. The case will be heard and determined on February 27 next year. Nyong’o, through Press Unit director Aloice Ager, said the Urban Areas and Cities Act recently underwent a review that must be complied with. "The review introduced new measures and requirements with regard to the composition of the membership," he said. Some of the new inclusions require that all members of the city boards and town committees must be holders of at least a bachelor's degree and must have practised for not less than seven years. The two were among the 11 members who took the oath of office in July last year and were to serve for five years from the date of their appointment. Other board members are Charles Ochome, Sheila Okal, Lawrence Gumbe, Rose Olende, Sagar Shah, Elijah Adul, Farida Salim, Peris Ochola and John Ombija. Shah represents the informal sector. Salim Farida Ahmed and Okal represented the private sector and neighbourhood respectively. Okello was representing urban associations of areas and cities and Peris Ochola represents professionals. Akoko was under the individual member categories alongside Gumbe, Ombija, Ochome, Adul, and Olende.