Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja has asked for the Senate to hold a special sitting to discuss the crisis at City Hall following the court's directive that Governor Mike Sonko stay away from office after being charged. Sakaja on Wednesday said the special sitting will allow the Senate to give direction, including resolving to take legal or legislative action in the interest of the people of Nairobi. Sakaja in a letter to Speaker Kenneth Lusaka said Sonko being barred from office prevents him from delivering his mandate. "Seeing that Nairobi does not have a Deputy Governor as is the case of Kiambu County where a similar direction has been given, serious concerns and questions have arisen as to how the county will be run in the interim period," Sakaja's letter read in part. Sakaja said Standing order 30(1) of the Senate provides that whenever during a Session the Senate stands adjourned, whether or not a day has been appointed for the next meeting, the Speaker may, on the request of the Senate Majority Leader or the Senate Minority Leader, and in each case with the support of at least 15 senators, appoint a day for a special sitting of the Senate. He said the Standing Orders of the Senate have no provision for a Special Sitting in between Sessions and as such the provisions of Standing Order 30 do not apply. "However, Standing Order No. 1 provides that “in all cases where matters are not expressly provided for by these Standing Orders or by other Orders of the Senate, any procedural question shall be decided by the Speaker," he said. Sakaja added, "The exceptional situation that has arisen affects Nairobi City County and indeed creates an unprecedented state of affairs that requires the urgent attention of the Senate during this period between two sessions". "This is to therefore request you, Mr. Speaker, to exercise your jurisdiction under Standing Order No. 1 and call for an urgent Special Sitting of the Senate in order for the Senate to discuss the exceptional situation prevailing in Nairobi City County with the aim of giving direction and/or resolving to take legal or legislative action in the interest of the people of Nairobi". Sonko was granted a Sh15 million cash bail or Sh30 million bond. Anti-Corruption Chief Magistrate Douglas Ogoti in his ruling on Wednesday also barred Sonko from accessing his office saying the county boss can be escorted to pick his belongings from City Hall. Ogoti said the pre-trial detention might be necessary for purposes of public order if demonstrated that accused is likely to cause unrest. In an attempt to rebut evidence, Sonko had produced a certificate of good conduct in court and awards of good deeds ambassadors. In his ruling, Ogoti prohibited the accused from commenting on the case on social media.