Five suspects charged with murder in 2016 have been set free by a Kisumu court due to lack of evidence. The five are George Ouma, Hesbon Otieno, Joseph Aguma, Julius Olang and Gideon Orimbo. The accused could not hide their feeling of joy when the judge read out the ruling acquitting them. They had been charged that on January 1, 2016 they killed Elias Omino at his home in Kanyamwega sub-location, Kisumu West subcounty. They were accused of stoning, whipping and burning the deceased in his house. They pleaded not guilty to the charge. A postmortem report showed the deceased had 70 per cent burns and multiple cut wounds on his head. A partly burnt stick, three stones, a burnt yellow jerry can and partly burnt clothes were retrieved from the scene. The accused had defended themselves, saying that the deceased had been attacked by mourners who dumped the body of his inherited wife at his door and accused him of killing her. One of the accused, Ouma, stated that the woman who had been killed was his wife and was waiting for her body to be brought for burial. The accused stated that boda boda riders had taken the body to Omino’s place and became rowdy. They stated that the crowd threw stones at anyone who tried to block their way but they managed to calm them down and the body was taken away as the angry crowd continued stoning Omino. Six witnesses were lined up by the prosecution to testify in the case. One of the witnesses, younger brother to the deceased Christopher Abong'o, told the court that he rushed to his brother's home around 4.30pm when he heard screams. He said the five accused carried a coffin and placed it at his brother’s door before breaking his door and window panes. He further told the court that the deceased had told him that the residents were accusing him of killing Mama Hellen and threatened to kill him, but he had already called police officers to come to his rescue. Three Administrative Polce officers who had gone to rescue the deceased were overpowered by the crowd and took off to save their lives. Omino’s wife and brothers also took off as they feared getting killed by the angry mourners and they only came to learn of his death when they returned at 11pm. However, Justice Thrispisa Cherere stated that there was not enough evidence that implicated the five in the death of the deceased.