Before meeting his demise on Monday morning,  Justice James Otieno Odek was not only a Judge of the Court of Appeal, a post he claimed in 2012. But he also held several other distinguished roles; RESEARCHER He was a researcher working with Kenya Institute of Public Policy Research and Analysis from 1998. He was a consultant and research person at African Centre for technology studies, Nairobi. LECTURER He was a senior lecturer, department of public law at the University of Nairobi. He started lecturing in July 1989 and taught Law Relating to banking, Transnational Business Problems, International Trade Law and Finance, Intellectual Property Law and  Law of Treaties. Other subjects he taught were Public International Law, Evidence, Legal Aspects of Genetic Engineering, Land Law, Conveyancing and Environmental Law and Policy, Law of the Sea and Law of Treaties). He was promoted to an associate professor of Public Law at the University of Nairobi in 2004. He also supervised the LL.B Undergraduate Dissertation and LL.M Postgraduate Master’s Thesis at the University of Nairobi. LEGAL CONSULTANT He was Chief legal consultant and practitioner Otieno-Odek & Co. Advocates, Nairobi before meeting his death. He has been a Legal consultant to Friedrich Ebert Stiftung – Nairobi on the European Union and the African Caribbean Pacific Countries Relationship Consultancy held intermittently as and when legal issues arise from 1997. POLICY TRAINER He was a Trainer in the WTO trade Policy Training Program – Nairobi and a consultant to the World Trade Organization (WTO) Trade Policy Training Program from 2002. After the late James Odek finished his highschool in 1982 he embarked on teaching high school students in Eldoret. The then 20-year-old young man taught Red Towers Secondary School for two months before transferring to Saniak Secondary school, Kapsabet as an acting headmaster. He was an acting headmaster for one year, in 1984, Odek joined the University of Nairobi to study Bachelor of Laws. The shrewd and passionate man completed his degree in 1987 attaining First Class Honours in Law. One year after his degree completion he joined Kenyan school of law and attained a diploma in Law. He also worked as an advocate in the firm of R.A. Kassam and company advocates for four years. INDUSTRIALIST From December 2004 he has been working for Kenya Industrial Property Institute. Before passing on he was the managing director of the institute. He was also the registrar of patents and trademarks, industrial designs, utility models and technovations. From September 2005 to presents he was the chairman of Madrid union of the world intellectual property organization. He was a chairman to Berne executive council of the world intellectual property organization. From December 2005 he became the Vice-chairman WIPO member of the administrative and governing council. AUTHOR His forthcoming publications were titled: 1.“Re-appraising the Framework for Regional Economic Integration in Africa” article to be published in the revived East African Law Journal 2004. 2.“Conflict prevention, Mid Term Reviews and the Role of Non-State Actors in the Cotonou Process” paper to be published in the SaferWorld and the Africa Peace Forum publication series 2004 EDUCATION Odek joined St. Mathews Nursery School, Eldoret, Kenya in 1968. From 1969 to 1971 he attended Kapsoya Primary School, Eldoret, Kenya. From 1971 to 1975 he attended Race Course Primary School, Eldoret, Kenya where he sat for his Certificate of Primary Education. From 1976 to 1979 he attended St. Mary’s High School where he sat for KSJE, 1977 and attained Kenya Junior Secondary Examination Certificate. In 1980 he attended Sisibo Secondary School, Eldoret Kenya and attained Kenya Certificate of Education, (Ordinary Level). From 1981 to 1982 he attended Uasin Gishu High School, Eldoret, Kenya and attained Kenya Advanced Certificate of Education (Advanced Level – 3 Principles and 1 Subsidiary). Between 1984 and 1987 he attended University Of Nairobi Kenya and attained Bachelor of Laws, First Class Honours (LLB, 1st Class in 1987 he joined Kenyan School Of Law, Nairobi, Kenya and attained Diploma in Law in 1988. In 1989 he joined Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut, U.S.A. and in 1989 he attained Master of Laws Degree (LLM). In 1991 he joined University Of Toronto, Canada and in January 1995 he attained Doctor of Juridical Science (JSD) Degree. President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga have mourned the passing on of Odek. The two leaders said the untimely death of Justice James Odek has robbed the Judiciary of a critical member at a very critical time for the country and its justice system. Odek was found dead in his house on Monday morning in Kisumu county. The cause of his death has not yet been established. The President said the death of Justice Odek is not only a big blow to his close family and the judiciary but also to the whole country which he served with commitment and dedication in the dispensation of justice without fear or favour.