A murdered wines and spirits proprietor and her daughter were laid to rest at night to the shock of villagers in Embu. Ann Ndegi Gatiti, 60, and her 35-year-old daughter Purity Wanjiru Nyaga were buried on Wednesday. They were shot dead on the night of October 27 at the gate of their Katani home in Machakos allegedly by two motorbike-riding gangsters. The funeral took place at Rianguu village of Gacuriri sublocation in Mbeere South subcounty. The ceremony ended at 9pm against the Embu community practices and the licensed time of 6pm. The graves had been dug early but mourners had to wait until night for the burial of bodies. The bodies of the deceased were brought in at around 7.30pm to the shock of mourners and the presiding priest. The priest feared breaking the law by conducting the burial past 6pm and sought the permission of local administrators, prompting the burial to delay further. Members of the church based in Nairobi where the two women worshipped conducted unfamiliar rituals rites in silence. They carried the bodies into the house and opened the coffins and smeared the faces of the deceased who were dressed in white nets with unknown substances.The ritual took around 30 minutes. A brother to Ndegi, Dominic Njeru, said they had planned to reach Embu and complete the burial activities early but the church rituals in Nairobi took long. He said the church footed all the bills including Sh1.4 million mortuary fees, purchase of coffins and transport. “We have never seen such a thing before but we are very thankful for the way the church stood  with us since my sister and her daughter were shot dead almost two months ago. It has been very hard for us as a family,” said Njeru Their burial was hit by controversy over properties the mother and daughter owned. General Service Unit constable Anthony Kilonzo was arrested in connection with the murder and remanded after he failed to take a plea. During his first appearance at a Nairobi court on October 31,Kilonzo attempted to confess but was stopped halfway by the magistrate and asked whether he understood the implications of the confession.