In my teens, my mother often said: “birds of a feather flock together.” Back then, I didn’t grasp the depth of her words, but now, I get it. Growing up, my mother emphasized the importance of keeping the right company. The meaning of her words became clearer the older I got. It sounds cliché, but the truth is that: association does matter. It shapes your experiences in life. The voices in your life influence you and these voices are a major factor in your life’s journey. On this note, a few questions come to mind: who makes up your inner circle? What voices are you listening to? How do you qualify who enters your space? Everyone has a presence. There are people in whose presence your dreams, ideas, and person would flourish. Also, there are people in whose presence your dreams, ideas, and person would wither and die. Presence causes an increase or decrease, profit or loss. Your foolishness or wisdom is empowered by the presence of those with whom you associate. Their presence in your life has an undeniable effect. If I’m asked by anyone to state the number one key to success or failure in life, without thinking, I would say: association. I’ve lived long enough to understand that good or bad comes into your life through people. Often, we take this fact for granted and wonder why certain experiences reoccur. The presence of certain people sustains specific outcomes in our lives. So, it is no surprise that most of your friends are smokers and now you smoke. This is the power of association – it can predict outcomes. And here’s why? Every person is a system and every system produces specific results. Therefore, your association with a person will produce specific results because of who they are. The systematic nature of people means that each person comes with their thoughts, network, energy, perspective, lifestyle, etc. – and the combination of these elements form an organism with well-defined characteristics and very specific outcomes. There is more to a person; they come with an aura that affects the energy of an environment. When a person comes into your space, they bring all of who they are – the good, the bad and the crazy. The effect of association is powerful, but the degree to which it affects you depends on you. Association is regulated by your choice. You choose who you allow in your space. Your decisions trigger your experiences with people. Ultimately, you hold the key. Email: smpamugo@gmail.com