 Deputy President William Ruto On Sunday cautioned government officials and politicians against engaging in war of words over the Building Bridges Initiative report. Ruto said those campaigning for the BBI report should not cause hatred among Kenyans. He said speeches made by leaders can cause separation, division and hatred among their supporters. "We do not need a situation where leaders are rising against each other. We need a country where we can all be accommodated," Ruto said. "Those who are saying this and that about BBI should tell us if we were looking for posts or peace and bringing our people together." The DP said all politicians should come together and speak in one voice. "Kenyans are now cleaver. Whatever you tell people, they will know if you have lied or not," Ruto said. He spoke at Kimende Secondary School on Sunday when he attended a graduation for students who have passed artisan courses. The programmes were funded by Lari NG-CDF under the patronage of MP Jonah Mburu. The DP also attended AIC church Gituamba church in Magina location in the same area. The youths graduated after completing courses such as plumbing, catering and hospitality, electrical and hairdressing and beauty. Mburu said the courses were offered free of charge to the 500 graduands. Ruto's sentiments followed Mt Kenya MPs reactions to Interior CS Fred Matiang'i who they accused of campaigning for the BBI. The MPs present included Kimani Ichung'wa (Kikuyu), Rigathi Gachagua (Mathira), Jane Kihara (Naivasha), Gabriel Kago (Githunguri), Kwenya Thuku (Kinangop) and Kijabe MCA Nyutu Wamwere. Ichung'wa accused Matiang'i for starting inciteful campaigns for the Building Bridges Initiative on Saturday. The Kikuyu legislator urged Matiang'i to respect Ruto just like his he does to President Uhuru Kenyatta. "Ruto was elected the same day with the President, as the second in command and he should be respected. All other elected leaders need respect since they represent people of Kenya from the grassroots," Ichung'wa said. Gachagua said the CS's should concentrate on the work he was given by the President. The MPs said the BBI report should be implemented through Parliament and not a referendum. Mburu said holding a referendum is costly. "Referendum is very expensive. We need to save money for completing ongoing projects including road construction, schools and hospitals," Mburu said.  edited by p. obuya