For the better part of this year, the Jubilee Party has experienced turbulent times as rival camps clashed on various platforms over diverse national issues. Persistent calls by party leader President Uhuru Kenyatta to members to put aside 2022 politics have been landing on deaf ears. Matters hit the roof in January when party vice chairman David Murathe resigned after making a series of allegations against Deputy President William Ruto, who doubles as the deputy party leader. Besides accusing Ruto of interfering with party nominations and being corrupt, Murathe claimed that the Deputy President was unfit to succeed Uhuru. It then became clear that the party was split into two —Team Tangatanga and Team Kieleweke. Political analyst Herman Manyora said the rivalry between the two factions could intensify in the New Year as the constitution amendment debate intensifies. "There will be heightened political activities brought about by the Building Bridges Initiative report and this might push apart the two groups," he said. Team Tangatanga is composed of legislators allied to Ruto, who insist he should succeed Uhuru in 2022. Team Kieleweke consists of legislators mainly from the Central region who say Mt Kenya does not owe Ruto a favour or debt. And as if the formations were not enough, women members of the Jubilee Party allied to the Deputy President came up with a women league to counter the pro-handshake's Embrace Team. Embrace is considered an extension of the Kieleweke faction. The Embrace team is led by former Nairobi Woman Representative Rachael Shebesh and Homa Bay MP Gladys Wanga . The rival women group dubbed Inua Mama came to light after President Uhuru Kenyatta lashed out at the Tangatanga leaders for disrespecting him. The chief organiser is Kandara MP Alice Wahome and other key members are Nakuru Senator Susan Kihika and Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa. The Tangatanga group is affiliated with MPs Kimani Ichung'wa, Kimani Ngunjiri, Ndindi Nyoro, Benjamin Washiali, Didmus Barasa, Oscar Sudi and Caleb Kositany, among others. Team Kieleweke on the other side consists of MPs Ngunjiri Wambugu, Maina Kamanda, Joshua Kutuny, William Kamket and Gathoni Wamuchomba. Throughout the year, the rival groups have been attacking each other and their respective supporters are now getting involved. The latest incident was on December 8 when violence erupted at Giakanja High School in Nyeri County when two rival youth groups clashed ahead of Ruto's arrival for a church event. Trouble started after a group of youths believed to be supporters of Tangatanga grabbed T-shirts from those believed to be from the Kieleweke faction. Several youths were arrested in connection with the fracas which left a number of people injured. And when the DP arrived aboard his chopper, the Nyeri town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu was left seated on his chair as other elected leaders went to receive Ruto. As the function progressed, Nyeri women representative Rahab Mukami again invited Wambugu after all other visiting MPs had spoken but, again, the Nyeri Town MP declined to speak and didn’t leave his seat. Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria said Kieleweke legislators are keen on disrupting the Deputy President's functions in Central to portray him as unpopular. "Some leaders from Central Kenya will do anything just to disrupt Ruto's events but their missions have never been successful," he said. But Wambugu, on the other hand, said Ruto's allies are keen on causing problems where they do not enjoy support. "We will not be intimidated by anyone who wants to show as if the President's support in Central is fading," he said. Before the report of the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) was made public on November 27, the two sides had taken different stands with the Tangatanga group vowing to reject constitutional amendments. However, the Tangatanga group now appears more behind the proposed amendments than even allies of Uhuru and Raila, who have always been for the changes. Questions abound on what informed the sudden turn of events more so because the Tanga Tanga have even taken on their own party leader head-on for leading the push for changes. There have been arguments that the change of heart was because the BBI made unexpected proposals, including no expansion of the executive. The Deputy President had maintained that he would oppose the BBI should it propose an expanded executive. His argument was that Kenyans should not go to a referendum to create positions for certain people. Those who called for the creation of more positions at the top argued it was the way out of violence which is experienced every election cycle. National Assembly Minority leader John Mbadi has expressed concerns that Parliament may be too divided to undertake constitutional amendments proposed in the BBI report. Mbadi averred that the existence of Tangatanga and Kieleweke factions in Parliament would jeopardise MPs’ ability to implement the BBI recommendations in the interest of Kenyans. “Tangatanga and Kieleweke politics should not be given any chance to scuttle constitutional reforms,” he advised. Raila wants the report subjected to a referendum but Ruto said some constitutional amendments can be done by Parliament. Ngunjiri said as MPs they will do everything possible to ensure BBI is accepted by Kenyans. “The BBI team consulted many Kenyans and because of this, the report will not suffer the same fate as Punguza Mizigo initiative which was thrown out by a majority of county assemblies,” he explained. Surprisingly, Kimilili MP Didmus Barasa has declared his support for the BBI report. Barasa said he threw his weight behind the report because its proposals can be implemented through constitutional amendments by way of the parliamentary initiative. "I support the document since the team did not say we must have a referendum. The issues raised can be prosecuted through the parliamentary process," he said.