Known for grand entrances, Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko never shies off from garish dressing exposing his love for bling. His latest style has been decking in a pair of gold Versace loafers, long-sleeved t-shirts, a pair of jeans and a cowboy hat. The signature Medusa car shoes by Italian designer Donatella Versace would obliterate a whooping Sh200,000  from your bank account. Sonko's iced-out Medusa head gold chain could cost Sh300,000 from online clothing outlets. Throw in a couple of gold rings that he wears generously on his two hands and the price of bling engraved his name 'Sonko' that would cost Sh5 million or more. His latest Yellow Gold Rolex Day-Date 11 watch has hit headlines of late with an estimated cost of Sh3 million. Sonko in 2011 dared to enter parliament chambers wearing ear studs and sunglasses. "I represent the youths who elected me to parliament," he said. The bold Sonko on Monday, however, appeared to have eaten a humble pie during his arraignment at Milimani courts over graft charges at City Hall. He looked sober and polished, in a simple casual look and a mild demeanor. Dressed in a clingy black t-shirt, combat jacket and zero jewelry, Sonko sat quietly listening to the court proceedings. DPP Noordin Haji had ordered that Sonko be charged with Sh357m fraud alongside several other City Hall officials. Sonko spent the weekend at EACC cells awaiting his arraignment on Monday at the Milimani Law courts. Sonko who is known for his unconventional leadership style on Monday lined up a high profile team of 12 legal advisors lined up for his defense in court. The governor's legal counsel include; Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Junior, Senator Kipchumba Murkomen of Elgeyo Marakwet, Dan Maanzo-MP Makueni and lawyer Nelson Havi. Other lawyers are; Cecil Miller, George Kithi, Alphonse Mutinda, Osundwa Michael, Harrison Kinyanjui and three others. Also spotted in court was Embakasi East MP Babu Owino and Kericho Senator Aaron Cheruiyot. Sonko was transferred from the EACC headquarters under tight police security and arrived at the Milimani Law Court at exactly 7.55 am. A contingent of heavily armed security personnel has been deployed around the court with the roads leading to the area sealed off and traffic re-directed to other adjacent roads. Police have warned his supporters planning to demonstrate that they will be dealt with accordingly.