The Nova Pioneer Schools has set up an ultra-modern complex in Eldoret, joining a list investors who have injected about Sh10 billion in the town. Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago said the development of the school was an indication of the level of confidence investors have in the county. “Toyota Kenya has set up a Sh400 million multi-brand facility to be opened in January, Safaricom also set up its first call centre outside Nairobi in Eldoret,” he said. The multibillion educational complex is a partnership between the Nova Pioneer Schools and the Local Authorities Pension Trust Fund. Construction works began in August 2019 and within five months, the project has officially been handed over to the schools' management. The complex sits on a 20 acres piece of land located near Annex. It will have a boys' secondary school wing and separate from the girls' secondary school in the same compound. Each will be semi-autonomous with separate classrooms and administration blocks. Co-founder and director at Nova Pioneer Schools in Africa  Christopher Khaemba said the schools will admit their first students next month. The Nova complex has an all-weather track for sporting activities and grounds for club activities. The school boasts modern classrooms set up with technology to enhance learning and modern boarding facilities. Khaemba said they will offer the Kenyan curriculum delivered with world-class teaching methods aimed at developing the character and capabilities of its students. “Expanding into other parts of the country allows more families to access the local curriculum delivered to students with the future in mind and preparing them to be competitive globally,” Khaemba said on Monday. Basic Education PS Belio Kipsang said the Nova schools was re-orientating the national curriculum through innovation, technology and entrepreneurship. “Critical thinking is what we are focusing on in the 21st century, it forms the foundation of the CBC which focuses on skills and competencies,” the PS said. Mandago said the Nova Pioneer schools, will prepare students for the global stage. “Most of those engaged in world agencies are largely from West and South Africa because the kind of education we currently offer our children is not giving them the global international thinking,” the governor said.