Residents of Joska in Mavoko, Machakos county, have accused police of failing to protect them from people they said attack and destroy their property. The Waswa Development Society members said they were tired of making reports at Joska police post and KBC police station in Athi River and Matungulu, saying police officers do not take action. This, they claimed, had resulted in persistent land disputes, especially on parcels owned by more than 3,000 former Nairobi City Council employees– some still working. They addressed the press in Joska on Sunday. Water and Sewerage Welfare Association’s official James Nyakoe said security agencies should protect their members to enable them to develop their properties. “We can no longer continue this way 27 years after Waswa members legitimately acquired the parcels. All the members have either legitimate title deeds or allotment letters for the ownership,” Nyakoe said. They claim police have failed to arraign two people suspected of attacking, injuring and destroying a member's property on November 30. The suspects were arrested and released from custody under unclear circumstances, the members said. The two allegedly attacked Peter Njuguna, 27, while he was erecting a perimeter fence in Brigan, Joska. Njuguna sustained injuries to the head, leg and back after he was hit with crude weapons. Matungulu police boss Joel Kirui on December 1, confirmed the arrests, saying they would be arraigned on December 3. Njuguna claimed he went to court on December 3, only to realise that the two were not in court. Kirui told the Star that one of the suspects was a KCSE examiner and that was the reason they had not been arraigned. He said both the suspects were released on bail. Independent investigations by the Star, however, revealed that the suspect was not a teacher, nor was he an examiner as claimed. Mary Muriuki, 61, a City Hall retiree, said her house, which is under construction, has been demolished three times. Muriuki said she no longer report cases at Joska police post and KBC police station. “I have made several reports complaining of the destruction of property and assault but no action has been taken,” Muriuki said. They made the remarks a day after Muriuki’s house was pulled down by thugs for the third time. The first two incidences were reported to Joska police post on OB numbers 10/29/11/2019 and 07/11/2/2019. Muriuki said she had lost over Sh700,000 on materials and labour while reconstructing the demolished house. “I'm psychologically and financially affected. I'm traumatised,” she added. Isabella Otieno said her building materials were stolen from her plot after the goons attacked her workers. Construction has stopped. “I reported the matter to Joska police post on OB 12/14/11/2019 and 22/29/11/2019 but no action has been taken,” she said. Athi River subcounty police boss Catherine Ringera promised to follow up on the cases. Ringera who took over the station two weeks ago visited the complainants in Joska and assured them of justice. She said the two suspects, earlier arrested for assault and destruction of property, would be arraigned soon.