Eighteen elected leaders from Tana River, Isiolo and Marsabit have united to negotiate political power ahead of the 2022 polls. The union named TIM (Tana River, Isiolo and Marsabit) comprises MPs, senators and Woman Representatives. Marsabit Governor Mohamud Ali is the patron and Saku MP Dado Raso the chairperson. The leaders said their aim is to put all their votes in one basket and use their unity as a bargaining chip for top jobs in government, more resources, financial allocation and development for their regions — just as Garissa, Mandera and Wajir counties are doing. The TIM leaders say they have been short-changed by the Jubilee administration, saying they got only two senior positions in the government – Labour CS Ukur Yatani and Devolution CAS Hussein Dado  — while their counterparts in Northeastern got many positions because of their unity. The leaders made the unity-is-power declaration on Sunday when they met in Oda, Garsen constituency in Tana River county, during a fundraiser for women's groups. Present were Marsabit Senator Hargura Godana, Marsabit Woman Representative Sofia Sheikh Adan, her Isiolo counterpart Rehema Jaldesa and Isiolo North MP Hassan Hulufo Odha. Others were Bura MP Ali Wario, Tana River Senator Juma Wario, Garsen MP Ali Wario, former Garsen MP Moku Shambaro, among others. Marsabit Governor Ali said they aim to address problems facing counties in drought-prone areas. "Previously we used to get positions such as PSs and ambassadors but now we have been bypassed," the county chief said. "But now we have not been given such positions and that's why we have come together so that in 2022, we shall be in the next government," he said. MP Raso said they will also push for the development of youth and women. "If you invest in youth, all communities will prosper. We travelled more than 1,300km to Tana River because of the unity drive," he said. The Bura MP said their unity was similar to that of larger unions, such as the EU, the African Union and Caribbean Union — to push for development. The TIM legislators come from the Borana, Orma, Rendile, Wardei, Watta communities. They speak a common language. Marsabit Senator Godana said they will also ensure the communities agree on candidates for election, including president, and vote as a bloc. He said that previously they fielded too many candidates for one position and lost benefits. (Edited by V. Graham) 