John Nyongesa, 17, had gone to visit a friend in the neighbourhood when he heard that the building he called home in Tassia, Embakasi had collapsed. Nyongesa's mother and his 13-year-old sister were among those who perished in the Friday morning disaster. The Form 4 student at Utumishi Academy said his mother Christine Wanjala,  32, was in their house together with his two siblings Sheilla Wanjala, 13, and Joel Wanjala. 8. Joel escaped with minor injuries after the rubble fell on them. They had lived in the building whose single rooms were rented at Sh3,000 monthly for only two months. Edwin Makhoha, one of Wanjala’s best friends said he had taken in the two boys who survived. “We have positively identified both the bodies at the City mortuary. I am now living with the two children John and Joel,” Makhoha told the Star at the scene where rescue mission was ongoing on Sunday. Embakasi assistant county commissioner James Wanyoike told the press that the number of casualties had risen to seven. “Five bodies were retrieved from the scene while two victims died in the hospital, making the number of those who have died to seven,” Wanyoike said. Wanyoike said that 35 people had been rescued and were undergoing treatment at both Mama Lucy and Kenyatta National Hospitals. The Star established that some victims were in shops, a salon, a cyber café while the rest were inside their houses in the six-storey building. There were also claims that some children may have died at a baby daycare in one of the houses when the building crumbled. “Three of my relatives are missing since the tragedy, all children. Three children, two of my sister’s and another one of my sister in law,” Diana Bosibori said. Bosibori told the press that though she did not live in the building that collapsed, the three children she lives with liked playing there. She said that the trio was among the children who were playing at a cyber café within the building when the accident occurred. Bosibori said they had searched for the three children everywhere within the estate to no avail. “Some of the children who were in the same cyber were rescued at around 11am, they confirmed that the three were trapped inside,” she added. The building collapsed at around 9.30am on Friday. Another woman who said her two children were missing since the tragedy said she wished they came out from the rubble alive. “I have two children missing, I have seen neither their bodies nor themselves,” she said. She said the children were among those who were in the cyber café during the incident. Marry Dinnah's sister Mary Atemo, 39, together with her two children are also missing. Dinnah said that she last saw the single mother on Tuesday evening. “My sister is the one who brought me to Nairobi, she did menial jobs like washing clothes to earn a living,” she told the Star. Wanyoike said that though they were not aware of the number of victims trapped in the building, they were determined to ensuring that they conduct a search in all the floors. He said they were focused on finalising the rescue mission by Monday if rains do not interfere with the operations.