In a bid to redeem the Kenyan football from immediate collapse, former AFC Leopards chairman Dan Mule has appealed to Parliament to draft laws which will compel corporate companies to support football as part of their Corporate Social Responsibilities (CSR). Since the introduction of the punitive tax laws in January last year, clubs and the national football teams have had to roll on tight budgets and often rely on fundraisers and government support. With the football leagues facing uncertainty following the withdrawal of title sponsors, Mule has reached out to the lawmakers to aid in mitigation. The Kenyan Premier League is currently without a title sponsor after SportPesa left while Bamba Sport closed their financial taps to the National Super League. The Women’s League is bankrolled by the Fifa grants, which are marred by delays. SportPesa were also the title sponsors for the Shield Cup. “Parliament should come up with laws which require the corporates to pump money to football as part of their CSR. If we can have more than 10 corporates which make a turnover of more than a billion give as little as Sh10 million per year, we will not have financial problems," said Mule. "I have seen that policy work in several countries and we can emulate it. However, the policy should be business-friendly.” Mule, who did not defend his seat during the polls conducted in June, has in the meantime backed the incumbent Football Kenya Federation President Nick Mwendwa to retain his seat. Mwendwa who has been at the helm since February 2016 is set to face stiff competition from a growing list of candidates who are seeking to oust him during the December 7 elections. The businessman argues that four years were not enough for the Kariobangi Sharks' chairman to fully transform the Kenyan football hence the need to re-elect him. “I think Nick has helped resuscitate the state of the Kenyan football in his first term. We all know the harm the previous regime had subjected football to and in four years we have seen change. Under his watch, we have seen the rise of the national U-13, 15, 20 and 23 teams as well as Harambee Starlets,” observed Mule.