An independent agency could soon be formed to tackle the Nairobi garbage problem if a motion passed by the county assembly is implemented by the county government. The motion proposes the establishment of the Nairobi City County Waste Management Authority to manage solid waste, which has been a health risk. About 2,000 tonnes of waste is generated daily in Nairobi, but poor access roads to the official dumpsite in Dandora has hampered disposal. Collection trucks easily break down. The dumpsite has more than 1.8 million tonnes of solid waste against 500,000-tonne capacity. More than 2,500 tonnes are deposited daily. The dumpsite was declared full in 2000 but the county continues to use it. Currently, the Environment department is in charge and spends a lot of funds in attempts to make the capital city clean. But MCAs cite delayed payments and illegal dumping as some of the reasons necessitating a change. Dandora II MCA Silas Matara, who moved the motion, said waste management is also hurt by corruption within and beyond the county government, laziness among county staff and apathy among residents. “Solid waste is an emerging health threat to both levels of government and underscoring its effect on the lives of the people living in Nairobi, the environment and well-being of the city," the motion read. "This assembly urges the county government to establish a county entity to be known as Nairobi City County Waste Management Authority, with a view of providing leadership and regulating the sector." Matara argued that through the Nairobi City County Waste Management Authority, the youth will have an opportunity to earn a living by getting employed. He said that not only will there be jobs, the management will also attract donor funding, which will be helpful in addressing the garbage issue. "City residents are choking with waste all over. We know the county is trying as much as possible, but still, we cannot handle the 2,500 tonnes of waste that is produced in Nairobi daily." On August 6 2019, it was revealed that the county owes Sh927 million contractors for work done in 2018-19. In an attempt to restore Nairobi back to its lost glory, Governor Mike Sonko in April 2018 launched a monthly clean-up, which has been taking place across all the 85 wards every first Saturday of the month. The exercise is meant to create responsible citizenry so residents can appreciate the need to dispose of waste properly. In July 2018, Governor Sonko said an energy recycling plant would cost the county Sh28 billion. He said the county was in the final stages of awarding a contract for the construction of the plant. Since then, no contract has been awarded. The plant was to convert the waste into 160MW clean and renewable energy per day. In August last year, there were reports that the waste-to-energy recycling plant could take longer to be set up. In October 2019, City Hall said it intended to convert the Dandora dumpsite into a recreational park after it is decommissioned. This is one of the highlights of the County Annual Development Plan 2020-21. Previously, the authorities intended to relocate the dumpsite. The CADP says methane will be generated from the residual waste at the dumpsite for power generation. Environment executive Vesca Kangogo said, “The Dandora dumpsite will still be operational but the dumpsite will be eventually decommissioned in an environmentally sound manner and eventually turned into a park.”