As most Kenyans across the country celebrate festive season, inmates at Waita GK Prison were treated to a rare meal by local philanthropists. Through Braia Foundation for people living with disabilities, the 260 (240 men and 20 women) prisoners got a chance to celebrate the festive season. According to the Foundation founder, Brian Musyoka, his foundation aims at remembering the sidelined and looked down upon persons by most members of the community. "My foundation which has no donors aims at giving hope to those vulnerable and almost forgotten individuals in the community ranging from the disabled, the elderly, prisoners, street children, orphans among other needy persons" Musyoka said. Brian pleaded with them to always forgive one another, accept their fate, not to be vengeful, that way they have a peaceful life. "Some of you might be here following minor errors or being found in a controversial position and failing to mitigate properly in the court but do not loose hope and also forgive those rejoicing at your current situation,” Musyoka said. According to him, the inmates are part of the society only that they are facing a disciplinary process and the community should accept them back once released. "Life is full of surprises and uncertainties, I urge the community out there to embrace our brothers and sisters once released from the prison," he said. Responding to why he chose to celebrate his festive season with the prisoners, he stated that they are mostly forgotten and are humans just like any other. "I have been in several other prisons like Shimo la tewa, Manyani among others, my major aim being to offer words of encouragement to our brothers and sisters most importantly telling them that we love them,” said Brian. Musyoka Ngitu, a member of the foundation encouraging the inmates told them to go utilize the skills attained in prison once released in a bid to better their lives . "Being here will help you correct your mistakes and attain skills you never had and it is important if you utilized them out there once released," Ngitu said. Benjamin Limasia, Officer in charge, Waita GK prison lauded the exercise, stating it is a show of concern remembering those in custody giving them hope, encouraging them and celebrating together . “They need to be encouraged because they are part of us,” said Limasia Benjamin thanking the good Samaritans for their charitable act who had bought bread, soda and milk for the inmates also stated that wheat is one of the best meals in an inside world. Moving vote of thanks, Madaraka Mwendwa who has been in prison for 9 nine years lauded the visitors for going to cry with them . "Sometimes we face challenges and get heartbroken but when u visit us, we feel encouraged and know we are loved," said Mwendwa.