President Uhuru Kenyatta's surprising camaraderie with key opposition chiefs appears part of a confounding 2022 game plan that has sent jitters through Deputy President William Ruto's camp. The DP’s brigade has come out guns blazing claiming that the president could be hatching a secret a plot to abandon Ruto’s dream to succeed him in 2022 when he retires. Uhuru, who long ago had promised to pass the baton to Ruto in 2022, is no longer explicit on his power handover pledge, playing his cards close to his chest. Despite protests from Ruto's brigade, the President is increasingly cosy with ex-Prime Minister and ODM boss Raila Odinga. He also appears to be courting ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and Wiper party boss Kalonzo Musyoka. There are indications that both Uhuru and Raila could be working on an elaborate plan to prop up powerful Interior CS Fred Matiang’i as a compromise presidential candidate for 2022. Talk of a compromise candidate, Raila’s imposing presence near Uhuru and the President's closeness with opposition leaders — plus Ruto's isolation — has baffled many Kenyans. Though he holds no official position, Raila has been attending state functions even at State House, as well as meeting key political leaders from Uhuru’s Central Kenya backyard. The Opposition chief has also been meeting senior government officials, including Cabinet Secretaries, as he inspects development projects across the country, gving rise to ore speculation. While initially it seemed that the President was working on a hidden game plan with Raila, his decision to bring Kalonzo onboard had His dec Uhuru’s decision to bring Kalonzo onboard has made his mission seem far more complicated and mysterious. Politicians and analysts say the President has thrown the 2022 presidential race wide open by remaining tight-lipped about his possible successor, even as the succession battle takes shape. “The President is playing his cards close to his chest. Nobody seems to understand his plan for 2022,” university professor Macharia Munene said. The United States International University don said the President could have made a deliberate decision to shun succession politics, possibly aiming to create an enabling environment to seal his legacy. “When he brought Raila onboard the country enjoyed relative calm. He then went for Kalonzo and he has been wooing Mudavadi who appears to be less critical of the President's programmes,” he said. Uhuru's cordial working relationship with the other key opposition leaders, all of whom have their eyes trained on 2022, has left many guessing about his ultimate goals. Last weekend, the President, accompanied by Mudavadi, went to Garissa county for the opening of the Modika barracks. While the ANC leader did not speak during the military event, his presence spoke volumes about the President’s strategy in working with virtually all opposition leaders, despite his deputy’s plan to succeed him. “The President continues to send mixed signals about his 2022 political plans. On one hand, we are seeing him working with Raila and Kalonzo, while on the other hand, he is cosy with Mudavadi. Uhuru is becoming increasingly difficult to understand,” former South Mugirango MP Manson Nyamweya said. The politician pointed out, however, that it is important for the President to work closely with his previous competitors when it comes to development, not necessarily politics. “Let us not attach politics to everything the President does. To successfully lead a country like Kenya, which is plagued by ethnic tensions, you need to work with leaders from across the political divide,” Nyamweya said. But Kandara MP Alice Wahome said some selfish politicians are taking advantage of the President’s goodwill gesture to work out their own political plans. “It is important that the President unifies the country by bringing on board various political grouping to deliver on the Big Four. However, some well-known political detractors are up to no good,” the fiery Ruto ally said. The Jubilee politician cautioned Jubilee opponents against attempting to spoil the orderly Jubilee transition plan in which Ruto will enter State House. “Let them not be cheated that they are going to disrupt the plan we started in 2013,” she said. Former Dagoretti South MP Denis Waweru said the President is focussed on what he means for the country and faulted the politicians opposed to Uhuru’s working arrangement with other opposition leaders. “Kenya is one and is being led by one president. It is he who deemed it fit to work with his former competitors for the mutual benefit of this country. We support such a gesture as leader,” the ex-MP said. The President had earlier prophesied that the Jubilee party would rule for half a decade but with the storms roiling the ruling party, Uhuru appears no longer interested in the affairs of his own outfit. His Central Kenya backyard is already being torn apart as succession politics unsettle the region that analysts say lacks clear political leadership from the President. “The President appears not to be in charge of the Mt Kenya politics. His deputy William Ruto has made inroads and developed his own loyal supporters who are rivalling Uhuru’s,” university lecturer Munene said. Political analyst Felix Odhiambo says the DP’s plan to scout for his own genuine supporters across Mt Kenya could have complicated the President’s game plans. “It is obvious that Ruto is out there daily campaigning in Uhuru’s own backyard and daily he appears to be winning over followers. That puts the President in a tight corner and he must play it safe,” he said. Some argue that Uhuru’s moves and unclear motives have sown doubts about Jubilee's ability to withstand internal storms and survive the 2022 guillotine even as his deputy remains outwardly buoyant. Ruto has clearly stated his ambitions to succeed the President and has been traversing the country to firm up his support. The next phase of the Building Bridges Initiative report promises to be the straw that could break the camel’s back after the push for a powerful prime minister widened the political divides. Raila’s party has demanded a powerful PM with two deputies under a parliamentary system while Ruto’s camp insists that the current report with a weak PM and strong execitove president should be adopted. “The real test is the next phase of the BBI. How will the President react to Raila’s demand for a powerful PM? Will he publicly root for a  powerful PM when his [Central region] people are opposed to that?" asked former assistant minister Omingo Magara. The ex-MP said consensus around the BBI proposals would be the best approach to lower political temperatures and give room for the President to implement the Big Four. “Democracy and constitutionalism are about give and take. Let us meet in the middle and strike a better deal for what is good for the country,” he said. Already a section of former MPs from Central Kenya say they want a powerful PM, raising questions that the President could be fronting the idea through proxies after last month he said, “I won’t mind being prime minister in 2022.” 