A tug of war could be brewing between the imaginary two centres of power after the attempts by a certain political figure to summon Cabinet secretaries to his office for briefings were contentiously rebuffed. The prominent politician now enjoying trappings of power and trinkets appears to have pushed his luck too far by calling the CSs to give a brief on the status of various projects and programs under their dockets. The main man who is the appointing authority scoffed and rubbished the moves on no uncertain terms threatening the CSs with a sack should they ambulate to the said office and volunteer information. Is President Uhuru Kenyatta aware of the doings of this man? **** A state official who splurged a fortune to stage a drama implicating a top politician is upset that a county chief did a horrible job resulting in jeers and ridicule. The official is said to be miffed at how the governor executed the whole melee that boomeranged badly in him. The county chief known for his unending sequel of drama and an insatiable appetite for feel-good PR was accused of overdramatising the issue which then defeated the plot to taint the prominent politician as short-fused and instead turned himself into a butt of jokes. Handlers of the county boss now say he is afraid of losing the much haggled for endorsement and protection. **** A top government official in an ongoing investigation is in trouble. Corridors has been told of a well-hatched plan by detectives to approach some witnesses to skew a probe against a Cabinet Secretary. Corridors understands that the sleuths appear to cajole, coerce and wheedle the witnesses ostensibly to nab the state official over graft claims. The ex-directors of the board under probe developed cold feet upon being promised protection to fix the top government official. This comes weeks after some detectives assigned the responsibility of grilling them were hastily and summarily transferred for failing to hold down the CS according to the script.