Strathmore Leos concluded their 2019 Kenya Rugby Union Championship season unbeaten as they seek to return to Kenya Cup next season. Leos concluded the year with a 52-13 win over hosts University of Eldoret’s Trojans to maintain their lead at top of the log. Following the emphatic win, Leos lead the log with 43 points—eight ahead of second-placed Masinde Murilo University of Science and Technology . MMUST, coached by veteran Ochieng Ahaya, closed the year with a 51-9 drubbing of South Coast Pirates in Kakamega. Both Leos and MMUST are on course for a home semi-final qualification which will enhance their chances of advancing to the top tier league. Debutants Eldoret RFC upset former Kenya Cup side Catholic Monks 39-21 while Kisii RFC recorded a rare win, beating Northern Suburbs 11-10 in a closely contested match at Cardinal Otunga High School, Mosocho. The games between USIU Martials versus Mombasa RFC and Egerton Wasps against Mean Machine were postponed to next year. Kisii RFC coach Eric Bosire said the narrow win against Monks was a morale booster for his struggling charges. “This was a very important win for us. We have had several problems both on and off the pitch which have forced us to skip three games. However, I hope things will improve next year,” said Bosire. Bosire is confident he will help the bottom placed team from relegation. “I want to bolster the team by signing experienced players. Already, we are in talks with two of our former players whom we want to sign on loan. They will help these youngsters and also help us avoid relegation,” Bosire noted. Mean Machine remain third on the log without kicking the ball on 26 points while Eldoret RFC and Northern Suburbs are placed fourth and fifth with 20 points apiece. Egerton Wasps are placed sixth place on 18 points with USIU Martials, Catholic Monks and South Coast Pirates all tied on 17 points. University of Eldoret’s Trojans sit tenth on 15 points while Mombasa and Kisii occupy the bottom two positions.