Police in Lamu have raised alarm over increased child labour on the Lamu-Somalia border. Most of these areas are also known as terror-prone due to numerous attacks by al Shabaab militants in the past. County commissioner Irungu Macharia said there are reports of young children being recruited to work in the fishing industry either as fishermen, loaders or manual labourers. Speaking in Lamu on Monday, Irungu said investigations were currently underway to establish who is behind the illegal practice. He observed that the situation is worse in border areas of Ishakani and Kiunga. Reports indicate that children as young as 10 are actively working in the fishing industry. The commissioner said his office was also investigating cases of massive recruitment of children as domestic workers in various areas in the county. He warned that all those involved in various levels of child labour shall be arrested and prosecuted irrespective of whether they are parents or guardians. He said even parents don’t have the authority under Kenyan law to give out their young children as labourers for whichever reason. Many of the children are said to have dropped out of school to pursue the various trades. “We are already investigating all these suspected cases of child labour. We are also aware that some parents willingly give out their young children to work as labourers for monetary benefit. Children are supposed to be in school,” the administrator said. The commissioner said by offering free primary school education, the government is keen to ensure all children get the chance to learn without hindrances and that any other decision infringes on the child’s rights to education and a good future. Locals have been urged to report any cases of child exploitation to law enforcement agencies for action. “The government has sensitised law enforcement officers to handle such cases with the seriousness they deserve,” he said. Lamu County Child Protection Initiative chairperson Abdulaziz Sadiq noted that Kiunga, the largest fishing hub in Lamu, is notorious for recruiting children in the fishing sector. He encouraged parents, guardians and the entire community to familiarise themselves with the government’s approved Education Law which criminalises failure by parents to take children to school. Under the law, parents risk a one-year jail term or Sh100,000 fine for not taking their children to school. “School holidays like this one are normally exploited by those involved to recruit and subject minors to adult tasks and jobs. This must be stopped as they are also responsible for the high rate of school dropouts here,” he said. Edited by R.Wamochie