As a child, William Ruto's younger brother David with his brothers walked barefoot to school because clothing did not always fit into the budget of his poverty-stricken family. David Ruto's school was kilometres away and he had no option but to hit that road as wands of grass and stones tickled his soles. "We were poor. We (siblings) walked to school which was four kilometres away every day barefoot," David recounts. The skin that was once so tender had more resistance to the roughness of the path. The bare feet were not only exposed to sun-hit grounds, rocks, jiggers but also wet grounds with a squelch of mud clinching beneath when it rained. "There were no roads in the village I was brought up in Uasin Gishu...It was a forgotten area in the interior," he said. David's road to prominence as a  businessman, Masters graduate from Capella University, USA and a philanthropist began with a rocky childhood. The humble beginnings, however, have shaped him as a person. He now tours every part of the country, identifying the problems residents go through and act as a link to the relevant government officials. "I do not work for the Government. I am equivalent to a messenger, I visit any part of the country in discriminatory as every part of Kenya is important. I witness the problems and speak to the area MP for an amicable solution," he said. "We just do not want to hear stories from people of problems that residents in an area are facing. We are making a point to visit the area and ensure action is taken last weeks we were at the interior of Mathare slums." MESSENGER On Saturday, David with his team was invited for by the family of Geoffrey Mutua at Mwanyani village in Machakos County. One resident Joyce Mumo said, "This visit is such an honour. It is the first time to see someone this close to a senior politician. No politician comes here." Bad rocky roads, unsealed ditches flooded roads this is the situation in Mwanyani village. "We do not see our leaders here, the roads are impassable as well maybe that's why they can't come here," another resident said. A close confidant to David, Victor Ayugi who was in attendance said they visit remote areas weekly, listening to grievances of the residents and ensuring their problems are heard and solved. "Visiting Mwanyani village is not a one-time thing. We visit remote areas, listen to them, see their problems and follow up to see their area problems are solved," he said. On his part, David promised to talk to the Area MP on their behalf to find out what the problem is. "If your MP needs help accessing the DP. I will help him so that your problem of bad roads is resolved," he said. He also empowers residents to unite and become self-reliant by forming groups where ideas are shared among themselves. "Let's form groups, advise each other on matters we know best. Kama unajua kulima maembe mueleze mwenzako njia ya kupanda," he said. He also urged residents to unite and also engage with other communities for national cohesiveness. "Let us know other communities beyond our land. Engage with other communities for diversity. We have more than 42 tribes and they are all unique. Kenya ni yetu sote si bedroom ya mtu." Other members present during the event were businessmen Samuel Kibuku and Julius Musyoki, Deputy President William Ruto's Nyanza point man George Ayugi and Nderitu Gichohi . CHOIR BOY His brother, the Deputy President, a self-styled "hustler", who once sold chicken by a railway line rose from a humble, poor background to become a political kingmaker. "I sold chicken at [a] railway crossing near my home as a child. I built my father a house using my university boom [allowance]. I paid fees for my siblings. God has been kind to me and through hard work and determination, I have something," he said.