The country lost hundreds of millions of shillings to criminals in what turned out to be major money scandals this year. With most of the cases pending in court and only a few cleared, many suspects continue enjoying their freedom and the money believed to be proceeds of theft. Notable senior government officials, rogue police and military officers, private citizens and even security guards make the list of those involved. The latest arrest is that of Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko who was released on Sh15 million bond. The governor and his co-accused face 19 charges of corruption, abuse of office and irregular payments that saw the county lose Sh357 million. Sonko and City Hall officials are accused of facilitating and/or benefitting from irregular procurement and payments. The City Hall officials are Peter Mbugua Kariuki (county secretary), Patrick Mwangangi (head supply chain management) and tender committee members Samuel Ndung'u Mwangi, Edwin Kariuki Murimi, Lawrence Mwangi Mukuru, Preston Mwandiki Miriti. Others are senior clerical officers Wambua Ndaka and Andrew Nyasiego. Also to be charged are private persons and business entities that benefitted from funds irregularly acquired from the Nairobi City county government. According to the prosecution, Sonko got kickbacks amounting to millions of shillings after irregular award of tenders to his cronies and their family members. Before the City Hall scandal, there were other heists in which taxpayers lost millions of shillings. They include the Sh72 million Nairobi West robbery, Sh1.5 million theft at a Kitui bank and the NYS second scandal. In September, Sh72 million was stolen from the Standard Chartered Bank's ATM and G4S in Nairobi. Thirteen cash boxes were later recovered empty in Thogoto forest, Kiambu county, leading to arrests of suspects including police officers and security guards. The money was allegedly stolen from a G4S team by police impostors. A report from Kikuyu police station stated that a man tipped off police after he spotted broken cash boxes and bags from different banks. “On reaching the scene, they discovered empty bags from Standard Chartered Bank, Stanbic Bank, Kenya Commercial Bank and Barclays Bank,” the report said. Other items recovered include a mobile phone, a SIM card with serial number 89254021104175661927 and a G4S jacket. In the same month, robbers made away with an unknown amount of money at Odda airstrip in Marsabit county while on transit to Equity Bank, Moyale town. The money had been transported from Nairobi to Marsabit by air when three armed thugs struck. The three reportedly ambushed Equity Bank officials who had turned up to receive the money from the aircraft and stole it. The plane had three occupants during the incident: the pilot, his assistant and a cash officer from Wells Fargo courier company. Police said the bank officials were just about to receive the money before they were attacked. One of the gangsters flashed a pistol at the officials while the rest forced their way into the aircraft and stole moneybags. They escaped on a motorcycle that was at the waiting bay of the airstrip through the chain-link fence. Police said there had been no prior security deployment to protect the cash on arrival at the airstrip. In June, Sh1.5 million was stolen from Itoleka Financial Services Association in Kitui county after robbers dug a tunnel. Police said the thugs accessed the bank’s safe and making away with the money. Equipment used by the gangsters to dig the tunnel was recovered at the scene. The theft was similar to a case in 2017 where robbers dug a 30-meter tunnel and stole Sh50 million from KCB in Thika. The National Youth Service Sh791 million scandal also took centrestage in 2019. A junior policewoman who allegedly got Sh87 million in NYS II scandal was seized in October. Corporal Caroline Mango and her two daughters Peris Ajow and Briana Ajow were noticed by KRA after it was realized that their companies had received over Sh87 million but had not been remitting statutory tax. Mango’s bank accounts were temporarily frozen, but no charges were pressed against her. Several security guards and police officers were also arrested after being busted in money robbery syndicates. Some of them were caught on CCTV while stealing money from clients' bank accounts in ATMs in Nairobi. Thousands of Kenyans across the country fall victim of cons in every single day. Criminals have devised methods on how to rob citizens of their money either at gunpoint or through electronic money transfer.