 Kisumu's Nyalenda slum roared into life with praise songs for David Odhiambo Aboge following the realisation that their boy was among the top performers in this year's KCSE exam. Aboge scored an A (plain) grade with 87.080 points to become the third best student nationally after Buluma Tony Wabuko (87.159) and Barasa Maryanne Njeri (87.087) in the results announced by Education CS George Magoha on Wednesday Aboge, who turns 18 on Sunday, could not hide his joy over the excellent performance and the fact that he had made his mother proud. The former Kapsabet Boys High School student said the mother had sacrificed a lot to raise him and his two sisters. Aboge is the last born child. He said he wants to study medicine at the university to fulfill his dream to become a doctor. Aboge attributed his success to hard work, discipline, support from parents and teachers. “I expected to get good results but not to this extent. I thank my teachers and parents for the support they offered me,” he said Kisumu. In 2015, Aboge was among top performers in KCPE after scoring 434 marks out of a possible 500. He was a student at Xaverian Primary School in Kisumu town. There were also celebrations at Maseno School as the education giant maintained its top position in academics in Nyanza region. The school produced three students among the top 20 candidates nationally. It was also ranked seventh among schools with the most number of candidates scoring A (plain) grades. Maseno posted 23 A (plain) grades out of the 477 candidates enrolled for the exam.  Only Kenya High (76), Kapsabet Boys (49), Alliance High (48), Moi Kabarak (30), Alliance Girls (27) and Maryhill Girls (25) had more candidates scoring A (plain) grades. Maseno recorded more than 100 per cent improvement in terms of students scoring A plain grades. Only 10 recorded the grade in last year's exam. Masono's top student, Anthony Harvard Owuor, was ranked fourth nationally. He told the Star he wants to become a neurosurgeon. A joyful Owuor said his dream has always been to study medicine at Harvard University in the United States. He attributed his success to hard work, determination and prayers from his mum. He singled out teacher Alila Elkana as who prayed for him a lot. "My mum was my greatest inspiration and pushed me to achieve this. Even though I expected to excel, I am happy with my performance," Owuor said. He said he was happy to make his school proud despite overwhelming content and lots of books to read. The school's deputy principal Peter Nyawach said they were happy with the students and their performance. He said it was a result of hard work from both teachers and the students. "Dedication and commitment from both students and teachers led us to where we are today,” Nyawach said.  edited by p.o