  Mwingi professionals have opposed the Kitui county government's plan to convert the Mwingi Resource Centre to a satellite of the Kitui County Textile Centre. Through coordinator Campbell Munyambu, the professional said although the setting up of the Kicotec branch in Mwingi town was a good idea, it was counter-productive to house it in the only resource centre and meeting hall in the larger Mwingi region. Speaking to reporters Mwingi town on Tuesday, Munyambu said the establishment of the resource centre was informed by the need of the people. The resource centre was established during the administration of former Governor Julius Malombe. “It was a proposal by the residents to the county administration that the resource centre be set up just outside Mwingi town. Converting it to other use, would be going against the peoples’ wish,” Munyambu said. He Mwingi professionals were in the forefront of pushing for the establishment of the resources center. “As Mwingi professionals, we want to advise the county government to acquire land elsewhere in Mwingi and set up a garment factory.” Munyambu added, “The resource center-cum-meeting hall is the only facility where people from the larger Mwingi can hold large meetings and it should be preserved.” The facility constructed in 2016 has a capacity of 1,200 people. Governor Charity Ngilu's administration has proposed to construct two branches of the Kitui County Textile Centre in both Mwingi town and Mutomo trading center in Kitui town. The main Kicotec is based at Syongila in the outskirts of Kitui town. It was recently awarded a tender by the national government to manufacture uniforms for chiefs and their assistants. Last week, Deputy Governor Wathe Nzau confirmed the county sought to convert the Mwingi facility to a garment factory as part of the governor’s agenda to create job opportunities for the youth. “We have plans to have two more branches of Kicotec in both Mwingi and Mutomo. For Mwingi we will move with speed and convert Mwingi Resource Centre to a garment factory with some modifications,” Nzau said. Munyambu said they will reject the plan. He asked the county government to instead ensure the resource centre is connected to a steady supply of water. “The county government is free to construct a garment factory in Mwingi but they should not interfere with existing infrastructure that the people requested for. We are willing to help them acquire land and start their project,” Munyambu said.  edited by peter obuya