Nyeri county commissioner David Kipkemei has been transferred to Homa Bay after only five months of service in Nyeri. Kipkemei will be replaced by Loyford Kibaara, who was until his transfer to Nyeri the county commissioner for Wajir. The transfer comes amid claims that he was transferred because of the way he has been handling the political situation in the county, where several political meetings have turned chaotic. Kieleweke and Tangatanga supporters have gone physical in several instances during meetings. But Kipkemei told the media his transfer was normal and denied that it was as a result of what happened on Sunday, where the two political groupings fought at Giakanja High School. The AIPCA church fundraiser was attended by Deputy President William Ruto. Kipkemei said transfers were always normal in the civil service and his case was not unique. “Why it is a normal transfer is because this transfer was not about Nyeri only but it touched on several other counties,” he said. The administrator addressed the media at the regional commissioner’s boardroom in Nyeri town on Tuesday when he handed over office to the new county commissioner. Kipkemei said the people in charge of transferring people in the ministry are the Cabinet Secretaries and the Principal Secretaries, and no politician has power to transfer a civil servant. Kipkemei wondered why his transfer was raising a lot of interest. Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu had, a day after the chaos, told the media that he had launched a formal complaint with senior government officials, among them the PS and the CS requesting for the transfer of senior security officials over the way they handled the skirmishes at Giakanja. Wambugu said the police appeared to have taken political sides. But Kipkemei told the media he did not understand why they were linking his transfer to skirmishes or politics. The administrator said his tenure in Nyeri was good. “One thing I want to clarify to you is that there is nobody who will condone crime. We arrested people from both [political] sides because of what happened on Sunday, and we have taken them to court,” he said. On Monday, Nyeri assembly deputy speaker Samuel Kariuki was the latest to be taken to court, where he faced four charges of assault and malicious damage to property during the Sunday event. The Ruring’u MCA is believed to be the person who was captured on video that went viral beating another man with a stick. The administrator said even one of the MPs, who he did not name, was summoned and wrote a statement with the police and investigations are ongoing. “The PS and the CS were very happy about it and in fact, they gave us the directive to deal with any criminal gang,” he said. He said any politician or youth who is going to break the law will be arrested and taken to court even in his absence. On claims that he was transferred following the said formal complaint by the Nyeri Town MP, Kipkemei said politicians have no power to transfer anybody except their NG-CDF employees. “I don’t want you to give people undue credit. You know politicians will always talk.  But does that politician has powers to transfer any civil servant? In fact, if he is an MP, he can only transfer his CDF staff and not a civil servant,” he said. His transfer brings the number of county commissioners transferred in less than six months to two. Kipkemei’s predecessor Fredrick Shisia is said to have been transferred because of politics.  