Residents of Bulla Baraka in Madogo, Tana River county, are living in fear after a 39-year-old man was stumbled to death by a stray hippo early Wednesday morning. Osman Bonaya, a father of eight and a charcoal dealer, was heading to a site where he was preparing to burn charcoal along River Tana at around 6am alone when he was attacked by the lone hippo. A resident who was headed to the same area discovered the badly mutilated body at a nearby thicket and rushed back to inform the villagers. Police from Madogo police station accompanied by Kenya Wildlife Service warders from Garissa station arrived at the scene immediately and removed the body. Addressing the press outside Garissa Referral Hospital mortuary where the body was taken for postmortem, Madogo chief Aaron Kunyo said hippos and crocodiles are fleeing the swollen Tana River and are roaming in settlement areas. Kunyo urged KWS to enhance patrols along the flooded sections of the river to keep off the stray hippos. “Most of the residents along the river eke their living from farming, burning charcoal and selling firewood, among other activities. The floods, on the other hand, are forcing wild animals out of the river to settlement areas,” Kunyo said. “I am calling on KWS to increase their patrols, especially early in the morning when the residents are going to work and in the evening. This is to ensure the safety of our people,” he added. Residents who spoke to the press accused KWS of being lax and insensitive to the plight of area residents. Mohamed Dadho said a number of residents killed by wildlife as far as three years ago in the area have not been compensated. Dadho said despite the risk they face from the animals, KWS has not bothered to open a patrol office in Madogo. “Every time we have such an attack, we have to travel to Garissa to report the incident. We cannot remove the body until KWS arrives and they sometimes take too long to arrive,” he said. “I am appealing to KWS to open an office in Madogo and post rangers to patrol the Tana Riverside, especially in times of floods and drought when the attacks are common,” he added. The body of Bonaya was released to the family for burial in accordance with Islamic rites at a Madogo cemetery after the postmortem.