National reigning U-60kg champion Carlos Ochieng has attributed his good run in the recent past to the short training stint at the International Olympic Committee Solidarity Programme in Canada in August. He said he has seen great improvement ever since he attended the IOC  Solidarity Course and he is positive he will qualify for the 2020 Tokyo Olympic Games. “The programme has been fruitful this far and I am grateful for the opportunity. Now that I have completed my 'O' level education, I will have ample and sufficient time for training and I'm sure I will improve further,” noted Ochieng, at the sidelines of the second edition of the Japanese Ambassador's Cup on Saturday. Ochieng ruled his category over the weekend by beating Evans Omondi to successfully defending his title. The 2020 Olympics prospect garnered two consecutive wazari points to win the bout with an ippon. “My opponents were tough but I bet the experience I got from the IOC Solidarity programme and from the four world tournaments I  competed in in August and September gave me an edge,” added the teenager from Kajiado North Judo Club. Other winners of the day included Elizabeth Ruguthi of Gitothu JC who beat club mate Sarah Maina in women's U-70kg and John Kamau who brought down Denis Mwangi in men U-90kg finals. It was a coastal affair in the Girls U-48kg where Diani's Victoria Patrick defeated Malindi's Emily Karisa as Byron Masila (Diani) saw off Gatoghua's Fredrick Kimani in the finals. Speaking at the event, the Japan's ambassador to Kenya Ryoichi Horie said: "I am impressed with the talent I have seen here and I  hope many of you will qualify for Tokyo Olympics." Meanwhile, Kenya Judo Federation is still keen to to grow and develop the sport countrywide in terms of players and technical personnel. Duncan Chemiryo, KJF's deputy president said they also want tap into the players who are almost calling it a day in judo and train them as coaches and officials. “We (KJF) have embarked on a massive recruitment and development of cadet and juniors country-wide in the last three years. This is to ensure there is no vacuum created when senior judokas retire from the game. “We intend to transition those who are interested in technical positions,” said Chemiryo noting that many of these judokas who are almost ripe for retirement have shown interest in coaching and officiating.  