Algeria has declared its support for Kenya’s candidature for the non-permanent seat on the UN Security Council. The UN Security Council election is slated for June 2020. The incoming Algerian Ambassador to Kenya Selma Malika Haddadi said her country is convinced that the country is best placed to advance Africa’s interests at the United Nations Security Council. “Algeria fully and actively supports Kenya’s candidacy. We are convinced that Kenya is best placed to promote Africa’s interests at the UNSC,” Ambassador Haddadi said. She spoke on Wednesday at State House after presenting her credentials to President Uhuru Kenyatta. The President also received credentials from incoming Bangladesh High Commissioner Jahangir Kabir Talukder and non-resident High Commissioner Verna Mills from the dual-island nation of St. Kitts and Nevis who will be based in Havana, Cuba. Algeria is among the African countries that have held the UN Security Council seat three times alongside Ethiopia, South Africa and Uganda. Uhuru said as he received credentials from the new envoys that he is looking forward to working closely with them to enhance the existing strong ties between Kenya and their respective countries. The President also assured the envoys of his support to make their tour of duty in Kenya successful. The new Bangladesh High Commissioner Talukder applauded the warm bilateral relations between Kenya and his country and pledged to use his stay in the country to further strengthen diplomatic and economic ties between Nairobi and Dhaka. “It is my earnest hope that I shall succeed in my endeavours to promote further the relations that exist between the People’s Republic of Bangladesh and the Republic of Kenya,” High Commissioner Talukder said. On her part, High Commissioner Mills who becomes the first envoy to represent St. Kitts and Nevis in Kenya said the presentation of her credentials signalled the beginning of a new era of closer ties between her country and Sub-Saharan Africa. “As the first non-resident High Commissioner of St. Kitts and Nevis to Kenya, it is my earnest hope that I shall succeed in my endeavours to promote further the relations that exist between our two countries,” High Commissioner Mills said.