Rift Valley Railways (RVR) need not deposit Sh57 million in court as security in a breach of contract suit, according to the Court of Appeal. RVR got the reprieve from Judges Martha Koome, Sankale Kantai and Wanjiru Karanja pending the hearing and determination of an intended appeal. The intended appeal involves Siewa Furniture and Interior Designers Limited and the Kenya Railways Corporation. The judges said RVR's application was merited. RVR and Siewa entered into a contract on January 23, 2012, for the renovation of 20 train coaches at a cost of Sh194 million. The judges noted that Sh20 million "appears to have been paid" a balance of Sh174 million claimed by Siewa.  The suit is yet to be heard. The appellate court judges said that Siewa had entered into a concession with KRC to operate and manage the Kenya Uganda Railway line for 25 years.  The RVR took over Kenya Railways properties to enable it to run and manage the railway line. Among the properties taken over were the trains. In a bid to improve the train services, RVR decided to refurbish the old coaches and sought the services of Siewa. But it was unable to continue operating the railway line as expected and KRC terminated the concession agreement.  That was why the RVR moved to court. But before the matter was heard, the parties recorded a consent in which Siewa was supposed to hand back the property including the employees. Siewa had not completed refurbishing some of KRC old coaches and as such was not fully paid. The balance is what Siewa sought to recover from RVR. Lower court judge Ng’etich subsequently ordered RVR to deposit Sh 57 million in court as security for the claim pending the hearing and determination of the suit within 60 days. Aggrieved with the ruling, RVR moved to the appellate court in May last year, arguing that the order prejudged the outcome of the suit, thus condemning them unheard. RVR also argued that the judge misdirected herself by ordering RVR to deposit the said amount despite her finding that there was no mischief in the manner its assets had been retransferred to Kenya Railways. But Siewa said the appeal is not arguable as RVR had failed to demonstrate that it can pay the amount claimed and urged the court to dismiss the application, maintaining that the appellant will not suffer any prejudice if the money is deposited in court. RVR shares are owned by foreign entities among them Qalaa Holdings, an Egyptian company based in Cairo with 80 per cent shareholding. The remaining shares are held by Bomi Holdings of Uganda and international finance entities.