A postmortem has revealed that Appeal Court Judge James Odek died as a result of a clot in the vein of his right leg. Chief Government Pathologist Johansen Oduor said the clot dislodged and blocked pulmonary thromboembolism causing sudden death. “The clot chocked the heart. The cause of death is pulmonary thromboembolism,” Oduor said at Kisumu’s Aga Khan Hospital on Tuesday. He conducted the exercise alongside pathologist Dickson Mchana in the presence of the family members and DCI officers. The main cause of the clot is injuries to the legs. “But for Justice Odek, I think blood became static because of prolonged sitting. Being a Judge his work involves a lot of sitting. It is a risk factor,” Oduor said. Mostly, the clot is common in females because of hormones in the reproductive age group. Other causes of the clot are lifestyle and lack of exercise. A senior DCI officer revealed that investigations are ongoing with further tests expected. "We have forwarded all the evidence and exhibit we gathered at the scene to the government chemists in Nairobi,” he said. The officer, who sought anonymity,  said they are still analysing Odek’s phone calls. Judge Odek’s elder brother Yonah Odek said the report has been handed over to the Directorate of Criminal Investigations. “We will discuss it as a family after receiving it officially,” he said. Yonah said burial preparation is underway. Justice Odek will be buried on Friday at Asembo in Siaya county. His body will be viewed at the Kisumu High Court on Thursday before taken to St Paul’s Memba Church in Asembo for requiem mass then home for the night vigil. “Preparations to allow the Judiciary staff to pay their last respect to the departed colleague is on,” Kisumu Chief Magistrate Julius Ng’arng’ar said. A requiem mass for the judge’s body was also held on Monday at the All Saints Cathedral Church in Nairobi. Last week, the postmortem scheduled on Thursday was postponed following the directive by Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti. Kinoti directed that the exercise be done in the presence of Oduor who was not available by then. Yonah said they were advised that a postmortem must be carried out by someone of the status of a chief pathologist. "Considering the status of Justice Odek, the DCI wanted the exercise conducted in an organised manner and avoid any rising issues," Nyanza Regional DCI boss James Kipsoi said. Family members were advised to liaise with the office of Chief Justice David Maraga and Government pathologist to agree on the date and location. The government wanted to fly the body to Lee Funeral Home in Nairobi but the wife opposed it.“The Judiciary representatives are fully involved in all arrangements,” Yonah said. Odek, 56, was found dead on December 16 in his serviced apartment house in Kisumu. He stayed alone at the Groovehut Apartments near the Kisumu Central police station. He was found lying naked, face-up in his bed. His body was covered halfway by a blanket. Blood was oozing from his private parts and from his left ear and a hand was bruised, a police source said. Three sex-enhancing tablets, in a packet of six, had been taken but it was not known by whom or when a police report seen by the Star said. The postmortem had been delayed after the family requested more time to decide the place. Last week on Monday, Odek’s body which was set for airlifting to Nairobi was returned to Kisumu’s Aga Khan Hospital mortuary. Family members had opposed plans to fly the body to the Lee Funeral Home on Monday, saying they had not been consulted. Judiciary officials said they wanted the body airlifted. Yonah said the body was brought back to the hospital after consultation between the family and Judiciary officials. “We realised when his colleagues, families, and relatives wanted to view the body. After consulting, it was decided that the body be brought back to Aga Khan Hospital mortuary,” Yonah said. Justice Odek’s widow, Anne Achieng, was present at the hospital. Cases at the Court of Appeal in Kisumu have been halted until January out of respect for the judge. Justice Asikhe Makhandia made the announcement on Wednesday. "We will adjourn all our sittings until January next year," Makhandia said. Some of the adjourned cases set for hearing include retired President Daniel Moi's appeal against an ownership ruling 53 acres in Eldoret. The ruling delivered on May 8 in favour of former MP Noah Chelugui directed Moi to pay Sh1 billion compensation. Odek arrived in Kisumu on Thursday and was dropped home by his driver. The house was locked from inside with the judge's three phones inside. The TV was still on. Police had to break down the door. Two security guards manning the apartment have been questioned by police. Makokha said the guards from a private security company had recorded statements. “Their statements will provide information on what may have happened,” he said. The guards, the police chief said, are not suspects but will be crucial in the investigation "as they see people who get in and out of the apartment".