The Standard Gauge Railway Phase 2A contractor spent Sh100 million on 100 community projects while constructing the Ngong and Suswa link. The funds were invested in road repairs, water sharing, community facilities, culture and education, medical care, emergency response and rescue among other activities. The projects completed between January last year and August 31 are contained in a report released by the China Communications Construction Company Limited. The “CCCC Kenya SGR Project Social Responsibility Report 2018-2019” showcases various investments, in kind, made by the contractor. The projects include the Oloishoibor Community Water Supply Project in Kajiado which was commissioned by President Uhuru Kenyatta in October. It provides clean water to over 5,000 residents in Kimuka area. The water reservoir was noticed by the constructor during the construction of the Ngong Tunnel. “After examination, the crack water met the standards for drinking water and was thus the most precious resource for residents in constant severe water shortage,” the report said. Other CSR initiatives include the provision of water for livestock and schools by digging of large water ponds, boreholes and installation of water pumps. A Belt and Road Library was also established at Embulbul school in Ngong. The company also supplied classroom materials like blackboards, tables and chairs to kids in AIC Kitet Christian Academy in Mai Mahiu. In addition, over Sh30 million was spent by the contractor in staff training with 25 Kenyans receiving advanced training in China during the project period. The contractor also offered health-care services in rural areas through free clinics to local people. The construction of SGR Phase 2A took 54 months. The design incorporated 12 passages, 29 bridges and 148 culverts for large wild animals. It created nearly 25,000 local jobs, and 157 local companies participated in sub-contracting and supply of material in the project. This is in comparison to over 40,000 jobs for locals that were created in phase 1 from Mombasa to Nairobi and where more than 1,000 local companies got tenders. The launch event for the report will be presided over by Chinese special envoy Wang Yong and the Chinese ambassador to Kenya Wu Peng. Other expected at the launch as Chinese Embassy’s Economic and Commercial Counsellor Guo Ce, Transport CS James Macharia,  Treasury CS Ukur Yattani and Kenya Railways chairman Pastor Awitta. (edited by O. Owino)