Uganda President Yoweri Museveni and Busia Senator Amos Wako will lead a team tasked to engineer a federation for the six East African Community countries. The plan is to have a political bloc and a currency for the region’s 160 million-plus population, hence boosting its bargaining power on the global stage. Member states are Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, Rwanda, Burundi and South Sudan. Their integration pillars are common market, political federation, monetary union and customs union. Since 2004, the Community has been putting in place measures to fast-track political integration. On May 20, 2017, the EAC heads of state adopted a transitional model of the political federation in the form of a confederation. On Friday, Kenyan EAC and Regional Integration CS Adan Mohamed revealed that Kenya National Bureau of Statistics director-general Peter Kiguta will be part of the team. Kiguta, a macroeconomist, previously worked for the EAC and prides himself on having overseen the launch of the operationalisation of the regional Customs Union. Adan said the plans for one currency are underway and they have set up the East African Monetary Institute as the first step to realising the goal. “The thinking is to have one vision for this region and this is through a political federation... We are being assisted by Kiguta and former AG Amos Wako in that formation,” the Cabinet secretary said. Adan spoke in Nairobi during celebrations to mark the 20th anniversary since the revival of the EAC in 1999. The Community boasts of having grown twofold in membership — from the original three members to the current six. It has also created 13 border posts that control the movement of goods between members, hence providing boosting trade. Adan said a common market for East African products aims at providing a bigger market. “Today, you can travel from Kenya to Rwanda or Uganda with just your identity card. This is what we are talking about, removing restrictions to ease integration.” The CS said the focus is to eliminate all the tariff and non-tariff barriers in an effort to strengthen cooperation. However, despite the zealous ambition to unite the six countries, the EAC is increasingly facing internal tiffs. In June, tense relations between Kenya and Tanzania emerged after Starehe MP Charles Njagua threatened to drive out foreigners working in the giant Gikomba open-air market. In November 2017, Tanzania seized and auctioned 1,300 head of cattle from Kenya after they wandered across the border to graze. The moved strained their bilateral relations. Other member states are also mired in diplomatic spats that have undermined the ultimate EAC goal. CS Adan, however, downplayed the tension between member states, noting a lot had been achieved in a very short time. “People have focussed on the negative for a long time, yet we have so much to be proud of.” (Edited by F'Orieny)