Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko has refuted claims that he was fleeing arrest when he was arrested last Friday in Voi. Through his legal team led by counsel Cecil Miller, Sonko who on Monday appeared before Anti-Corruption Magistrate Douglas Ogoti to answer to Sh357 million graft charges at City Hall, said that he was on his way to Coast when he was apprehended. "This was a man who was going about his own business. Sonko is a man of means if he wanted to flee he could have. You cant run away using a public highway," Miller said. Sonko's lawyer said the governor needs an urgent chest CT scan and has already been given drugs for pain. He added that Sonko has possible rib fractures as well after his arrest. "He needs medical attention with the possibility of admission. Sonko did not assault police officers, instead he was the one who was assaulted," Miller said. Miller asked the court to grant his client bail as there is a possibility Sonko will be rearrested and taken to Voi. The DPP represented by Gitonga Riungu and James Kihara opposed Sonko's release on bail citing he had escaped prison before. Kihara added if Sonko is released on bail, he will interfere and intimidate the witnesses who are junior officers and employees of the Nairobi County Government. However, Miller denied the claims that the governor will interfere with witnesses, saying nothing has been no evidence to prove that. Miller denied that Sonko has a psychopathic following and cited Sonko's statement on Sunday where he asked his supporters to remain calm and observe the rule of law. "There's also nothing to support the allegation that Sonko has used his position to incite the CEC's from recording statements," he said. "The matter before court relates to garbage tenders at Nairobi County and on August27, 2019, EACC issued an invitation to Sonko to record statements relating to the issue. He appeared and offered crucial documents...so the allegation on Sonko declining to cooperate cannot apply." In reference to the Shimo La Tewa saga, Miller says a document from the then Commissioner General of Prisons indicates Sonko was discharged in 2001 in strength of securing bond and appeal being allowed. In the appeal, Justice Samuel Oguk quashed the sentences and prison term. Sonko's legal counsel includes Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Junior, Senator Kipchumba Murkomen of Elgeyo Marakwet, Dan Maanzo-MP Makueni and lawyer Nelson Havi. Other lawyers are; Cecil Miller, George Kithi, Alphonse Mutinda, Osundwa Michael, Harrison Kinyanjui and three others.