Magarini MP Michael Kingi has accused tycoons of using some poor elders in his constituency to buy huge chunks of land at a throw-away price. Kingi said the tycoons collude with government officials to buy hundreds of thousands of acres of land at a cheap price at the expense of the locals. The 'illegal trade' he said begun immediately after Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi initiated land adjudication process to settle the locals who have never had land ownership documents since independence. Speaking during Christmas celebrations with his constituents at Kamale Primary School, the MP said those tycoons who already bought land illegally would not get ownership documents. Hundreds of residents feasted 'Pilau' courtesy of the legislator who revealed that he was giving thanks to the people and found it important to celebrate Christmas with them. However, Kingi said it was unfortunate that the locals who were lucky to have huge chunks of land were selling it recklessly at a cheap price. In some areas, he said it was difficult to get even an acre of land but wondered why some were selling up to 200,000 acres at only Sh100,000. The MP said the elders who sold the land to the tycoons shall have to pay back the money. He said the area which was notorious for the sale of huge chunks of land was Adu ward which has attracted many tycoons buying up to 500,000 acres of land at a low price despite the fact that locals are yet to get tittles and are very poor. ''There are tycoons who have invaded our area, buying land and processing title deeds, they don't come here alone, they are normally brought by elders from this area,'' he said. Kingi said the elders are divided into different delegations who are acting as brokers involved in the land syndicate that is threatening the land of the locals. ''Recently some elders acting as brokers of tycoons pushed for the arrest of fellow elders in Marereni, I had to make phone calls that led to their release at night,'' he said. Kingi said the greedy elders were rushing to sell land and it would threaten the future generation. He said the register which was used to sell land to the tycoons will be revoked and no tittle deed shall be given to anyone who acquired land illegally. The MP said he would be very strict to ensure people do not give away their land which is a useful asset.