 @Yobramos4  Primary school headteachers on Monday expressed approval for the BBI report, saying it will address problems in the education sector. Those interviewed by the Star said they believe the proposals contained in the report will reduce teacher shortage and improve quality of education. “If properly implemented, the BBI will bring peace to the country. Peace is the most important ingredient for development. I believe with development all sectors, including the education sector, will benefit,” Mike Imwaminya said. Peter Mwaura said the BBI will bring peace and tranquillity, the conditions needed for learning to thrive. “Plus, there are other proposals in the BBI that will uplift the welfare of teacher including being able to elect the chair of the Teachers Service Commission,” Mwaura said. But Serah Mwikali said the Building Bridges Initiate report must adequately address teacher shortage to get her support. “If it does not provide for mechanisms for us to bridge the 300,000 teacher shortage gap in the country, we will still have the same problems we are having now,” Mwikali said. She said the Competency-Based Curriculum should have its policies set out in the report for a proper rollout. “Right now, the rollout is not working because we do not understand it properly. More teachers should be given time to be trained. This is what the BBI should be addressing, not positions,” she said. Knut secretary general Wilson Sossion rallied the teachers to support the document saying it will help unite Kenyans. “I have had a one-on-one conversation with the President and his request is, ‘Can the teachers of Kenya help me to deliver unity in this nation’,” Sossion said. “And I committed and said ‘Yes, we believe in unity.’ And therefore I request you in this forum to support any activity about uniting the country." “It doesn’t matter who is the President, who is the Prime Minister. What we need is peace,” said Sossion who also a nominated MP. He said teachers must participate in the politics of the country for their issues to be adequately addressed. He asked all teachers to read the report before preaching what it contains. “We are urging the leadership of this country not to fight over this report. It has nothing to do with your personal interests. Ni ya Wakenya (It is for Kenyans),” Sossion said. He said the handshake, entered between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition chief Raila Odinga has helped stabilise workers’ salaries. Before, he said, the economy was not doing very well because of the constant political tension which affected business. This, in turn, affected the flow of money, which then affected the salaries of workers who would often go for two months without pay, Sossion said. “When there is peace, the economy is good and when the economy is good, there will be good Collective Bargaining Agreements.” edited by p. obuya