The Water Resources Authority has directed flower farms and hoteliers whose structures have been submerged in water around Lake Naivasha to remove them within two weeks. With water levels around the lake rising sharply due to the ongoing rains, the authority noted that structures on the shores had been left under the water, threatening its ecosystem. According to the Naivasha sub-regional manager Geoffrey Mworia, majority of the structures were permanent and many of them were now under water. Speaking after visiting the lake, Mworia said that they had written to organisations whose structures were submerged to take action. “We have done a survey around the lake and we have noted with concern the high number of structures submerged in water,” he said. The senior officer added that they had given the owners a 14-day notice to remove the structures or face legal action. “In some of the cases, pump houses that use diesel are already in water and this is a major threat to the lake’s fragile ecosystem,” he said. Mworia added that water levels in the lake currently stands at 1889.2m above sea level, noting that this would rise due to the ongoing rains. “We expect the water levels to rise even further due to the heavy rains currently pounding parts of the Aberdares forest which is the lake’s catchment area,” he said. On his part, the chairman of Lake Naivasha Water Resources User Association, Enock Kiminta, said the lake was becoming shallower by the day. He attributed this to sediment washed into the lake, adding that there was need for proper environmental impact assessment before any pending projects was carried out. “The clearance of papyrus coupled with the mushrooming of informal settlements around the lake has heavily contributed to the increase in sedimentation,” he said. Kiminta added that the upcoming capital projects around Naivasha and its environs posed another threat to the troubled lake. “Naivasha is a water-scarce basin and the diversion of water to emerging projects like the dry port will definitely kill the lake and all the livelihoods that rely on it,” he said. Last week, Lake Naivasha and the nearby Lake Oloidien merged due to the rise in water levels in the former due to the rains. “After so many years we have seen lakes Naivasha and Oloidien merge and this is due to the current rains mainly in the catchment area,” he said.