The national government is implementing Sh1 billion irrigation projects in Murang’a to make the county food secure. Water and Sanitation PS Joseph Wairagu said the projects are at various levels of implementation and will empower residents through farming. In Kiharu constituency, Murika Mirichu, Miirira and Mukurwe wa Nyagathanga irrigation projects are being implemented. Kiharu is the largest constituency in the county with several semi-arid areas that have in the past relied on relief food during the dry season. Wairagu said Nyanjigi irrigation project in Kangema constituency is ongoing and the contractor is on site. In Mathioya constituency, the government has plans to work on irrigation projects in Gakoe, Irungu Wahundura and Kandabibi areas. In Maragua constituency, the government will construct a dam in Maragua ridge for Sh600 million to provide domestic and irrigation water. “The tendering process is ongoing for these projects that will help improve food security through sustainable agriculture,” he said. Wairagu spoke while touring water projects in Mathioya constituency on Friday. He further noted that the government is implementing domestic water projects worth Sh8 billion in the county. The PS said Kenol town will for the first time have a sewerage system following the establishment of a Sh1.2 billion water supply and sewerage system. The project is undergoing tendering and will help to further spur development in the fast-growing town. Residents and investors in the town sink boreholes to get water. The PS also toured Gatango water project that will channel water from Kairo in Mathioya to Kamacharia and Gakurwe in Kiharu constituency. Wairagu said the government has initiated a water project in each of the eight subcounties to increase water connectivity. Ithanga water project in Gatanga that has cost Sh2.4 billion is nearing completion and will supply the area with both domestic and irrigation water. It is being funded by the national government in partnership with the Belgium government. Wairagu also distributed 5,000 avocado seedlings to farmers and pledged to supply more in April next year. Mathioya MP Peter Kimari praised the government for implementing numerous development projects to uplift the lives of Kenyans. “There are so many projects, including roads, power and water that are being done in Mathioya alone and will be completed before 2022,” the MP said. His Gatanga counterpart Joseph Nduati urged Kenyans to support the government in its bid to unite the country. 