Governors insist the monopoly of the Kenya Medical Supplies Authority must end before the Universal Health Coverage goes national next year. On Monday, they said Kemsa lacks the capacity to satisfy the expected high demand for drugs and non-pharmaceuticals across the 47 counties. In May, MPs amended Section 4 of the Kemsa Act to give the authority a near-absolute monopoly in the supply of drugs to public health facilities all over the country. The Act now provides a Sh2 million penalty or five years imprisonment, or both, for anyone who purchases drugs from other firms. Governors, however, said major supply problems were experienced during the UHC pilot in Kisumu, Machakos, Isiolo and Nyeri. "Feedback from the four pilot counties should be taken into account and proper mechanisms should be put in place to ensure value for money," Council of Governors chairman Wycliffe Oparanya said after a council meeting in Nairobi on Monday. Several non-pilot counties also report delayed supplies from Kemsa and high prices which they attribute to its monopoly. Before the Act was amended, counties had the choice of buying from independent suppliers or the Mission for Essential Drugs and Supplies, owned jointly by the Kenya Conference of Catholic Bishops and the Christian Health Association of Kenya. In September, the county bosses also moved to the High Court demanding an end to the Kemsa monopoly. On Monday, Oparanya said they fully support the UHC and are looking forward to its full implementation. COG's head of health committee Mohammed Kuti (Isiolo) co-chairs the UHC Inter-Governmental Committee where all decisions are made. "Our discussions today reveal successes and challenges in the implementation of the pilot phase of the project," Oparanya said. The Kakamega governor further asked the government to clarify how the recruitment of more health workers would be carried out. At least 100,000 community health workers will be hired to support the UHC, according to the Health ministry. Hundreds of nurses will also be hired because the government expects an increase in the number of people visiting health facilities. "So far, we have recorded an average increase in the utilisation of health services, ranging from 20 per cent to 44 per cent," Health Cabinet Secretary Sicily Kariuki told the Star in July. Public health facilities will also hire more clinical officers, laboratory and pharmaceutical technology officers and all allied health workers. Oparanya called for clarity on the model and timeliness of funds flow for UHC. "We urge the national government to expeditiously resolve the above issues to enable the county governments to sign the Intergovernmental Personnel Act not later than January 2020 as directed by the President," he said. Edited by R.Wamochie