The Kenya Revenue Authority in collaboration with the Directorate of Criminal Investigations has seized a consignment of 7,500 litres of ethanol with an approximate tax value of over Sh2 million. The ethanol concealed in a water tanker was intercepted at Sultan Hamud, Makueni County. Upon examination, the tanker was found to be carrying 2,500 litres of water in an outer compartment while the second concealed compartment was discovered containing 7,500 litres of ethanol. The samples were withdrawn and taken for testing at the KRA and Government chemist laboratory and the test results confirmed the consignment to be ethanol. The truck driver was arrested and will be arraigned in court alongside the truck owner. DCI Investigations are still ongoing to ensure that the beneficial owners and the smugglers are apprehended and charged. Police officers on November 19 intercepted 13,500 litres of ethanol with a tax value of more than Sh4.15 million at the Kenya-Tanzania border in Loitokitok. The sleuths from the Department of Criminal Investigations, led by their newly posted boss, David Wanjama, intercepted two trucks at an illegal border entry. The drivers of the trucks and a prominent Kimana town trader, with alcoholic outlets in Kajiado South sub-county and outside, were arrested and locked up at Loitokitok police station. The consignment, packaged in fifty-four 250-litre plastic containers, was concealed under rice husks and sweet melons aboard the trucks, headed to the Kenyan side from Tanzania. Similarly in October, police detectives acting on a tip-off from the public impounded over 8,900 litres of ethanol at Kamandura, Kiambu County on Monday night. Two suspects (both drivers) Edward Ngure,45, and Duncan Mutuma,38, were arrested and are in police custody waiting to be arraigned. Police said the ethanol is suspected to have been smuggled into the country from Uganda. The  operation which was led by Tigoni-based detectives located a trailer (UAX 905Y ) offloading 42 drums of Ethanol to the Isuzu Canter(KCR 573K). The two vehicles were also impounded.