Rayton Okwiri believes his first title defence over Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) opponent Augustine Matata will open the mighty doors of glory overseas. Okwiri made his sentiments after successfully defending the Africa Boxing Union (ABU) middleweight title at Charter Hall on Saturday night. His first title defence since winning the vacant ABU belt in June against Hussein Itaba of Tanzania stretched his unbeaten record to six wins and one draw. Okwiri racked up the title on unanimous points decision against the Kinshasa-based boxer. "I'm now ready for bigger things after ruling my weight division at continental level. I am hoping to now get a shot at bigger titles like WBC and Commonwealth. We thank God for today's (Saturday) win. My fans have been awesome tonight. Without you, we wouldn't have retained the title," Okwiri remarked. He continued: "I would like to thank Dave Kim, Parrot Group, 22Bet, Finix Casino and everyone who has been with me through this journey. Thank you guys and I believe the the real journey begins now," he noted. In our number one, Hamza Ssenyonga of Uganda knocked out Edwin Mesuala. Super featherweight Jane Kavulani won bout number 2 on points against Nicole Achieng. James Mugeni defeated Kennedy Omondi on points in bout number 3. Rebah Matanda defeated Fanis Mwanaidi  with a first-round technical knock out. Former Kenyan international Nick Otieno 'Kanyankole' defeated Joshua Osotsi on unanimous points in a featherweight non-title. In bout number 6 Frank Otieno was knocked out by Albert Kimaru in the first round. It was a very bad knockout that sent Otieno tumbling on the canvas. Evelyne Adero defeated Joyce Awino on unanimous points in the ladies super lightweight non-title. Kenya Professional Boxing Commission (KPBC) chairman Reuben Ndolo said they are preparing Okwiri for the Commonwealth Games fight in March. After March, Ndolo said they are hoping Okwiri will have a shot at the world title. He, however, predicted that both boxers are headed for bigger things if their performance in the fight that went 10 rounds is anything to go by. " That was a good fight. I have not watched such a quality fight in Africa for a long time. The DRC boxer is equally good and even admitted that Okwiri deserved to win," he added.