A total of 100 bright but needy students who excelled in this year’s KCPE will benefit from the Vihiga governor’s scholarship programme. Governor Wilber Ottichilo on Friday at the county headquarters in Mbale launched the second governor’s scholarship and county education bursary programmes for 2020. Expressing delight at this year’s KCPE results, Ottichilo lauded the county’s department of education, teachers, parents and other stakeholders for ensuring Vihiga was among counties which posted good results nationally. The governor also acknowledged the role the scholarship played in producing good results. “We visited almost all primary schools where we encouraged this year’s KCPE candidates to score good marks in order to benefit from the governor’s scholarship programme,” Ottichilo said. Records indicate that 570 pupils scored above 350 marks in the county, a situation that has compelled the scholarship’s committee to revise application requirements. “Besides an applicant coming from extremely poor background, they will be required to have scored above 370 marks in order to qualify for the 2020 scholarship unlike this year when the cut off mark was 350,” Ottichilo said. Each beneficiary will receive fully funded scholarship package of Sh100,000. Part of the scholarship would be used to pay fees for the students while the rest would be used to meet other costs including transport, purchase of stationery, textbooks and personal effects. The county boss reiterated that the main objective for the scholarship, which was inaugurated in January, was to boost academic standards as well as increase professionals in diverse development fields who will serve the county in future. “We are doing this in order to produce enough professionals that will provide technical services for sustainable economic growth and development of Vihiga county,” said the county boss. He officially released the scholarship application forms to the 25 Ward Administrators who were present. “Fully filled scholarship forms should  be submitted to ward administrators’ offices by December 30 to enable the committee in charge process and disburse the same to beneficiaries before schools reopen in January,” the governor added. The Governor also launched the Sh100 million county bursary scheme that will be disbursed to needy students in secondary schools, colleges and universities. Each ward has been allocated Sh4 million from the bursary kitty.