For Nairobians, 2019 has been a "different year, with the same problems". The age-old challenges remained unattended. The short rains season brought misery as roads and homes were flooded in certain parts of the city. Last Saturday evening, Governor Mike Sonko tweeted from the comfort of his office as residents were stuck in traffic jams for hours: “Mvua imenyesha kinomaree. Leo ni ndani kwa ndani (It has rained heavily today. Will just have to stay indoors)”. Those not in traffic jams were fighting to save their properties from flood waters. The Sonko tweet was accompanied by photos of him seated in the office. The tweet no doubt drew the ire of city residents as it portrayed a governor not bothered with the suffering of Nairobians. But this was one of the many scripts that played out all year of a governor oblivious of the tribulations of his people. Garbage remains an eye-sore in the central business district and the outskirts close to 18 months after Sonko promised to eradicate the problem within 100 days of assuming office. Charity Mbithe, a resident of Embakasi, lamented the accumulation of garbage in her neighbourhood. “There is so much litter everywhere as people throw garbage all over and even out of car windows,” Mbithe said. The County Fiscal Strategy Paper for 2019-20 set aside Sh1.9 billion for development projects, key among them waste management. Sonko seems to have met his Waterloo in October 2019 as the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission grilled him over the irregular award of garbage collection tenders. Part of the Sh1.9 billion was to improve access to water and sewerage facilities across the city. But the year comes to an end with city residents grappling with water rationing. Under the Equitable Water Distribution Programme, the Nairobi County Water and Sewerage Company has been rationing water intermittently in different localities. The latest round of rationing under the programme was implemented on November 26. As if to rub salt into Nairobians' wounds, acting NCWSC managing director Nahason Muguna in August said water rationing will continue for the next three years. Now, many residents are at the mercy of water vendors who charge Sh20- Sh50 for a 20-litre jerrican. Some of the water is untreated and not fit for human consumption. Paul Too, a Nyayo Estate resident, is accustomed to water rationing. “My budget must nowadays include the purchase of water from vendors yet I still pay taxes to be supplied with water.” Transport is another costly item for Nairobians. 2019 remains false dawn for Nairobians who expected the implementation of the bus rapid transit (BRT) mooted as the solution to the perennial traffic congestion in the city. It was also to reduce transport costs, especially at peak hours. Thika Superhighway, Outering Road, James Gichuru/Waiyaki Way, Lang'ata Road to Juja Road and T-Mall to Jogoo Road were mapped out for BRT. There is nothing to show for that except the fading red markings. The shortage of funds has been blamed for the stalled project. Transport Cabinet Secretary James Macharia's promise in January that the BRT buses would arrive in the country after a month remains a mirage. Meanwhile, Nairobians continue to spend most of their travelling hours on Nairobi roads – a costly Sh1 billion affair per yea,r according to a 2019 report by the Nairobi Metropolitan Authority. Susan Achieng' from Kariobangi North laments that 2019 has been a difficult year. “Matatus in Nairobi tend to overcharge on fares especially when it is raining. For me, it has been doubly difficult as I do not have a stable source of income yet I need to move around," she said. Apart from having to fork out more money for survival, crime has been every Nairobian's worst nightmare. Muggings in the CBD and elsewhere were on the rise. A March investigative report by the Star exposed the muggings of commuters by criminals posing as touts. These "touts" mob their victims under the guise of escorting them to a vehicle. They either threaten the victims with knives or outrightly rob them. The suffering of most Nairobians is not about to end even as 2019 ends. Who knows what is in store in 2020? Nairobians' bottled up anger might erupt into a volcano.   