ODM leader Raila Odinga has launched a scathing attack on Deputy President William Ruto whose source of wealth he says needs to be investigated. Raila said that Ruto should step aside and allow investigations on how he can afford to contribute to churches and host huge delegations now and then in his Sugoi home. "We need to hold the bull by its horn, which individual can be having that kind of money to dispense? Having delegations at your place every now and again,  paying for their transport and giving them kiinua mgongo, it is the impunity of the highest order," Raila said. In an interview with Citizen TV aired on Friday night, Raila also said that Ruto and his supporters should not behave as if the presidency is reserved for the DP "There are so many Kenyans who want to be president in 2022, not only the DP…I don't know who ever told him... who ever said that Kenyans will only go for one person in 2022," Raila said. He added; "That position is not reserved for anybody. There may have been discussions among some people but those you can call them bedroom or boardroom or backdoor negotiations." Raila told Citizen TV that though he has joined up forces with Uhuru on fighting corruption, this does not mean that anyone is fighting Ruto. “I don’t even fight him myself… I talk about vices and if talking about the vices makes me the devil incarnate in Jubilee then I don’t mind, I have been talking about these issues even before the handshake and I won’t change my character just because of the handshake,” Raila said. However, Raila also said that there was need to investigate people who have been contributing large sums of money to churches. This is seen as an open attack on Ruto who has maintained that he will continue to contribute to churches despite criticism from other people. "You have a situation where individuals are moving around with sacks full of money every Sunday looking for harambees to go and donate," Raila said. He added; "Until there is boldness enough to face those people directly and tell them to step aside we do lifestyle audit on you, we are just scratching the surface."