Gor Mahia travel to face a struggling Kisumu All Stars tomorrow at the Moi Stadium, Kisumu without the services of the duo of want-away strikers Francis Afriyie and Gislein Yikpe. The two did not report to training at Camp Toyoyo yesterday for the final training session ahead of the match with assistant coach Patrick Odhiambo confirming that their whereabouts are unknown. The two bosom buddies are reportedly pushing for their release letters, thanks to the financial turmoils at the club. Yesterday, the towering Ivorian Yikpe was heavily linked with a move to record Tanzanian champions Yanga while Afriyie is understood to have landed a deal in South Africa. Gor, who will be looking to scale to the top of the league,  are also likely to miss the four players who were with Harambee Stars for the concluded Cecafa Senior Challenge. Gor players downed their tools after their last league match against Ulinzi Stars on Novermber 30 in protest for their delayed four month salaries. The disgruntled unit, however, had something to smile about this week after the management wired cleared dues for one month hence resumed training on Thursday. “All the players apart from those who were with the national team for the Cecafa Senior Challenge reported for training. However, Yikpe and Afriyie did not turn up and we do not know of their whereabouts. We would have wanted them to be part of our plans but we have to look for options. The players looked fit despite absconding training in the past two weeks,” said Odhiambo With Afriyie and Yikpe unavailable, coach Steven Polack will heavily rely on Nicholas Kipkirui who had fallen to third in the pecking order to punish All Stars who were also reported to have been on strike. Meanwhile, Ulinzi Stars will be gunning to bounce back to their winning ways when they host another struggling outfit Zoo Kericho at the Afraha Stadium. The soldiers who are placed sixth with 22 points and are unbeaten in the last ten matches, shared spoils with Kakamega Homeboyz in their last match and will be out to register their sixth win of the season. Zoo, on the other hand, will be seeking to redeem themselves from a 4-1 defeat in the hands of Western Stima which left them five points above the red line. AFC Leopards, who their players have not been training host Mathare United at the Mumias Sports Complex. Ingwe lie eighth with 19 points two ahead of their match day opponents.