 The Kakamega county government is looking to raise Sh2 billion from its own revenue streams in 2020, Governor Wycliffe Oparanya has said. Oparanya told a revenue collection review meeting on Christmas eve that local collections had increased "tremendously" since the suspension of revenue officers. The governor suspended about 400 revenue clerks in September and replaced them with community administrators. Oparanya accused the revenue clerks of failing to meet targets. The meeting was held at the Golf Hotel in Kakamega town. The county administration had begun a disciplinary process for the suspended officers but the labour court in Kisumu halted the process pending hearing and determination of a suit filed by the workers. Oparanya said collections had more than doubled for the four months the revenue clerks have been away.  The county has been collecting an average of Sh500 million from its own revenue streams annually since the inception of devolution in 2013. Earlier, Oparanya said the county government used its own funds to pay November and December salaries after the National Treasury declined to release the county's revenue allocation. Kakamega is among the 38 counties that had their disbursements withheld over failure to settle pending bills by November 30 as directed by President Uhuru Kenyatta in June. Though the high court ordered Treasury to release funds to the devolved units, the national government insists the counties will receive their disbursements next year after clearing pending bills. On Jamhuri Day, Oparanya said the pending bills persisted because some governors who are serving their first terms mistook some bills to be fake prompting an audit to establish authenticity before they are cleared. Oparanya who is also the Council of Governors chairman said counties should focus on enhancing their own revenue sources so delays in receiving their shareable revenue don't disrupt services. County governments have been accusing the national government of frustrating devolution by delaying disbursement of funds.  edited by p.obuya