@mfalmesoloo Farmers in human-wildlife conflict-prone areas of Kajire in Voi, Taita Taveta, have ditched maize for sunflowers to stop elephant raids on their farms. Green and yellow now characterise the agricultural rich farmlands at the foot of Sagala Hill. Patrick Kilonzo, popularly known as Waterman of Tsavo, said he has urged farmers to adopt sunflower farming after years of crop destruction. Kilonzo was in June awarded Head of State Commendation by President Uhuru Kenyatta for delivering water to thirsty wild animals in Tsavo National Park. “I have lobbied villagers to drop all indigenous crops so that we can keep elephants away. Most of the farmers are waiting to harvest sunflowers. For the first time we shall sell produce from our farms,” he said. He said that non-lethal methods can be effectively used to reduce elephant attacks in the area that lies on the jumbo’s migration corridor. Kilonzo said they have partnered with leading oil manufacturing companies to directly sell their harvest. “Collectively, we have put over 75 acres under sunflower plantations and this has attracted reliable buyers. Many farmers who had given up are eagerly waiting to make their maiden sale. We are happy we had enough rain this season,” he said. Farmer Janet Mwandembo said her children dropped out of school for lack of fees since all her crops would be destroyed by stray elephants every year. However, she expressed hope for the new crop, pointing out that she has also ventured into beekeeping. “Sunflower is a good source of nectar for the bees. Both ventures are doing well and it is a great blessing to this village,” she said. Mwandembo said the bees also keep elephants away. She urged the Kenya Wildlife Service (KWS) to compensate farmers who incurred losses following the perennial human-wildlife conflict that amounts to millions of shillings. Mwandembo said the compensation process had been deliberately delayed despite farmers recording their claims with the government. In January, hundreds of Sagala and Kajire farmers recorded statements at Voi police station after weeks of protests on theMombasa-Nairobi highway. However, nothing has been done despite government’s numerous promises of compensation. On Jamhuri Day in Mwambiti grounds, Voi deputy county commissioner Joseph Mtile told residents that the government is using a multi-agency approach to solve the perennial attacks. “Government is working around the clock to achieve a long-lasting solution. Let us all collaborate and shun inciting remarks that might jeopardise the efforts,” the administrator said. Sagalla MCA Godwin Kilele urged KWS to drive the herds of jumbos back to their habitat in the Tsavo National Park. He said elephants have negatively affected education and food production in the region. 