Lamu county government is pushing for the return of night travel for public service vehicles on the Lamu-Mombasa Highway to cater to the high number of travellers. In July 2014, the national government banned night travelling on the highway following a spate of al Shabaab attacks targeting passenger and security vehicles. PSVs were instead directed in one convoy that’s normally accompanied by an armed police escort, an arrangement that is still practised to date. However, more than five years later, the county government wants the ban lifted to allow more convenient travelling for those interested in coming to or leaving Lamu by road. Speaking in Lamu on Wednesday, Infrastructure CEC, who is also acting in Tourism docket, Fahima Arafat said the county government was currently in talks with the security department to urge them to lift the ban especially at this time when visitors and tourists are flooding Lamu. Lamu will this week host the Lamu Cultural Festival which is expected to attract more than 30,000 visitors, according to the CEC. Other guests are flooding the region for the December festivities. Arafat lauded the security apparatus in their efforts to ensure peace and tranquillity is restored. She also lauded the government in its effort to speed up completion of the Lamu-Garsen main road which she says has made road travels to Lamu easy. “We want a situation where people can travel at any time they wish, with no limitations." Meanwhile, stakeholders in the Tourism industry in Lamu have appealed to airline companies to increase the number of flights to the region during this season to cater to a large number of visitors. According to the stakeholders, ever since the Silverstone Airline withdrew its flights from the region pending investigations, many tourists and visitors have cancelled their plans to travel to there due to the now limited number of flights. Former Lamu Tourism Associationchairperson Ghalib Alwy said, “Many want to come but the heartbreaking part is that there are very few flights plying Lamu and they can’t deal with the high number of travellers." Edited by R.Wamochie