Adversity is writ large across the diary of Wanjiku in 2019, but she registered some triumphs that bespeak her resilience. In good times and bad, the Star was there to dig up and document her untold stories on its feature pages. From having her innocence traded for beads to being a willing seller to willing buyers, from being dispossessed after getting widowed to barely surviving a hammering by a lover, Wanjiku had a long year. But she also made historic innovations and thrived in the international arena against great odds. The Big Read and Sasa sections captured her struggles and successes in depth through features, a genre media trainer Judie Kaberia defines as, “Colourful pieces that deal with real events, placing an emphasis on the people involved.” Below is a list of the best in 20 categories, starting with one that touches on Wanjiku’s worst fears in this economy. 1. Best TRAUMA Feature How being declared redundant led one man to alcohol By Jane Abukutsa Excerpt: He remembered six years earlier, when the Finance Manager of one of the companies within the group was terminated. He did not inform his wife that he no longer had a job. For eight months, the poor man would leave home every morning at the usual time but he would head to an upmarket cyber café, where he would spend his whole day. Wafula remembers laughing at the man. But now that he, Wafula, was facing the big R, he empathised with the man. Runners-up: Family’s horror after missing son pops up online cheering Shabaab How being tagged ‘spy with a gun’ shook innocent journalist 2. Best SURVIVAL Feature Diaspora nightmare for Nandi woman clobbered till hammer lodged in skull By Barry Salil Excerpt: “I was sweating and trembling, pleading with him to spare my life as I remembered my son Florian and my six siblings and mother, who were looking up to me for support. But he could not listen. When he pulled the trigger, the gun jammed… God had jammed it,” Elizabeth Kogo, 37, recounted. Runner-up: Man beats stage 3 cancer after wife fled with treatment funds 3. Best HUSTLING Feature The resilience of Kenyan immigrants in the US By Elizabeth Mwarage Excerpt: “I have fulfilled my dream. I have done odd jobs so that none of my children will do the same. Now that they are all working, I can go back home to retire.” Runners-up: How workers hawk goods in the office to make ends meet Betting addicts throng Uganda to escape 20% tax on winnings 4. Best HARDSHIP Feature Decades later Shona speak Kikuyu but still lack IDs By George Mugo Excerpt: “I have been frustrated. I was born by my parents who I live with in Kinoo. I’m confused since I cannot start a business, and from the analysis of issues, I find myself being confined to being a cobbler. I repair shoes and I can see myself with all the talents I have remaining a cobbler,” footballer James Kiziwacho said. Runners-up: Soapstone carvers live a hard life crafting 'white gold' Plight of interns caught between a sick economy and meaningful employment 5. Best GENDER Feature In-laws from hell grab property, kids of widows By Malemba Mkongo Excerpt: “They said I killed my husband so I could inherit the land we had bought. I could not take in the pain of losing a husband and being accused of killing him. It was too much for me,” she said. Runners-up: Why odds are still stacked against women in life Plight of parenting an intersex children What population summit means for women's rights 6. Best CHILD ABUSE Feature By Njeri Mbugua Samburu morans give beads to bed little girls Excerpt: “They are babies and should not be having intercourse. It is a traumatic experience because they are not prepared for intercourse at all at that time,” Dr Allan Adungo, an obstetrician, said. Runner-up: Sex tourists prey on minors pimped by own parents in Mtwapa 7. Best STIGMA Feature Shelter where suspected witches feel like hunted animals in Kilifi By Ernest Cornel Excerpt: The sanctum, filled with skeletons, jack-o-lanterns and a pot, is for the oath-taking and ‘healing’ the sick. Seashells and oil are among the healing potions the magicians rely on for their rituals. Other paraphernalia are hidden in a hut that is forever kept dark. They possess ‘powers’. Runner-up: Don’t judge a woman by her motherhood — Millie Odhiambo 8. Best UNDERWORLD Feature Streets, apps and brothels: 'Illegal' sex work booming By Caren Nyota Excerpt: “Although I was rained on, cheated, arrested and beaten by fellow sex workers, one day I'll go back. Prostitution is like witchcraft, you can't stop it once it's in your blood.” Runners-up: ‘Devil’s breath’ used to hypnotise, rob victims Slums fear and revere ‘killer police squads’ How women, schoolgirls are lured into drug trade How police trap motorists into paying bribes 9. Best TABOO Feature Why men should not fear vasectomies By Geoffrey Mbuthia Excerpt: “A lot of people think it is castration, but it is not. It is a modern, safe and effective family planning method for men whose families are complete,” Dr Charles Ochieng, 45, said. Runners-up: Gays vexed but not cowed in fight for space Culture shock hits Kenyans on women inheriting father’s land Painful relief: When girls resort to abortion 10. Best LEGAL Feature Battles for ailing parents’ properties show the need to write ‘living wills’ By Jillo Kadida Excerpt: The advantage of having a living will is first, you as a parent decide who is best suited to take care of you and your wealth. Secondly, it saves the family from unending legal battles, which sometimes lead to bad blood. Runner-up: Why suspects change their minds after pleading guilty 11. Best HEALTH Feature How herbal clinics make guinea pigs of Kenyans By Magdaline Saya Excerpt: They are greeted with a pile of leaflets on the receptionist's table, indicating the diseases they cure and the time frame. They include chronic diseases, such as cancer, gynaecological complications and detoxification agents. Some promise healing in as little as two weeks. Runners-up: How patients are prescribed so many drugs, it’s killing them How safe is your sukuma wiki? 12. Best ACHIEVEMENT Feature Strathmore underdogs who downed Harvard to win global law contest By Lewis Nyaundi Excerpt: They came to the limelight as not only the first African students but also the youngest to win a global law competition: the John H Jackson Moot Court on World Trade Organisation (WTO) Law. Runners-up: How I shed 46 kilos to get six-pack — Mvita MP Abdulswamad Shariff Air Force aviation engineer does it for God and country 13. Best INNOVATION Feature Could this Kenyan give the world HIV cure? By John Muchangi Excerpt: “Within a few weeks, the HIV is completely gone and there is no rebound,” Prof Benson Edagwa, 37, told the Star in Nairobi. Innovate or end up ‘tarmacking’: Varsity churns out job creators Kenyans turn to digital careers as technology alters job market 14. Best FARMING Feature Modern farming needs little rain or land By Melanie Mwangi Excerpt: “You find youths migrating from the rural areas to the city in search of work, yet they’ve left a shamba back at home because they were told in the town is where they will get jobs and money.” Runner-up: Farmers sell eggs at throwaway prices, burn trayloads as imports hurt profits 15. Best SPORTS Feature Schools that used to shine in sports now dwarfed in games By Agnes Makhandia Excerpt: According to teachers and other stakeholders, different goings-on are to blame for the dip in performance among the once indomitable schools. They cite lack of incentives, age cheating, poaching, academic pressure and change of management. Runner-up: How team with quirky goal celebrations lifted youth from crime to world-beaters 16. Best TOURISM Feature Why Diani risks losing its award-winning tourism appeal By Mbaruku Mohammed Excerpt: The research covered the social and economic impacts of dredging activities off the coasts of Kwale and Mombasa counties. It predicts a looming collapse of Diani’s beach-dependent tourism. Runners-up: It’s time for Kenya to invest in medical tourism The untold story of Mama Ngina Waterfront Park 17. Best ENVIRONMENT Feature The change began as a ripple: How ex-gangsters created a park By Cathy Watson Excerpt: “It was a mountain of garbage here, a thieves’ hideout. Men could pull you here from the road and God-knows-what would happen,” says Sarah Nyambura, 34, one of the women involved. Runner-up: How 'crazy mzungu' built nature park in Malindi in 20 years 18. Best WELFARE Feature The dream chasers of Mully Children's Family By Allan Kisia Excerpt: MCF’s work has inspired many and earned it multiple plaudits. Hollywood star Morgan Freeman flew into the country in December last year to interview the founder, Charles Mulli. The Academy Award winner travelled all the way from the US and spent time at the MCF. 19. Best SHOWBIZ Feature What makes the Nyege Nyege festival tick By Davies Ndolo Excerpt: Kenyan artiste MC Yallah, who made the lineup this year, agrees that the most noticeable aspect about the event is the ability to meticulously put together a festival without any A-list artistes. Runner-up: Quality question haunts the push to play Kenyan music 20. Best COMMENTARY Feature Kenya’s potential undone by barons, cartels — envoy By Star Reporter Excerpt: “This country is heaven. This is heaven on earth. You are blessed with great weather. A vibrant private sector and well-skilled youthful workforce. But the government has been taken over by barons and cartels. Nothing moves unless the barons are part of it.” Runner-up: How graft, high cost of living could spark social implosion *** Congratulations to the writers for delivering such memorable pieces, and thank you to the readers who took time to comment on them. If you missed any, feel free to check it out now. The beauty of a good feature story is that it is timeless. Compiled by the Features Editor, whose works include ‘‘Handshake’ and Brexit through the prism of a wedding’ and ‘Chess coach Githinji Hinga’s endgame’