Kenyans wake up every morning, brace the traffic and recently, the rains, to get to work and run the rat race. Some want to switch off their alarms immediately they ring, asking themselves if they have go to work, but are quickly hit by the reality that bills won't pay themselves if they ditch work. A survey by talent recruitment agency-BrighterMonday - released in October showed that when it comes to flight risk, 47 per cent of people working in an organisation are likely to leave their current employer in the next six months. 41 per cent are not sure while 12 per cent don't want to leave. When it comes to happiness in the workplace, 39 per cent are happy with their current job, 50 per cent are neutral while 11 per cent are unhappy with their current job. When it comes to being valued for the work one does, 58 per cent said they are valued, 28 per cent said they do not feel valued while 14 per cent said they do not work. Job security, pay and proximity to work are the most important factors for the different job levels, a report by the firm says. But for some, their reluctance to go to work has little to do with the above factors, and more to do with  the environment. A toxic work environment can make going to work dreadful. Some people silently battle depression because of a toxic work environment. According to WHO, depression affects 300 million people worldwide. A few weeks ago, Classic 105's Maina and King'ang'i had a discussion on toxic work environments. Many of his listeners called and gave experiences with their supervisors and  managers. Many suffer in silence because they do not feel safe opening up to their supervisors. So what does a toxic environment look like? A toxic workplace can be described as a place or people who make it hard for an individual to work peacefully hence causing serious harm to someone. This can lead to depression and at times someone may contemplate suicide. The people you work with, from managers, supervisors to colleagues can make your workplace very toxic, which in turn affects your work and the targets set. Claudia has been working for an organisation for six years and in those years she says that she often goes home an angry woman. "I have been working for this organisation for 6 years and it has not been easy. Every morning I wake and wonder if it's a must for me to go to work because when I imagine I am going to work under the same roof with my manager, I feel sick," Claudia narrated. As we speak, you could hear her voice shake, filled with so much anger. She went on to describe how badly she is treated by her boss and the number of times she has thought about quitting. "Since I joined this organisation, I have worked under one supervisor and over the years I have seen how inhumane he is. He doesn't know how to address his juniors and constantly belittles us. It has been really tough working under him and since he is a boss, we are afraid of standing up for ourselves." "Personally I'm a quiet person and I rarely speak even when things are thick and this has greatly affected me health wise as I have to take painkillers because of endless migraines." When asked what measures she has taken to make things better she said, "Just as I've told you I don't talk much and I tend to bottle my emotions. I find myself crying when I get home because that's the only time I'm allowed to show my emotions. I would have quit by now but getting a job is quite hard and these streets are tough, so I always hope for a better tomorrow." Mandi, a former employee at a reputable media house, noted that when the management says things like "you can Google someone's job, then it means they do not care about your contribution to their company". She had been at the company for seven years, built the digital marketing capacity from scratch to an average of Sh2.4 million monthly income. "My qualification was trashed and belittled to mere administrative work . To quote my former manager,  'It is a matter of putting the right thing at the right place'. I was the group webmaster and programmatic lead running a solo department with no help or support from the organisation," she said. She says it was high time she moved because her work was not being appreciated. "Why continue working in a place that does not even appreciate your hard work? You will continue working in that toxic environment not knowing that you are literally harming yourself. Even if I don't get another job immediately, at least I'm not working in a place that makes me feel demotivated," Mandi added. A toxic environment does not choose whom to harm. Even though women are vocal and speak up when faced with problems, men also go through hardship at workplaces. Mwangi has been taking medicine because he suffers from ulcers. A common cause of ulcers is stress. "Anyone who has to deal with ulcers can tell you how painful it is. I started developing ulcers after I joined my workplace and it's all because of my supervisor. He is constantly talking to us rudely and this really affects us. There's a time I called him to let him know that I'm unwell and will be going to the hospital. He literally told me, 'You should have communicated earlier.' I mean, do you plan when to get sick because that is what he meant," Mwangi narrated. Clinical Psycologist Riziki Ahmed explained why people experience toxicity in their workplace. What does a toxic workplace do to someone? If it's toxic then it means not a good working environment so the stress levels are high, someone can have high anxiety levels How many people come to you in a day due to work stress? There are many people especially anxiety stress and depression and it can be work related especially when there's change of management or when there is anything that is new being implemented you find employees maybe don't understand what is happening or when there's restructuring and you don't know if you will lose your job. What brings about toxicity in a workplace? I think it's competition. At times everybody wants to step on another person to get to another level and also if you have the top management maybe they are people who listen to stories from other people like they are told stories about other people and they listen they shouldn't allow such kind of things so that there is no story telling. Also there's competition. I think there should be clear structures of if I come in at this level, this is how I will advance. If the structures are clear I think it can also reduce toxicity in the workplace and also having sessions maybe team building sessions. How does it affect someone's productivity? When you are stressed you'll get burn out and when you have burnout, your productivity definitely will be very low. So there's no way you are going to produce when you are having burnout because you don't feel like doing anything. You are feeling very tired, your alertness is very low so you will be able to produce to your level best, it won't be as good as it could have been and if the person has gone deeper into depression. Solutions Having clear structures in a workplace, having clear reporting mechanisms as to who reports to who and having regular meetings to discuss anything and when implementing any changes to make sure they take the staff through a lot of discussions on the same to understand exactly what the change is. Supervisors and managers are meant to guide their juniors and help them grow in their different fields. But most employees complain that their supervisors make it hard for them to be productive at work. The Star spoke to a supervisor (requested to be anonymous) who works for an organisation in Nairobi to give a view of what a supervisor is supposed to do and why many employees feel oppressed in their workplace. Why do you think some supervisors oppress their employees? I think those who do it draw their wrong motive from the notion that when you are a supervisor, you are superior. The fact is that as a supervisor, you are a leader and should avoid feeling or acting in a manner that makes those in your team feel inferior Do you think they do it willingly or unwillingly? I think for some, it is deliberate coming from the thinking that they must be harsh to gain respect from those they supervise. For others, it may just be an issue of communication or lack of it What drives a boss to make outrageous demands from an employee that leads to depression? If they are in a situation where they have outrageous demands from their seniors, they are likely to make the same to those they supervise What are some of the measures that companies need to put in place to avoid such? I think it is important to companies to invest in management training especially on issues related to emotions. Stress management is also a critical skill that managers need.