Children born in Kenya today will suffer more kidney and heart diseases from adolescence, compared to their parents. They will also fight more lung complications, a new report shows. The conditions, which could begin early from adolescence, will be triggered by increased air pollution caused by fossil fuels and climate change. "Through adolescence and beyond, air pollution damages the heart, lungs, and every other vital organ," says the report, produced by Uthiru-based International Livestock Research Institute. The Lancet Countdown on Health and Climate Change calls on the world to intervene to reduce pollution. It notes the consequences of heat exposure in humans include heat stress and heat stroke, acute kidney injury, exacerbation of congestive heart failure, and increased risk of interpersonal and collective violence. "In Kenya, and throughout Africa, the impacts of climate change on infants are already being felt and will continue to worsen as temperatures rise," the report says. Kenyan children will also face more vectors that spread diseases, which are almost under control today. For example, the ability of one type of mosquito to transmit dengue fever in Kenya has increased by 20 per cent since the 1950s as a result of climate change. "Climatic suitability for the transmission of malaria continues to increase in highland areas of sub-Saharan Africa such as Nairobi," the report says. Increasingly, children will remain vulnerable to malnutrition. The report says crop yield potential in Kenya will continue to reduce if the situation does not change. Since the 1960s, crop yield potential in Kenya has reduced by 6.4 per cent for maize, 1.5 per cent for winter wheat, 1.1 per cent for spring wheat and 15 per cent for rice. The report says the world must find ways to meet the Paris Agreement targets to limit warming to ‘well below’ 2 degrees Celsius. Rosemary Sang, a scientist at the Kenya Medical Research Institute who has closely studied climate-driven diseases endemic to Kenya, says the report shows the importance of including African perspectives in global surveys of climate change impacts. "Past and current economic activities in the West are likely to affect Africa’s future for decades to come," she said. "We cannot afford to wait on the sidelines for the right decisions to be made; we must lend our voices to those calling for urgent action now." Kenya signed the Paris Agreement in November 2016, the same month it came into force. President Donald Trump of the United States, the world's second-biggest polluter, has notified the United Nations that his country will withdraw from the treaty on November 4, 2020, throwing children under the bus. "With its high rates of healthcare inequality, poverty, and food insecurity, the health effects of climate change are going to be felt strongly across Africa," says Nick Watts, the executive director of The Lancet Countdown.