The Suzuki Swift has long been a favorite among motorists looking for a stylish and relatively sporty hatchback. It is stylish and attractive, replacing the previous generation’s cute and somewhat chunky appearance with an edgier, much sportier look. The all-new Swift is a sleek hatch with sweet handling and a decent, efficient powertrain that makes the most of its modest output. Here's what will make this car desirable for any car-loving Kenyan. The looks and style This car is beautiful. Its size makes it cute; the front bumper, rear bumper, and body lines make it look aggressive. The swept-back headlights with daytime running lights and the sloping roofline convey a sense of agility. The boxy taillights, clean side profile, and subtle character lines give off a minimalist vibe. Not too many hatchbacks pull off this look. It is 'sleek and sporty’ without relying on an overabundance of lines and edges to do so. The drive and fuel efficiency Under the hood, the fourth-generation Swift rocks a K12M four-cylinder 1.2L engine, capable of outputting a modest 82hp at 6000 rpm, and a torque of 113 Nm at 4,200 rpm. This is great for town driving and any car enthusiast would be forgiven for assuming that this car is underpowered based on spec-sheet figures alone. This car has a light chassis and is much more sprightly and faster off the line than its numbers might suggest. The nice throttle response and should definitely surprise anyone and the fuel efficiency is no slouch. This car maintains a very impressive claimed 4.9-litres/100 km fuel economy. The competitive price The Swift can competes against the likes of the Toyota Etios and Ford Figo. With its modern looks coupled with a weight saving of about 100 kg, the latest-generation Suzuki Swift has retainied its fun way of life nature. The overall quality ensures that the Swift remains one of the finest budget compact cars on the road. Radio Africa Group has partnered with Toyota Kenya for an unbeatable offer. For just sh.34,812/= per month, you can drive away with a brand new showroom car. This offer is accompanied by up to 95% financing, 1 Month Free Insurance, a full fuel tank and a cool sh.100,000 cash discount! This offer is available on https://kiss100.co.ke/kissmycar for the first 20 buyers on a first come, first serve basis. You can also arrange for viewing of the car on the website. Be the next owner of the all-new Suzuki Swift. The sleek hatch with sweet handling and a decent, efficient powertrain that makes the most of its modest output.