Clear pending bills and stop playing politics with SMEs, Interior CS Fred Matiang'i has told governors. Matiang'i said the government has already released the money to the counties to pay the bills. Speaking outside Harambee House on Wednesday after chairing the National Development Implementation and Communication Committee, the CS said some governors have refused to pay and have instead resorted to excuses. He said some governors don't want to pay the bills because they were incurred during their predecessors' tenure. The CS said the committee has resolved to recommend to the cabinet to employ all legal mechanisms to compel the governors to pay the bills. "It will be a requirement that county governments provide a monthly status report that will include an itemized list of all the bills paid. Going forward all county governments are advised that subsequent disbursement to county governments shall be based on the progress made in the settlement on the pending bills," Matiang'i said. Already 12 counties have cleared the bills. They are Elgeyo Marakwet, Homa Bay, Kajiado, Kericho, Kilifi, Kwale, Laikipia, Makueni, Nyamira Nyandarua, Nyeri Uasin Gishu and Baringo counties. Present at the press conference were CBK Governor Patrick Njoroge, the Controller of Budget Margaret Nyakango and several CSs. Last week, The National Treasury released a total of Sh11 billion to 18 counties. Acting Treasury CS Ukur Yatani in a circular said the 18 counties had presented clear and acceptable plans for the settlement of validated pending bills. Yatani said another Sh7.3 billion has been released to 12 counties which have fully paid their pending bills. Last month, the government issued a directive asking the county governments and State departments that had not cleared their pending bills to do so before November 30. All the affected counties and departments had been urged by Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua to indicate that they are willing to settle the matter by reporting to his office.