A Sh600 million sewerage system will be built in Ol Kalou town, Nyandarua county. Construction will start early next year on 20 acres at Mathathi area in Ol Kalou. It will be the biggest project in Nyandarua so far and will end the sewage disposal problem. It will also be Nyandarua's first sewerage system. The project will be implemented by the Rift Valley Water Works Development Agency working with the national and the county governments of Nyandarua. Rift Valley Water Works Development Agency chairman Asman Kamama said on Wednesday evening the agency is also working on expanding the supply of clean water in Nyandarua, among other projects. Kamama spoke in Ol Kalou where he led directors from the agency to tour Mathathi area where the system will be built. They inspected three of the nine boreholes drilled by the agency in Nyandarua so far. “We don’t expect challenges because we have involved the people in both the sewerage and borehole projects. We are working closely with the governor and the county commissioner," he said. Kamama said a compensation plan for the people who will be displaced is in place and an evaluation report on compensation has been prepared. Residents have been sufficiently briefed and no project will be initiated without their acceptance, he said. Agency CEO Engineer Hosea Wendot said the compensation will be based on market value and the agency will negotiate with the affected to agree on compensation. “Ol Kalou town is growing very fast and sanitation is a major issue that has been ignored for a long time. I want to tell the population sanitation is very important because if we are to achieve good health and a good environment, we have to manage our waste," he said. The contractor is about to be identified and he agency will work with other agencies on wayleave issues. Mathathi village elder Stephen Muchendu said about 15 households will be affected by the project and said the community has been briefed and is positive about it. “So far we have held five public participation forums," he said. Nyandarua executive for Water, Environment and Natural Resources  Milka Wanjiru also said as they build the sewerage system, they wukk also improve the water supply in Ol Kalou as the town is growing very fast. (Edited by V. Graham)    