It finally happened. Justice was served. After six years of grieving, anger at the judicial system and doubt that justice would ever be done, a Kiambu family can celebrate. Two men who bludgeoned a relative, Bernard Kirubi, to death were sentenced to life imprisonment on Wednesday by Kiambu High Court judge Christine Meoli. She convicted James Kipkania and Geoffrey Nyaundi, who have the right to appeal. The family held a party at their home to celebrate. They also had cause to rejoice because the long-drawn-out trial had prompted speculation in the community that one of the victim's brothers, Michael Mathenge Kirube, was involved. The court found that on the night of July 19-10, 2013, at Kagaa area in Kiambu, the two murdered Kirubi. They were charged jointly with others not before the court. Starting in 2013, Kirubi was doing business in Kayole area and had business dealings with the accused. In mid-2013, Kipkania had complained to Kirube's brother Michael Mathenge Krube that Bernard Kirube owed him money but had failed to pay. Mathenge, the prime witness, told the court he sent the accused Sh9,000 and business relations resumed. On the evening of July 19, Mathenge drove his brother Bernard from Kayole to Ruai for business at Thika with the two accused. Upon arrival, they all met at the Image Pub where they stayed until 1am. The victim informed his brother to stay at the pub and wait as he went with Kipkania and Nyaundi to do business. About two hours later, the two accused called Mathenge informing him that his brother had stolen Sh200,000 from them. They said they were holding him and intended to kill him and set his car on fire. Mathenge told the court that he tried unsuccessfully to negotiate with them. At about the same time the two accused called Bernard's neighbour Patrick Mburu and made the same claims. The victim's vehicle was found abandoned at a roadside a few kilometres from Kenol area by Flying Squad officers from Makuyu. On July 20, Bernard Kirube's body was found at Kabuki Farm. The cause of death was severe head injury secondary to blunt force trauma. In their testimony, the accused denied that they knew the victim. They said they had only gotten to know each other inside the police cells. During cross-examination, the court learnt the two knew were in constant communication through phone calls made back and forth. Phone logs of the accused and that of the victim showed the same location on the night of the murder. The court said it was satisfied that the accused lured the victim to his death. (Edited by V. Graham)