Food. One of the main things we need to survive. However, the same food can be a toxic recipe that sends one to the grave. From aflatoxin to sodium metabisulphite, 2019 was marked with several cases of toxic materials being put in food, causing harm to unsuspecting consumers. In July, NTV did an expose called 'Red Alert' in which it exposed supermarkets selling meat with high levels of sodium metabisulphite. Following the expose, the County Government of Nairobi closed six meat sections in major supermarkets within CBD and its environs. The crackdown saw the meat section of Tuskys Supermarket along Kenyatta Avenue shut down after samples indicated that the meat was unsafe for human consumption. The samples had 63,000 milligrammes of sodium metabisulphite (PSB) preservatives and additives. This is contrary to the required limit of a maximum of 5,000 milligrams per kilogram. Naivas also suspended the sale of red meat across all its stores countrywide pending the results of independent testing of its meat and assessment of its supplier base. Nairobi Health executive Mohammed Dagane, who lead the crackdown, said the county had constituted a task force to sample meat sections of 40 supermarkets in Nairobi. Dagane said six were found to have extremely high levels of preservatives. He said key officials from the six supermarkets would be taken to court to face charges of endangering human life. “We have shut down the meat sections of the stores after samples showed that they have extremely dangerous levels of preservatives. We are planning to arraign officials from these supermarkets in the court,” Dagane said. Many Kenyans didn't quite understand the dangerous preservatives used in the meat they consume. According to Wikipedia, sodium metabisulphite or sodium pyrosulphite is an inorganic compound  used as a disinfectant, antioxidant, and preservative agent. The substance is sometimes referred to as disodium metabisulfite. It is used as a preservative and antioxidant in food and it can be used to preserve colour of some fruits, such as bananas and in this case meat, hence the reason why the meat in the shelves always looked fresh and deep red. The country was also hit with more news of excessive amount of aflatoxin in the products consumed. In February, the government ordered all Nuteez peanut butter off the market after samples tested positive for dangerous levels of aflatoxin. Director of Public Health Dr Kepha Ombacho said the brand would only be restocked if it was cleared after more tests. In November, it was established that the level of aflatoxin in Dola, Kifaru, Starehe, 210 and Jembe maize flour had exceeded the amount allowed by the Kenya Bureau of Standards. Later on, the Kenya Bureau of Standards lifted the suspension of Dola and Kifaru maize flour as well as Nuteez and Zesta peanut butter. KEBS said the firms had carried out corrective measures. The bureau inspectors conducted inspections to review and determine the effectiveness of the controls put in place by the companies, that were to ensure that their future products meet requirements. Some Kenyans had faulted state agencies for failing to regulate the process by which maize moves from the farmers to the millers and ends up on kitchen cupboards. So why is aflatoxin harmful for human consumption? Aflatoxins are poisonous carcinogens that are produced by certain molds which grow in soil, decaying vegetation, hay, and grains, according to Wikipedia. They are regularly found in improperly stored staple commodities such as cassava, chili peppers, maize or corn, cottonseed, millet, peanuts among other foods. When contaminated food is processed, aflatoxins enter the general food supply where they have been found in both pet and human foods, as well as in feed stocks for agricultural animals.