How's did Kenya perform in wildlife conservation in 2019? The results were mixed. Kenya made international headlines in July for the botched transfer of 10 black rhinos that died after they were transferred from Nairobi National Park to Tsavo East National Park.  They died from drinking very salty water in their new home. One survivor was injured by a lion. Tourism Minister Najib Balal blamed the deaths on negligence and poor communication among government officials, bad planning to say the least. Between 2005 and 2017, the Kenyan wildlife ministry has transported 149 rhinos with only eight deaths. And iconic Nairobi National Park — in the centre of increasing urban development — is now home not only to lions and other wildlife but also to the standard gauge railway which runs on elevated tracks above a section of park. In December a lion strayed from the park and mauled a man. However, there's good news. The African elephant is now more protected than ever before. This follows the lobbying spearheaded by Kenya and like-minded countries at Geneva in August Balala said he was satisfied with the progress. "We now want to implement the African Elephant Action Plan and need support to the African Elephant Fund for Kenya and other African countries," Balala said. The CS spoke at the Kenya Wildlife Service headquarters' ivory burning site, addressing the outcome of the conference on the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES). The conference responds to the extinction crisis by strengthening international trade regime for wildlife. CITES is an international agreement with 183 parties, including Kenya. Around 25,000 plant species and 5,000 animal species are covered by the convention. A joint proposal by  Botswana, Namibia and Zimbabwe, backed by South Africa to trade in their ivory stockpiles was voted down by 81 per cent. "This in effect means the international trade ban in ivory continues to remain in place," Balala said. Nine species were given increased protection from international trade through listing in Appendix I. Species listed in Appendix I are threatened by extinction and as such, trade in specimens of these species is permitted only in exceptional circumstances. Those in Appendix II include species not necessarily threatened with extinction, but whose trade must be controlled for their survival. Balala called for enhanced control of trade in elephant ivory and rhino horns and closure of ivory and rhino horn markets, and better management of the horn stockpiles. Kenya's proposal to list giraffes as needing protection was passed and the animals are now listed in Appendix II. They have declined by 36-40 per cent over the past three decades due to habitat loss and other pressures. They are killed for bushmeat, body parts and hides for the domestic and international markets. The conference established the CITES Big Cat Task Force with a mandate to improve enforcement, tackle illegal trade and promote collaboration on conserving tigers, lions, cheetahs, jaguars and leopards. The critical role of local and indigenous communities that live on the front lines of wildlife conservation and sustainable management was widely recognised. “Humanity needs to respond to the growing extinction crisis by transforming the way we manage the world’s wild animals and plants. Business, as usual, is no longer an option,” CITES secretary general Ivonne Higuero said. (Edited by V. Graham) 