Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua has dismissed Wiper Leader Kalonzo Musyoka and former Senator Johnstone Muthama claiming the two do not speak on behalf of the Kamba community. Mutua took aim at Kalonzo saying he was incapable of securing the vote of Kenyans to be the next President and can only be a supporter of another person. This comes after recent remarks by the Wiper leader who said he will follow the 2022 political direction given by President Uhuru Kenyatta. The governor also took a swipe at Muthama whom he claimed had been 'busy waging the Kamba community to Deputy President William Ruto so that the Kamba voters become just supporters of others. Mutua who spoke on Thursday in Machakos County insisted the Kamba nation is not for wager to the highest bidder. "These two leaders do not speak for the Kamba community but for themselves and their own personal interests," he said. The county boss said the Kambas were tired of just being used as supporters of others to Statehouse. "We are ready to be supported to Statehouse by other leaders and communities," he said. However, Mutua praised the three Ukambani governors for their leadership and said he was ready to work with them in his quest to become Kenya's fifth president. "I am ready to work with many like-minded leaders with energy and clear purpose to change the plight of our country and who have shown they care more about our people than their own selfish ends," Mutua said. "These leaders, include Governors Charity Ngilu and Kivutha Kibwana and Honourables Charles Kilonzo, Mutula Kilonzo Jr., Patrick Musimba, David Musila among many many other focused men and women leaders from our region." Mutua went further to accuse Kalonzo and Muthama of misleading the Kambas to advance the agendas of Uhuru and Ruto respectively. " I am ready to lead the Kamba community to Statehouse whereas Hon. Kalonzo wants us to add on to a Uhuru 2022 strategy and Hon. Muthama wants to con us towards a Ruto 2022 strategy," he said. His sentiments came just hours after Muthama declared himself the Ukambani region political kingpin. Muthama faulted Kalonzo for misleading the Kamba community after he announced his undying support to Uhuru beyond 2022. The former Senator had recently said that DP Ruto is best suited to succeed Uhuru, accused Kalonzo of auctioning the region for his own political ambitions.