City residents will continue to experience water rationing despite the heavy rains that have wreaked havoc across the country. Nairobi Water and Sewerage Company on Tuesday said the rationing under equitable  programme in the city will continue despite the fact that Thika, Ruiru, and Sasumua dams are all full to capacity, which is a first since 2016. "We would like to inform the public that despite the dams being full, the equitable distribution programme for supplying water is in place," the company said in a statement to newsrooms. "This is necessitated by the fact that the total installation production capacity of all the city water treatment plants and distribution pipeline is 524,600m3 per day against a total demand of 790,000m3 per day- which grows by 20,000m3 per day." The company said the huge daily demand leaves a supply deficit of over 263,500m3 per day. "To address this deficit, the company in collaboration with other state organs is currently developing new water sources infrastructure to reduce the supply deficit," the statement read. This, the company said, includes the Northern Collector tunnel project (phase 1) which will be commissioned by December 2020 and is expected to bring an additional 140,000m3. Other long-term plans include the design and development of additional dams: Karemenu dam, Maragwa 4 dam and Ruirui II dam. It had been reported that water rationing in Nairobi might become a major water crisis unless several corrective measures are urgently undertaken. These measures include fixing and maintenance of the crumbling water infrastructure, re-usage of water and preservation of rivers and catchment areas. As of August,  Ndakaini Dam, the city's main water supplier, was 45 per cent full. This is 31 million cubic metres of water, according to the Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company. Head of corporate affairs Mbaruku Vyakweli earlier said due to the prevailing  season, the rationing programme will be maintained as it has been. Vyakweli, however, dismissed fears that the rationing is likely to be heavy. He said there is no cause for alarm.