Water and Sanitation CS Simon Chelugui has urged agencies under his docket to ensure Kenya attains universal water supply. Speaking at Crowne Plaza when he launched the Water Sector Trust Fund on Thursday, the Cabinet Secretary said the government is keen to reach its target of 80 per cent water coverage nationally in three years. “Several interventions are being put in place so that we increase supply of clean and safe water to our people and therefore I challenge all the water agencies to focus their energies in that direction,” he said. "Water coverage in Kenya increased from 60 to 62.9% over the last three years and still falls short of the vision 2030 targets and the Ministerial Strategic Plan. The strategic Plan targets to achieve water coverage of 80% by 2022," he added. Chelugui said his docket is crucial in facilitating the attainment of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s legacy projects- the Big Four Agenda. “Water is a major component in the Big Four Agenda and that is why the government has rolled out several programmes such as dams in several parts of the country ,” he said. He lauded the Water Trust Fund for leading the way in implementing  the requirements of the Water Act 2016. Chelugui said from January, he will ensure that all Sector institutions conform to the Act. “I laud the Water Sector Trust Fund for the great strides already taken into its new mandate and functions. These include the Strategic Plan 2018-2022, a new Communication Strategy with a new Corporate Brand,” he said. The new agency was previously known as Water Services Trust Fund and its mandate has been expended to include financing support to all aspects of the sector including research. “The Act also provides for innovative and sustainable approaches , which the Fund will develop and adapt to ensure vibrant and efficient business models to the sector,” he said. He added: “These approaches include subsidiary funds and water levy charged on consumption of piped water to be paid to the fund.” On his part, Water Fund CEO Ismail Shaiye said with the effective transition , his agency can now support key development projects across the counties. He said there is need for the water agencies to find an amicable working model with the counties. “ Our work is cut out now and I assure all the stallholders that we will work together to realise our objectives. We will partner with the counties in the journey,” he said.