 A plan to establish a drug and food authority to regulate the safety of medicines and foodstuff was dealt a blow on Friday after stakeholders opposed the idea. The rejection followed a meeting of stakeholders from both the ministry of Health and that of Agriculture where it was decided that regulation of food and drugs be separated. The two ministries were in the process of creating the Kenya Food and Drug Authority, a move the Pharmaceuticals Society of Kenya had opposed. The ministries have now agreed that each comes up with their own regulatory authority instead of having a single one to regulate both food and drugs. PSK had expressed fears the new agency will not cater for the needs of the market and does not have the interest of health professionals at heart. “We held a meeting on Friday and it was agreed that food and drugs have to go separate ways. This will ensure that the regulation of the two is done in a more systematic approach without bringing confusion,” Fresh Produce Consortium CEO Ojepat Okisegere told the Star on Wednesday. The new agency was to replace the Pharmacies and Poisons Board and license food products. KFDA was also to be tasked with the control of food and medicines as part of regional efforts to curb counterfeits and boost pharmaceutical manufacturing. But PSK’s president Loius Machogu said PPB's mandate be expanded and strengthened, rather than lumping food and medicines under one regulator. The authority was also expected to tighten entry rules for food and medicinal products amid reports that up to 30 per cent of drugs in circulation are counterfeit. “The whole process of the law is to protect the public. We can’t have a law that pretends to protect everything because it loses focus,” PSK chairman Dominic Karanja said. “Challenges of coming up with the authority would be immense. It will be deadly because quality will be compromised in the amalgamation.” Karanja despite Kenya having good policies, it is still classified by the World Health Organisation as having a weak regulatory framework for medicines and health products. The authority was also supposed to provide scientific advice and technical support to the both the national and county governments in matters of framing the policy and rules in areas that have a bearing on food safety and nutrition.  edited by p.o