The Exports Processing Zones Authority is aggressively partnering with counties to set up more processing zones to create new investments and more jobs. Nandi and Kitui counties are among the first counties where new export processing zones have been gazetted and chairman of the EPZA Paul Gicheru says they expanding to other regions. He estimates new investments will create more than 50,000 new jobs in at least seven counties.. In Nandi, Choimim Tea Factory has been gazetted as an EPZ firm. A new Sh343 million factory will be built to produce Black CTC Tea for export. It will create hundreds of new obs. The firm has been granted an EPZ developer licence for the zone on about three hectares registered at Title Number Nandi/ Chepkunyuk/1508. Cabinet Secretary for Industry and Trade Peter Munya has approved the new investments. Kitui county EPZ Limited has been granted an Enterprise and Manufacturing License as Developer Operator. Land registered as Kyangwithya/Katheka 174 and 994 Syongila market has been gazetted for development of an EPZ. Investors will spend more than Sh227 in the Kitui zones where developers will set up an internal Export Trading Plant for an apparel factory. “This project will enhance the EPZ presence in Kitui, improve livelihoods of residents and also create jobs,” Gicheru said. He said the project conforms to the Big Four agenda concerning manufacturing. The Kitui project will use more than Sh67 million raw materials annually and will export more than 80 per cent of its products to the US. It will create about 360 jobs. EPZA is also working with Vihiga, Kakamega, Homa Bay, Kwale and Elgeyo Marakwet to establish new EPZs attracting local and foreign investors who will also create more jobs for youth. New projects valued at more than Sh2 billion will be set up in the counties that are working with the EPZA. “Most of the governors are very positive about investments to spur economic growth," Gicheru said. Nandi Governor Stephen Sang says they are working with the EPZA and other partners to create more opportunities in critical sectors like agriculture. “We are focussing on value addition for our farmers and other cottage industries that will create jobs for our graduates and skilled youth,” he said. (Edited by V. Graham)