A politician from Rift Valley has become the talk of his village after he abandoned his wife for a much younger woman. The philanthropic politician is ironically an absentee dad. His jobless wife is said to be struggling to educate the children and put food on the table. Our moles told Corridors that the politician is said to have asked the wife to resign from a well-paying job promising to take care of all her financial needs. A legislator from Kiambu County is lamenting that some politicians contribute to harambees just to impress their higher-ranking counterparts. The lawmaker said these politicians will never be at a funds-drive for a good cause, but just to win the admiration of their seniors. The lawmaker told Corridors some of these leaders attended last Sunday’s harambee at St Francis of Assisi Catholic parish in Ruiru constituency. He said soon after President Uhuru Kenyatta donated Sh3 million and left for another function, these politicians disappeared without leaving a single cent for the church. The President had excused himself saying he was going to receive some State guests and asked the rest to remain behind to continue with the funds-drive. Who put chemicals into a pond situated in the office of Director Fisheries in a County in Western?All fish in the pond died as a result of the chemicals. None of the officials in the department of Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries is wiling to talk about the incident, begging the question, what do the officials know that members of public don't know? Word has it that an audit was being conducted to determine if the number of fish in the pond were equivalent to the sum of money that was quoted to have been used in purchasing fingerlings. An MP from Nairobi is on the spot among his colleagues for appearing to have a soft spot for their opponents. The MP, who was a harsh critic of the rival team when he was being elected, now wines and dines with his one-time enemies to the displeasure of his party colleagues. One legislator however whispered to Corridors that they rescued the ‘prodigal’ MP from a financial crisis, which is the reason for the sudden change of tune. He said the MP has to toe the line.