Blood brothers  Thomas Walgwe and Victor Walgwe will be vying for  SOYA’s 'School Coach of the Year ' award after they were both nominated in the category. The siblings have competed for most of their lives and will once again take their rivalry to the annual Safaricom Sports Personality of the Year Awards gala scheduled for January 24 in Mombasa. Thomas guided Upper Hill rugby Sevens side to their maiden national title, beating the then defending champions Laiser Hill before crowning their enviable season with the East Africa title. On the other hand, Victor-led Dagoretti High School rugby 15’s team to winning the Nairobi Region title and finished second at the national and East Africa Games. Dagoretti High School’s coach Joseph Makokha, who coached their football team to a silver medal at the national games, is the second nominee from the school. The tactician guided his side to the semi-finals of the EA Games before finishing fourth. Another nominee for the coveted award is Kwanthanze Girls’ volleyball tactician, Justin Kigwari, who guided his team to a double; winning both the national and regional titles. This was the team’s fifth East Africa Games trophy and third in succession. Kakamega High School’s rugby 15’s coach Amos Wamanga also made the cut after guiding the side to reclaim the national title they had last won in 2017 (8th title). Under his tutelage, Kakamega High also recaptured the East Africa Games 15’s title they’d last won in 2016. After being deployed to Mbooni Boys from St. Luke’s Kimilili, handball coach Gerald Juma helped the team win silver medal at the national finals, which earned his side their maiden ticket to the regional Games. Others in the 20-man list are Kepha Nyaundi, who led St. Joseph’s Kirandich to their maiden national title in girls’ handball. Julius Otieno, who helped Buruburu Girls’ basketball team end their 18-year trophy drought by winning the national title before finishing fourth at the East Africa Games, is also in the mix. Cheptil Girls’ volleyball coach coach  Stephen Mutai is also among the nominees. Cheptil finished second at both national and regional championships. 