Posta Rangers have been handed a boost ahead of tomorrow's Kenyan Premier League encounter against defending champions Gor Mahia following the return of Joseph Mbugi, Charles Odette and Dinken Mwema. The three missed the previous match, a 3-3 draw against Kariobangi Sharks, and coach Sammy 'Pamzo' Omolo believes they will help seal the loopholes witnessed in defence. The duo of Mwema and Odette missed the Sharks duel through suspension while Mbugi was nursing an injury, suffered in their 5-1 humiliation in the hands of KCB three weeks ago. The match is set for Narok Stadium where Gor, who are without their head coach Steven Polack, will open a three-point gap at the top should they down the hosts who are winless in their last three outings. In the absence of Polack, who has travelled home in England for the festivities, assistant Patrick Odhiambo will take charge — hoping to extend the club's rich vein, which has seen the club stay at the summit on 28 points with three matches in hand. However, his bid will be severely put to test by Pamzo, who has warned them to expect a tough match. "I am elated to have the three players available for selection after missing the match against Sharks, where we used a makeshift defence. With Odette and Mwema now available, I believe the loopholes will be sealed. It's going to be a tough match but I expect my boys to give a good account of themselves," said Pamzo. Meanwhile, Nzoia Sugar coach Collins Omondi has regretted the injuries bedevilling his side ahead of their match against Mathare United at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani. Omondi revealed that more than seven players will miss the match due to injuries but exuded confidence in registering his third win of the season. "Our preparations for the match have been slowed down by injuries. We will have to make do without almost 10 players but nonetheless, the fit ones are raring to go. I can't wait for the January transfer window to beef the squad," said Omondi. While Nzoia will be seeking their third win of the season, Mathare will be out to redeem themselves following a disappointing 3-0 loss to AFC Leopards last weekend.