Work is something that we daily spend hours doing, therefore, it is important to gain an empowering perspective to find meaning. Many professionals are caught up in an inner battle, wondering if what they do matters – they are not fulfilled. Modern culture pushes us to constantly acquire skills, consequently, we get one skill and then the next. The world is full of skillful professionals who have not found meaning at work. Could it be that they do not yet understand the essence of skills? Yes, skills pay the bills, but there is more to it. The essence of skills is serving people. Skills are vehicles for the expression of your purpose. They are not just ways to pay bills, but they serve a higher purpose. They are tools designed to help you empower the purpose of others as you fulfill yours. Service is the reason for skills and fulfillment is the result. When you are driven by service, these three things occur. Right Attitude: When you understand that service is the essence of skills, it changes your perspective and approach to work. This change in perspective helps you see that your skills are not about you. Skills are designed for you to help people. This view gives you the right attitude towards work. Your skills empower you to solve problems for people. If this paradigm is embraced, it would change customer service as we know it because it embeds the service consciousness in professionals. With this insight, people show up to work ready to give their best. Sustained Mastery: The joy of serving people produces a drive to gain and sustain mastery. The desire to serve people well would keep you on a constant search of skills that would sharpen your service delivery. This drive would put you on the path of continuous improvement. You seek to be great at what you do and to keep it that way. You know your craft and you make plans to keep getting better. Sustained mastery means that you build an effective system to constantly move from one level of skills mastery to another over time. Excellent Delivery: To succeed in business, excellence is not negotiable. People gravitate towards businesses that give them excellent service. This thinking that people deserve excellence drives experts to develop the skills that would ensure excellent delivery. Furthermore, they create systems that help them deploy their skills excellently. Delivering excellent service is proof that you truly understand the essence of skills. Merry Christmas. Email: smpamugo@gmail.com