A County Commissioner in the North Rift is an unhappy person. A source tells Corridors the man allegedly received a call from his seniors reading him the riot act, asking him who permitted him to attend Deputy President William Ruto’s meeting recently. Those close to him were heard saying the man is so depressed that he regrets attending the function because he didn't know it was a crime to attend the Deputy President's functions. Word has it that the administrators now want Harambee House to send them a circular prohibiting them from attending such functions. The recent transfer of a county commissioner in the Central region has worsened their worry. A senior official in the ministry of Health who has questionable wealth is on the spot again. The man is said to have blatantly refused transfer to a new ministry. He is said to enjoy the protection of powerful suppliers to the ministry. Sources said the man was involved in the controversial Managed Medical Equipment Scheme (MES) tender. Those in the know say the man has amassed wealth over a short period of time and has moved from his regular house to a palatial home. Perhaps EACC should institute a lifestyle audit on the individual. A senior official at a Nyanza county assembly is angry after his brother lost Sh700,000 — believed to be graft proceeds that he had stashed in his car. The man’s brother had made several trips from a bank where they were withdrawing less than Sh1 million so as not to arouse suspicion. On the fateful trip, the man’s brother parked the car at a popular eatery in town for a meal of fish and ugali, only to come back and find the rear door broken into. On checking, the money was gone but the man and his brother are uneasy about reporting the matter to the police. Their fear is that the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) may come calling. On Monday, we told you of a governor who was quietly sacking ghost workers to avert scrutiny by anti-corruption agencies. Now, a county secretary who was at the centre of the massive irregular recruitment of more than 1,000 workers in the county public service and who happens to be the governor’s in-law, has since been moved to a key department. A fly on the wall tells Corridors that the move could be an orchestrated plan by the governor to further loot the virtually dry public coffers. The department that the man is heading is already flooded with more than 250 ghost workers.