Wajir Governor Mohamed Abdi has pleaded with MCAs to fast track the approval of the supplementary budget. “My government is soon tabling a supplementary budget to fill in and harmonise the resource gap and would like to urge the Hon members to empathise with the situation of our people and fast track the approval of the budget that is already with the assembly,” he said on Monday. Speaking in Wajir town, Abdi said his government had prioritised initiatives to restore critical infrastructure services. The county was one of those hardest hit by the recent floods, leading to deaths, damage to critical infrastructure including roads, bridges, health facilities and educational institutions. At least eight people lost their lives across the county. The worst-hit areas were Wajir North, Eldas, Giriftu, Sarman, Duntow, Dambas, Gunana, Qarsa and Khorof Harar. An assessment that was recently carried out also showed that boreholes, water pans and crops were not spared. He, however, appealed to the national government to move with speed and compliment the county’s effort of repairing roads to alleviate the suffering of residents. “We have time and again appealed to the national government ministries, departments and agencies to rehabilitate critical infrastructure that does not fall within our mandate like roads," the county boss said. "All we are doing as a county is to assist. We can only do much because of the limited resources we have at our disposal.” Abdi further disclosed that his administration has entered into an MoU with the World Food Programme (WFP) and the Kenya Red Cross Society to support the county on sustainable food systems, and emergency response. This, he said, will go a long way in complementing the county’s efforts in attaining food security and addressing health emergencies. “We appreciate the collective efforts of all partners in supporting us achieve an improved and sustained welfare of our residents. I recognise the World Bank as a major reliable development partner in all the major sectors, especially food security, roads, health and urban development," Abdi said. He said his administration will create an enabling environment for these partnerships to work effectively and deliver sustained benefits for residents. 