 Fisherfolks in Nyatike, Migori county, have abandoned their boats and fishing nets to venture into rice farming. The farmers say they are making ten times what they made from fishing in Lake Victoria. Nyatike subcounty is predominantly a fish farming area due to its proximity to the shores of Lake Victoria within the Lower Kuja River Basin. Michael Ogonya, 27, has been a fish farmer for seven years. On a good day, fishing brought him Sh1,000 in income. He says he could sometimes go without a catch. Last year, Ogonya venturing into rice farming in his three-acre land at the Lower Kuja Irrigation Scheme. “I could not believe it after I made Sh150,000 after only four months from selling rice paddy. When I was a fisherman, it would take me one year to afford money to buy a cow worth Sh30,000. But with rice farming, I can do that within four to six months,” an elated Ogonya said. Ogonya said he was increasing his acreage to 10 to make more money. He wants to buy another dairy cow and build a three-bedroom stone house. Samson Okeyo, chairman of the Lower Kuja Irrigation Scheme, said rice farming was a breath of fresh air for the fishermen who were used to harsh fishing conditions is Lake Victoria's often turbulent waters. “Making money from fishing was not a guarantee. This coupled with harassment of fishermen by Ugandan policemen due to the Kenya-Uganda dispute over Migingo Island worsened their situation. The fishermen often returned home empty-handed. But rice farming offers them a source of income,” Okeyo said. He said most of the fisherfolks made between Sh200 to Sh500 in a day. With rice farming, one can get about 25 (90kg) bags of paddy rice, equivalent to Sh150,000 with a bag selling at Sh6,000. Okeyo said farming has changed people's lives and the income per capita has increased. Families have become food secure. “This has also created jobs because to produce rice in one acre, one needs at least four to five casual labourers, with each getting paid Sh400 per day,” Jacinta Okoth said. The farmers are now appealing for more market, saying middlemen from Uganda were exploiting them. The traders pay Sh60 for a kilo of the Basmati variety and Sh33 of the IR variety. Nesline Ogwe, the National Irrigation Board's manager for the Lower Kuja Irrigation Scheme said the project dates back to the 1980s. She said the intake infrastructure was done in 2012. “The scheme started cropping rice in August 2018, and it is now gaining momentum as farmers are convinced that they can make money from this venture,” Ogwe said. According to studies carried out by the Lake Basin Development Authority, the area has the potential of putting 84,000 hectares under rice with the use of water from Kuja and Migori rivers. She said the planned development was for a net irrigable area of 7,717 hectares at a cost of Sh4 billion. The overall cost for carrying out the development of the Lower Kuja Irrigation infrastructure was estimated to cost Sh4 billion. Ogwe said the overall cost per hectare is Sh524, 469 which is within the normal range for developing similar projects. She said the area has a potential of 19,000 acres but currently only 1,000 acres are under rice production. “The project has benefited 200 farmers but we are targeting at least 4,000 farmers and we will open up 3,500 acres to accommodate more,” Ogwe said. The ongoing rains have destroyed farms, including seed nurseries. “More than 1,000 bags of paddy which farmers had stored in their houses were swept away two weeks ago following heavy rains. Rice in the farms and seed nurseries have been suffocated by too much water while others have been swept away,” Ogwe said. The Meteorological department has predicted heavy downpour of 100 mm in Nyanza region and its environs. Ogwe said the total damage to crops and the infrastructures is Sh24 million and that the NIB will look into ways of compensating farmers and rehabilitating the infrastructure once the rains have subsided.  edited by peter obuya