The growing middle class in Kenya is increasingly opting for junk foods on speed dial for convince, accelerating the growth of food delivery expected to rise 50 per cent next year. Jumia Food Index released yesterday showed that chicken, pizza and burger top the foods ordered by residents in middle income estates in Nairobi, Mombasa and Nakuru. According to the report, Nairobi's Kilimani, Kileleshwa and Ngong Road led in number of delivery orders while residents of Nyali, City Mall and Mamba Village ordered the most in Mombasa. In Nakuru, people residing in middle income areas of CBD, Milimani and Naka ordered. Speaking while unveiling the report, Jumia Food managing director for East Africa, Shreenal Ruparelia said middle incomers who spend most of their time on professional duties and studies prefer food on go than cooking at home. Middle income earners with high sending power are looking for convenience. Decreasing cost of delivery and availability of cheaper food alternatives is their motivation,'' Ruparelia said. The report further showed that although dinner has for the past seven years been the most requested delivery in the country, requests have started to decline while that of lunch and breakfast on rise. According to the report, dinner delivery requests dropped to 54.2 per cent from 56.6 per cent last year while that of lunch and breakfast rose to 41.1 and 4.6 per cent respectively from 39.4 and four per cent last year. According to the report, delivery order patterns illustrates a typical day life of a youthful city dweller. They have a lot going on in the morning and afternoon. They have started to get sometime to cook at night. International food brands dominated places where urban dwellers order their foods from, with KFC, Java House, Debonaires, Big Square, Subway, Artcaffe and Mugg and Beans leading. Others are Ohcha and Connect Coffee. Naivas was the only local retailer on the list. Kuku Foods East Africa chief operations officer Jacques Theunissen said convenience is the biggest determinant in the food delivery in Kenya. “ I believe that the biggest change has been the increased need for convenience with consumers. Consumers are starting to value convenience more and more. They are willing to spend a little bit extra to save time and effort,'' Theunissen said. He said he expects the Kenyan market to continue out pacing her regional peers due to high Internet connectivity. He estimated Kenya's food and beverage market to be currently at Sh830-850 billion in value. 