As Kenya intensifies preparations for next year’s World Under-20 Championships, Keringet Athletics Camp are keen to extend their mantle as the conveyor belt of future world beaters. The camp, started in 1996 is currently home to 49 athletes, who started training on November 18. Camp coordinator David Bii observed that the current crop of athletes have the potential to follow in the footsteps of some of the country’s top stars, present and past. “These athletes have the potential to become top stars, just like those before them,” said Bii. “In fact, we already have some athletes who have already represented the country at the international level and we hope they will continue with these good displays on home soil next year.” Africa junior 1500m silver medallist Ednah Jebitok, 3,000m champion Zena Chemutai, 1,500m bronze medallist Maureen Cherotich, 5,000m silver medallist Deborah Chemutai and 3,000m bronze medallist are among those expected to easily make Team Kenya to next year’s championships. In the boys’ category, the likes of Benson Sigei (5,000m), Michael Kibon (400m), Nehemiah Kimutai (5,000m), Dennis Kirui (3,000m) and Stephen Masindet (800m) are among the country’s top prospects. “Training has been perfect,” said Jebitok clutching her hands on a cold Tuesday evening. “We have had a good time here as we seek to represent Kenya at the World U-18.” “This place is very cold at times but the determination we have has kept us going,” added the lanky teenager, who is due to join secondary school next year. “I missed the World Under 17 Championships by a whisker but that is history now. My aim is to represent the country on home soil and going by the preparations we are having, I feel I will realise my dream,” added Zena.  Keringet has had a reputation of churning out some of the country’s top athletics stars including Olympic and world 1,500m champion Faith Chepngetich, national cross country champion Amos Kirui, former world marathon champion Geoffrey Kirui, world 800m bronze medallist Ferguson Rotich, steeplechaser Caroline Tuigong, Isaiah Kiplangat, Josphat Bett, Mercy Chebwogen, Rosefline Chepngetich, Wycliff Kinyamal, Ronald Kirui and Alfred Ng’eno among others.  And to ensure they live up to their billing, Bii is working with a team of four officials including team manager Joseph Misoi, coaches Charles Ng’eno, Charles Ngao and chaperone Jackline Cheburet. During Tuesday’s visit, Athletics Kenya youth development programme chairman Barnaba Korir emphasised on the need for the young athletes to embrace education just as they have athletics. “You must not forget to put efforts in your education, even as you continue to train hard,” said Korir. “Education will open up your thinking now and in the future. Nobody can take advantage of you if you are educated.”