Kenya's ward reps have the knack of fighting of power and engaging in leadership wrangles across their respective county assemblies across the country. Year in year out, MCAs have exposed to Kenyans the truth about how they go about their businesses in and out of the assemblies by fighting each other. This year, it was not any different for the Nairobi County Assembly which engaged in chaos over its speaker Beatrice Elachi. On October 29th, there was drama as rival city MCAs clashed over an impeachment motion of Speaker Beatrice Elachi. Chaos broke shortly after MCAs supporting the new impeachment motion were disrupted by their counterparts while addressing the media. At some point, stones and water bottles were hurled at a section of the Jubilee MCAs forcing them to cut short their press conference. Last year, ODM leader Raila Odinga said the Constitution should be changed to improve the conduct of members of county assemblies and boost services to the people. Speaking in Homa Bay, Raila said county assemblies had become "theatres of the absurd". "There is something going on in the counties that are so annoying. This is a bad sign for the country. Why cause such fracas? It is all about the money. Serve Kenyans instead and stop the fracas." But what exactly is ailing the county assembly? THE AGE FACTOR Most of the MCAs who are in the assembly are still young and not married, former Mugumoini MCA Alex Otieno tells the Star. "As young people, you want to get rich all over sudden. These young people do know how things work in the assembly. Some are elected before even getting wives and husbands," he said. Otieno said that people who are young tend to leak information which leads to some of these fights. "The fights don't just start from nowhere, when we are discussing confidential matters at the assembly, these young people will leak the information to the person being discussed. This breeds enmity," he said. FAVORITISM Otieno says that speakers, clerks and other officials normally favour some MCAs. "You will find that the speaker or even the clerk allows some MCAs to go for foreign trips more than twice while others have never even stepped on the planes," he said. This he says needs to be dealt with for it is an underlying problem that leads to the fights. Former Kahawa West MCA Ngaruiya Chege says this vice is common in the assemblies. "You either become loyal to the governor or you ship out. And that is when you start becoming enemies and friends and start fighting each other," he said. MONEY ELEMENT "Some MCAs want to do business with the county assembly but when they are told to do it the right way, they feel bad," he says. Otieno says that this has been the cause of some disagreements within the assemblies. "When the Clerk tells you that you can do that business, you feel like he or she is preventing you from prosperity. From there you get bitter with the clerk," he says. LACK OF EXPERIENCE The former MCAs notes that some of the people who are nominated have never had any experience in dealing with issues. "You get that these people are nominated by the youths that they lead in their areas. So they go there without an iota of idea on how the assembly is being run," he said. Otieno says that in most cases, these youths do not know the channels to follow when something happens. "They feel like they are the final people with the final say. So they start feeling sweet and cannot be told anything," he said. BUREAUCRACY ON PROCUREMENT The Former Kahawa West MCA tells the Star that a lot of bureaucracy takes place in the assemblies. "This is something that we were grappling with during the tenure of Evans Kidero who was the former governor," he said. Chege said that MCAs depend a lot on the governor which makes issues more complicated. "As an MCA, you are always begging for your people. You see the governor sugar coats issues while MCAs are the people on the ground. So these type of begging breeds hatred and with time MCAs explode," he said. QUALITY DEBATES Chege said that most MCAs do not have content when they go to debate on issues at the assembly. "Some of these people that we elect can represent Kenyans in the assembly. Sometimes a person stands up to talk but whatever they are saying does not even make sense," he said. "These are joyriders who want to go to Mombasa and enjoy and pass time rather than working for Kenyans." SOLUTION! But what exactly is the way forward for county assemblies to stop all these madness and instead serve Kenyans. "The threshold of MCAs should be put a notch higher so that we have professionals in these assemblies," Chege said. People on the ground should know who they are electing and ensure that they are people who can fight for their rights. Otieno said that the MCAs should be people who have integrity and know when somebody is inciting them.