 Biashara Sacco is planning to a feeding programme for primary schools near its branches as part of the institution’s corporate social responsibility. Sacco chairman Joseph Njamuku on Wednesday said the financial institution will also feed students in day secondary schools who cannot afford to pay for their lunch. The sacco currently has 10 branches in five counties. It also has other satellite branches. Njamuku said a pilot feeding programme at DEB Primary School in Nyeri town has been successful after running it several years. The sacco has been providing porridge to learners at the school. Njamuku said the move will be replicated in several other schools from next year. “We want to introduce the programme in all schools near our branches,” he said. He said interested schools should apply to the sacco to ensure many learners are covered. He said the programme has improved class attendance at DEB. Most students at the school come from slums in Nyeri town. Njamuku said schools intending to benefit from the programme should be prepared to buy cooking pots and employ cooks while the Sacco will supply unga, firewood and other ingredients. “We appreciate that the government has been paying tuition fees for day secondary students but some are still unable to go to school due to lack of money to pay for their lunch. We shall chip in and help them,” Njamuku said. “We shall partner with day secondary schools and ensure we provide them with lunch so they remain in school throughout the term. I'm sure these will also lessen the burden for their parents and enable them provide other necessities.” Njamuku said they had launched a sacco agency banking to take its services closer to the people. The service will enable those in rural areas to transact business without going to the banking halls, he said. Njamuku spoke during a thanksgiving ceremony for the sacco at New Life Church in Nyeri town. The event was presided over by Bishop Paul Wanjohi. The sacco donated foodstuff and other items worth Sh800,000 to 14 institutions including children's homes and needy families. About 1,000 people were to benefit from the donation.  edited by p.o