Eleven-time Kenyan Premier League champions Tusker came from a goal down to beat Kariobangi Sharks 3-1 and move to within a point of leaders Gor Mahia. After the match at Kasarani yesterday, veteran Tusker coach Robert Matano attributed the win to the second half substitutes particularly that of former Most Valuable Player George 'Blackberry' Odhiambo and fast-rising Erick Zakayo. The duo he reckoned helped mount the spirited come back. The league winning coach was full of praises for Zakayo, who was promoted from the youth side, for his superb display which was capped by a sublime assist for the third goal. "We did not play well in the first half and had to make changes on our attacking flanks in the final stanza. The changes paid dividends and I am happy with Zakayo for showing class. There was a reason as to why we promoted him from our youth side. It is his time as he can play football when he is young," said Matano. The two teams had to make changes to their starting line ups thanks to the players who left with Harambee Stars for the Cecafa Senior Challenge. Sharks were missing the services of Samuel Olwande and Daniel Sakari with coach William Muluya bringing  in Tom Teka to partner with Michael Bodo at the heart of the defense. Geoffrey Lemu was tasked to man the right back in absence of Sakari. Tusker, on the other hand, had to summon Sydney Ochieng to fill in the void left by Timothy Otieno who is also with Stars. Sharks shot-stopper Brian Bwire who was picked ahead of the first choice John Oyemba put a brave show between the sticks to deny Tusker forwards in the first half. The U-20 regional best goalkeeper was forced into action severally where he thwarted an attempt by Ochieng in a one on one situation and further parried to safety a ferocious shot by David Majak in the early minutes of the game. There were no signs of Sharks taking the lead until a counterattack launched by Patillah Omoto in the 37th minute found an unmarked James Mazembe who fired into the hands of Robert Mboya. The left foot shot proved too hot to handle for Mboya who punched the ball into the way of Kevintom Machika where the youngster planted the ball into an empty net. The goal separated the two sides until halftime but the brewers came back with vigor and levelled matters through 'Blackberry' who pulled the trigger in the 69th minute. Stars trialist Luke Namanda who was unfortunate not to break to the team which left for Uganda scored a brace to put the result beyond Sharks' reach. Muluya criticised his players for what he termed as lack of character as the loss plunged them deeper into the relegation zone as they have won one this season. "We lacked a bit of character as we conceded twice in the final 20 minutes which is unfortunate," he rued. Elsewhere Bandari put off their poor run resoundingly, thumping Wazito 4-1 at the Mbaraki Stadium. Shaban Kenga's brace inspired the porters to their second win of the season with Yema Mwama and an own goal from Dan Owino completing the rout. Former U-23 utility player Siraj Mohammed put the ball into his own net hand the league returnees the consolation.