 Youths from a village in Tseikuru, Kitui county, could be secretly getting recruited into terrorism, residents have warned. An alarm has been raised that youths from Kaningo location are being lured into extremist groups through silent radicalisation that is orchestrated by Islamic adherents based in nearby Tana River county. Most of those targeted are jobless and from poor backgrounds, local politician Geoffrey Munuve said on Monday. Munuve raised the alarm after he posted on Facebook about questionable activities by people he said were asking locals to join Islam. He said Islamic sympathisers have set base in Mboka Wells in Tana River from where they frequently visit Kaningo trading centre to scout for recruits. Targets are often enticed with money and other favours to join Islam. Tseikuru deputy county commissioner Anne Mitema has directed local DCI officials to probe the matter after Munuve's post was widely circulated on WhatsApp groups in Kitui. Mitema is also said to have called a subcounty security meeting following the claims with sources saying the youth recruitment issue elaborately deliberated. Efforts to reach Mitema for comment were unsuccessful as calls to her phone went unanswered. It is believed the Mboka Wells group as al Shabaab sympathisers looking for more Kenyans youths to join the ranks of the Somalia-based militant group. “At Kaningo, Tseikuru, Kitui county,  I have noticed something peculiar. On Wednesday during the market day we share with Somalis, our boys are being recruited to join al Shabaab. Before they leave to Mboka, a small town bordering us they are given Sh20,000," Munuve wrote on Facebook. “When I talked to one of them they said they have changed religion to Islam and that they were studying the Qoran. The fellow I talked to was recruited early so he comes with the Somalis to recruit more. We are losing our children to al Shabaab. If you read this advice on what we can do.” Tseikuru council of elders chairman Daniel Kyambo said it was important that authorities took the matter seriously and establish the motive behind those enticing families with Sh70,000 to released their children to be recruited into a secret Islamic group. “Whenever the recruits are released by their families after the cash payouts, they are said to be taken to Mombasa, hundreds of kilometers away, for Islamic teaching,” Kyambo told the Star on the phone on Wednesday. He said it was common knowledge that Kaningo youth were being recruited into Islam but the secretive way it was being done and the amount of money involved pointed to an ulterior motive. "That is why the government must investigate what is going on,” he said.  edited by p. obuya