Nairobi County Assembly stands divided following the court's decision to bar Governor Mike Sonko from office. County Assembly Speaker Beatrice Elachi on Wednesday adjourned the House until next year in February as per the calendar. In her communication, Elachi said that house will adjourn awaiting advisory from the Attorney General and the relevant bodies on the matter. "This situation is unique hence it is important that we wait for the way forward the assembly will proceed for recess as we wait for a special sitting Pursuant to the provision of Standing Order No.30 should the need arise," she said. ODM MCAs Led by Minority Leader David Mberia condemned her decision stating that it has left the county more devastated. The ward reps walked out of the chambers in solidarity after Elachi gave her communication,  leaving the Jubilee side to proceed with the plenary. The ODM MCAs wanted a three-day extension in order for the respective parties to give a way forward on the leadership crisis facing the county. Earlier in the day the court barred, the governor from accessing his office, commenting on the case on any social media platform and was granted a Sh15 million cash bail. As a result, Minority Leader Mberia had written a  letter to the Speaker before the plenary in the afternoon requesting the House Business Committee (HBC) to deliberate on the extension matter. The HBC was heated where members from the two sides could not come to an understanding causing delay of the plenary session for more than one hour. Mberia said it was prudent for Speaker Elachi to at least extend the house sittings so that the legislatures can try to find a solution to the leadership crisis of the county. "We have been overruled by the speaker and Jubilee members because to them they do not see a crisis but as ODM  we see the crisis," Mberia said. 'We have a constitutional crisis now that the governor has been barred from accessing the office. The county's accounts have been frozen and as the second arm of the government we need to show leadership and seek a solution on the way forward," he added. The ODM MCAs said they will move to the Supreme Court for interpretation on the next action after the absence of both the governor and his deputy. Deputy Minority Whip Moses Ogeto said they will be requesting for a special sitting any time. "As guided by the Standing Order we will seek for a special sitting because at the moment Nairobi is no properly structured in terms of county government issues," he said . Jubilee's failure Minority Chief Whip Peter Imwatok blamed the Jubilee party for failing to push for the nomination of a deputy governor. "Jubilee as a whole slept on its job for nominating a deputy governor and we should not blame Sonko alone," he said. He further claimed that the Jubilee side of the house is on autopilot still having scuffles among themselves and questioned their capability of giving solutions on the county leadership. "On our side, we are ready to contribute in any way to save the county but Jubilee are afraid of critical thinking," he said. Impeachment talks The ODM MCAs rubbished the claims of bringing an impeachment motion saying it was neither here nor there. However, the Minority leader said they will not hesitate to bring a motion if their party leader directs so. "As it stands Raila has not yet communicated to us on the way forward but whatever Raila directs we will act accordingly without questioning. If he directs to being an impeachment motion we shall do so, we are not afraid of anything, " Mberia said. The Assembly will resume its sittings next year in February as per the calendar.