One person died on the spot and another injured critically after a motorcycle crashed head-on with a matatu in Ol Kalou on Wednesday evening. The victims could not immediately be identified since they did not have any documents on them. They were, however, suspected to come from Gilgil. The accident happened about a hundred metres from the Nyandarua county commissioner’s offices on the Nyahururu-Gilgil road. John Macharia, the matatu driver, said he was headed to Nyahururu from Nairobi with the vehicle full to capacity. He said after the crash, one motorbike occupant died on the spot, while the other was rushed to JM Memorial Hospital in critical condition before being referred to Nakuru Provincial General Hospital. Macharia said only one woman in the matatu, who sat in the driver’s cabin, got her hand injured by split glasses. James Mwangi, a passenger, corroborated Macharia’s statement. Witnesses said the motorcycle was speeding towards Gilgil from Ol Kalou, then lost control after it hit a car headed in the same direction and crashed head-on with a matatu belonging to Nuclear Sacco. The Toyota Allion had slowed down to avoid a pothole. JM Memorial Hospital medical superintendent Dr Joram Muraya said the victim sustained serious head injuries hence was immediately referred to Nakuru PGH as he required High Dependency Unit (HDU) services. The body of the deceased was moved to JM Memoria. hospital mortuary awaiting identification. Following the 5.30pm accident, Ol Kalou bodaboda operators blocked the busy highway at the scene of the accident, causing a heavy traffic snarl-up that stretched for over three kilometres. Efforts by Ol Kalou OCS Moses Munywoki to have them open the road fell on deaf ears as they demanded to be addressed by Nyandarua county commissioner Boaz Cherutich, as President Uhuru Kenyatta’s representative on the ground. ”We know we are inconveniencing people but we have to do it for our plight as the road users to be known. We want to know if the county commissioner has forwarded our concerns about this road to the President," they said. The county commissioner was not available to address them. They agreed to open the road after one hour, vowing to return another day to continue with the protest.