Credit cards have become an essential life tool. They can be used to make purchases you don't have the cash for and you could be better off paying for your utilities with your credit card. Here are some reasons why you should take up a credit card this festive season Protect your money If or when you lose your wallet, chances are you will never see that money again. However, if you lose your credit card (provided you were careful and weren’t swinging it around and screaming your pin number), you won’t lose money. You also won't be liable for money spent on it after you lost it. Just be sure to report the loss quickly and always be careful with your pin. Sometimes, it’s the only way to pay Some companies will still insist on a credit card when taking payment, for example when you make hotel reservations or rent a car. This is because with a credit card they get greater assurance that they can recoup any additional costs you run up. Easy to use abroad Savvy travellers carry plastic. The convenience of travelling with your credit card in order to use it abroad remains underrated. Some cards offer incentives. Case in point, Standard Chartered Visa Infinite Cards which gives double reward points for using cards abroad. These points can be redeemed for flights and accommodation anywhere in the world. Choosing the right Card In order to save hundreds or maybe thousands, you only need to find out which card suits you. Among the recommended considerations is acquiring a card that offers you the lowest interest rates and flexible terms of payment. For example, a card that you can use to make payments on shopping worth sh.20,000/= and then spread the payments over 6 or 12 months. Other things you should consider is insurance in the event of card loss, security, ability to use the card overseas, incentives such as cash-back rewards and privilege discounts. Fortunately, we did our homework and found that the Standard Chartered Visa Credit Cards fit the bill entirely. These cards offer the best rates in the market at only 1.08% per month. The Easy Payment Plan which is a feature of these cards allows the owner to spread payments over 6 to 12 months. Discounts and incentives Moreover, we found that the Standard Chartered Visa Credit cards carry the most incentives in the market. The VISA infinite credit card which is designed with Kenyans in mind features a stellar collection of privileges that are suitable. This includes a complimentary round of golf every month at a leading golf club in Kenya, unlimited complimentary access to 900+ airport lounges worldwide, bonus earnings, rewards for every time you use the Credit Card to pay for fuel and dining bills (5% cashback rewards) There are also over 35 amazing discount offers that you get when you sign up for a Standard Chartered Card and the portal (https://www.sc.com/ke/credit-cards/) makes it easy. Sign up for one that suits your needs today and enjoy the benefits of using Kenya's most preferred credit card this festive season. 