Homa Bay traders on Wednesday lost property worth about Sh30 million to a fire that took too long to contain. The disaster management team was blamed for a slow response to the fire which started around 1.30am at Garage Road. The team reached the scene three hours later after the blaze had destroyed eight cars, four shops, three hardware stores and a residential block. By the time the team arrived residents had been able to reduce the intensity of the fire. Traders who were affected said they could not reach the emergency response team to salvage their property. They said the county government does not have a proper communication channel to be reached during a disaster. Garage proprietors Vincent Alila and Judith Auma said they lost more than Sh25 million worth of property including two cars and spare parts. “It’s hard to recover the losses since my insurance cover had expired and I hadn’t renewed it. It’s a great loss to me and family,” Alila said. They appealed for help from well-wishers. “The business was the only source of my livelihood and family members. It would be prudent if I get financial assistance,” Auma said. Area Chief Joshua Ochogo said they had not established the cause of the fire. He praised residents for working together to prevent the fire from spreading to other shops and cause more damage. “The fire began in one room and spread to other areas. We’ve reported to police for investigations,” Ochogo said. The Star has established that a team of firefighters could not respond faster because they are on a go-slow. Some of the workers who sought anonymity said the county government has failed to pay them salaries for four months. “We took a break from work due to accrued salaries. We agreed to return fire engines to departmental offices until our grievances are addressed,” a firefighter said. However, the county disaster management director Eliud Onyango said they are working to come up with a hotline number that residents can use to reach them during emergencies. Onyango said they are still depending on the police emergency lines and appealed to residents to call them during emergencies. He urged locals to work closely with them and report emergencies immediately for faster response. “Some people report emergencies late. But we need residents to get in touch with security officials as soon as possible for quick response,” he said. Onyango said they are conducting an assessment to establish the extent of damage before they assist the affected traders.