Defending champions Gor Mahia returned to the summit of the Kenyan Premier League after humiliating debutants Kisumu All Stars 3-0 at the Moi Stadium, Kisumu. It was Gor’s first match in the month after the recently concluded Cecafa Senior Challenge had seen their matches shelved to allow four of their players to don the Harambee Stars shirt. Despite travelling without Francis Afriyie and Gislein Yikpe, Gor who have three matches in hand easily condemned All Stars to their 10th loss of the season. In the absence of two goal poachers, coach Steven Polack summoned Nicholas Kipkirui to hunt for goals and the former Zoo Kericho man did not disappoint as he broke the deadlock in the second half. Kenneth Muguna and Bernard Ondiek scored the second and third goal to see their side rise to the top of the log with 28 points, thanks to their healthier goal difference than that of Tusker who have a similar tally. Kipkirui said the goal, which was his second for the season, will inspire him to regain his scoring form which had dwindled after falling third in the pecking order. “It was important for me to score after finding it tough to break into the starting team in the past two months. The coach believed in me and luckily, I repaid his faith and I am hoping to build on the motivation gained to revive my form,” he said. Kipkirui’s performance earned him praises from assistant coach Patrick Odhiambo who noted that the absence of Afriyie and Yikpe was not felt. “He played well and we are happy to have scaled to the top of the table. We go back to the drawing board to prepare for Rangers next weekend,” he added. AFC Leopards returned to their winning ways after clawing Mathare United 3-0 at the Mumias Sports Complex. Consequently, Ingwe who had shared spoils in their last three matches against Tusker, KCB and Nzoia Sugar rose to seventh with 22 points. Harambee Stars’ forward Vincent Oburu netted twice with John Makwata scoring the third to edge Mathare who handed Lenox Ogutu and Francis Omondi their first starts of the season. Ogutu was summoned to replace Andrew Juma who returned from the Cecafa tournament unwell while Omondi got the starting berth in place of the suspended Roy Okal. Elsewhere, after clinching the Cecafa Golden Boot, Oscar Wamalwa continued with his scoring prowess as his brace inspired Ulinzi Stars to a comfortable 4-0 win over Zoo Kericho. The match played at the Afraha Stadium saw the soldiers stretch their unbeaten run to 11 matches as well as consolidated their sixth place on the log with 25 points. Enosh Ochieng and national U-20 Rising Stars attacking midfielder John Njuguna added on Wamalwa’s brace to complete the rout for Ulinzi.