New hope has shone for squatters in Taita Taveta county as the state gears towards issuing title deeds to landless residents. The processing of title deeds in most parts of the county is in final stages, Lands Chief Administration Secretary Gideon Mng'aro has revealed. Speaking during a meeting with lands officials in Mwatate, Mng’aro said title deeds for the highly contested Ndara A and Taveta AFC village are already out and awaiting issuance by the President. “A number of title deeds will soon be issued. This is one of our commitments to ensure we end landlessness. We have discussed the progress of some of the land allocation and settlement projects,” the CAS said. He said other settlements like Kishushe A, Mwachabo and Godoma are in various stages and their title deeds shall be issued early next year. “Kishushe A project is 90 per cent complete. So far, 300 objections have been filed by residents and the ministry is working on them. Mwachabo Phase II is 80 per cent complete and their ownership documents will be out soon,” Mng’aro added. Land executive Mwandawiro Mghanga said the ministry and the department are collaboratively working towards ending landlessness the county. The executive warned unscrupulous land officials whom he claimed are delaying land adjudication in most of the disputed areas. He called for the involvement of residents in the adjudication process in a bid to bring sanity, transparency and accountability. Kishushe residents had raised an alarm over alleged irregularities in the whole adjudication of the Kishushe land in fear their land would fall in the hands of cartels. Mwandawiro said the government is targeting completing survey and demarcation of Singila Majengo and issuance of title deeds by March next year. Further, he revealed that the Maungu and Miasenyi settlement areas will be surveyed and title deeds issued by June. The county government has been facilitating the logistics and allowances for the technical officers after Governor Granton Samboja committed to assisting the ministry in its operations. Edited by R.Wamochie