Isiolo politicians have demanded that a Gazette Notice that declared the county as an adjudication area be revoked. The notice sets the stage for the sub-division of land. They want Lands CS Farida Karoney to annul the Legal Notice 150 issued by her office in August. Senator Fatuma Dulo and her group claim the notice will cause residents to lose their communal land as the same will be converted into private property. They called for the suspension of any survey and asked county commissioner Joseph Kanyiri not to be sucked into the region's politics. The land in Isiolo has been a trust land utilized communally by the people, a situation they prefer to be maintained. Further, the community says it was in the process of registering their land – way before the Legal Notice, as trust land held by the county government. Isiolo Senator Fatuma Dulo and MPs Rehema Jaldesa (Woman Rep), Abshiro Halake (Nominated Senator), Hassan Hulufo (Isiolo North), Abdi Tepo (Isiolo South), and Deputy Governor Abdi Issa addressed the press on the concerns. They raised fears that the process would be hijacked by unscrupulous bureaucrats to grab community land. “The notice purports to create a parallel and conflicting process on the same land that is being registered by the county,” they told reporters. An alarm is that there could be more trouble with the existing boundary disputes – at times causing violent clashes, between the county and its neighbours Meru and Garissa. “Where the proposed adjudication is conducted prior to the disputes being resolved, the same may further escalate the boundary disputes,” the leaders said. Citing no public participation, the leaders further laid claim to Isiolo Holding Grounds, land claimed by Kenya Defence Forces School of Infantry and Combat Engineering, and sections earmarked for the Lapsset corridor. The Lands ministry earlier indicated that the notice would be amended to specify the settlement areas where the legal notice would be applicable. CS Karoney said this but maintained that the survey would continue, a position the Isiolo leaders say exposes locals to possible loss of land. For the holding grounds, their take is that the land was not utilized for the purpose for which it was compulsorily acquired for public use, hence was reverted to communal land. In the case of the land occupied by the KDF School of Infantry, the leaders say the same is disputed and the matter before the National Land Commission, the Senate, and High Court. “Pending the determination of this dispute, the High Court has directed that all parties maintain the status quo.” They further cried foul that those whose lands were compulsorily acquired for Lapsset and Isiolo Resort City are yet to be compensated. “Our concern is that this notice has opened up nearly all community land to adjudication and titling. It interferes with the county government’s efforts to properly plan towns and market centres,” Dulo said. “We therefore demand that the notice be revoked until there is proper and effective public participation conducted at all levels right from the grassroots,” the leaders said. They want the county government to exercise its mandate of being the legal custodian of the community land by upholding the community’s interests. The lawmakers maintained that until the issues are addressed, the land in question remains communal and will be used by the communities it currently serves.