Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu's tribulations are far from over after Kiambu MCAs slated the debate on his impeachment motion for Wednesday next week. This communication was made by Majority leader Gideon Gachara (Ndeiya) after the House Business committee discussed the schedule ahead of their recess on December 19. Two impeachment motions are pending in the assembly, one targeting Deputy Governor James Nyoro. The MCAs want the motions discussed on separate dates. The date for the debate on the Nyoro one will be communicated before the MCAs go into recess. "There is also a motion for the impeachment of the deputy governor but as far as the assembly is concerned, the motion has no merit and has yet to reach the threshold required to be discussed in the House. But the impeachment motion of Waititu will be discussed,” Gachara said. Waititu and his wife Susan Wangari have denied six counts of graft involving Sh588 million irregular tender award. A court stopped Waititu from accessing county offices or conducting any business on behalf of the county until his case is heard and determined. He has unsuccessfully tried to reverse the order, hence making the appeal, which will be determined on December 20. The MCAs said that graft should not be condoned and those found guilty or culpable should carry their own crosses. The motion against Waititu was to be discussed on Tuesday but Gachara said that in law, Waititu ought to be given a chance to be heard by the assembly and residents given a chance to give their views on the matter. “We must adhere to the law and give the public time to give their views according to the County Government Act,” Gachara said. Last month, Okoa Kiambu, a lobby, collected signatures compelling the assembly to initiate a motion to impeach Waititu. They collected more than 200,000 signatures as required by law to kickstart the process. The county has 1.2 million registered voters. The motion was moved by Ndenderu's Solomon Kinuthia and will be seconded by Kahawa Wendani's Cyrus Omondi. Kinuthia said they gathered enough information and evidence supporting the allegations against the governor and have a watertight case backed by more than 60 of the county's 92 MCAs. “We have the numbers in the assembly to have Waititu impeached as per the will of Kiambu residents. We are well equipped for the motion to sail through even in the Senate,” he said. The MCA said they have given Waititu time to appear before the assembly to explain himself. Residents have also been given time to give their input, he said.