Kariobangi Sharks stretched their win-less run to nine matches after surrendering a 3-1 lead with seven minutes on the clock to settle for a 3-3 draw yesterday at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani. The relegation battling Sharks were headed for their second win of the season but Rangers dramatically scored twice in the final ten minutes of the game to deny them. The draw proved hard to take for Sharks’ winger and brace hero James Mazembe who broke into tears on the technical bench after the centre referee blew the final whistle as his teammates walked heads down to the tunnel. Sydney Lokale put Sharks ahead in the 25th minute after playing a one-two move with Harrison Mwendwa in the box, where the latter shot past an exposed Jairus Adira. Rangers levelled matters three minutes to the breather through Francis Nambute who dribbled past his marker to put the ball past an advancing Brian Bwire. Sharks regained the lead in the 58th minute through a counterattack which saw Mazembe put the ball into the net. The former Kakamega Homeboyz product completed his brace in the 75th minute firing from close range to establish a two goal cushion. However, Rangers forward Bill Oporia netted in the 83rd minute after Eliud Lokuwam had picked him with a pin point cross to breath life back into their hopes of staging a comeback. Nambute broke Sharks hearts, tapping the ball into the net at death to draw Rangers level. Rangers coach Sammy ‘Pamzo’ Omolo lauded his charges for exhibiting fighting spirit and covering for the unvailable centre half duo of Charles Odette and Dinken Mwema who were suspended for the match. “I am pleased with the point and the fighting spirit of the boys. We did not give up even when we were 3-1 down. We missed two important defenders but those summoned for duty did well despite their inexperience in defending’” In other matches played, Tusker played AFC Leopards to a barren draw at the Kenyatta Stadium, Machakos while KCB returned to their winning ways after beating Wazito 2-1at the same venue. The bankers netted through Enock Agwanda and Simon Munala while veteran defender Llyod Wahome scored Wazito’s consolation. Kakamega Homeboyz battled Ulinzi Stars to a two-all draw at the Afraha Stadium, Nakuru. Enosh Ochieng and John Kago were on target for the soldiers while Steven Wakanya and Peter Thiong’o replied for Homeboyz. Western Stima extended their fine run after electrocuting Nzoia Sugar 3-1 at the Sudi Stadium.Benson Omalla registered a brace with Villa Oromchan scoring the third to reduce Collins Wakhungu’s goal to a mere consolation. 