The Director of Public Prosecutions has taken his war with Samburu Governor Moses Lenolkulal back to court, seeking to cancel his bail terms. The DPP accused the embattled governor of failing to obey the court order that barred him from accessing office. Yesterday, Lenolkulal reshuffled his CECs through a gazette notice, but the DPP argues that this is against the orders of the court. Through State Counsel Wesley Nyamache, the DPP argues that Lenolkulal is in contempt of court and the court should punish him for disobeying court orders. “Lenolkulal has more than once purported to reshuffle and or re-assign officers of the Samburu County Executive Committee vide Gazette Notice No. 3634 of Kenya Gazette Vol. CXXI – No. 47 dated 18th April 2019 and Gazette Notice No. 11265 of Kenya Gazette Vol. CXXI – No. 163 dated 29th November 2019,” DPP claims. “Apart from the monetary bail conditions, this Honorable Court made interim orders barring the 1st Accused/ Respondent from accessing the Samburu County Offices, and the Director of the Integrated Financial Management and Information System (IFMIS) to bar the Respondent and his co-accused persons from accessing the Government of Samburu Accounts on the IFMIS Platform which interim orders were neither vacated nor reversed by the High Court,” reads court documents. The DPP says that the governor’s repeated acts of reshuffling and re-assigning officers of the Samburu County Executive Committee amounts to interference with witnesses, contrary to the clear terms of bail barring him access to the Samburu County offices and interfering with witnesses. Nyamache argues that the purported reshuffle and or re-assignment of officers of the Samburu County Executive Committee by Lenolkulal, if not stopped, will lead to interference with the crime scene and prospective witnesses. “If his bail is not cancelled and this court allows him to continue behaving in the manner he has so far conducted himself, it shall only embolden other persons charged with similar offences and the authority and dignity of this court will be greatly undermined,” the DPP argues.