Sheila Masinde has been appointed acting executive director at Transparency International following the resignation of Samuel Kimeu. According to a statement by the chairperson Board of Directors Bernadette Musundi, Kimeu had tendered his resignation letter effective January 2020. "The Board of Directors of Transparency International Kenya has accepted the resignation of the Executive Director Samuel Kimeu with effect from January 2020,' Musundi said in the statement to newsrooms. According to him, Kimeu is proceeding to another appointment from the said period after serving at the helm for over nine years. Masinde will be serving in an acting capacity until the position is substantively filled. She has previously been serving TI-Kenya as programmes manager since 2015 after she was promoted from the position of Research and learning manager from 2014. Masinde first worked for TI-Kenya between 2009 and 2012 as the advocacy and Communications Officer before being appointed as the Training and communications manager at BBC Media action between 2012 and 2014. "She has 16 years work experience in governance, programme management, media, advocacy and communications having also worked at Nation Media group and I choose Life Africa," read part of the statement. She has been part of TI-Kenya's senior management team since 2015, directly responsible for the overall management of programmes, strategic planning and development, reporting to donors and stakeholders. "As such the board has confidence that she has the experience to steer the organisation in the transition period," Musundi said. Meanwhile, Kimeu during his tenure is said to have worked for hand in hand with senior management and staff to steer TI-Kenya's strategic direction leading to institutional growth and stability. "He leaves behind a qualified, committed and capable team that will continue to develop cutting edge programmes and initiatives to deliver TI-Kenya's vision of a corruption-free Kenya," Musundi said. Kimeu will, however, continue to serve the TI movement in his capacity as a member of the TI International Board of Directors a position he was elected to in 2017 until his term ends in November 2020. "The board appreciates his contribution to TI-Kenya and wishes him success in his future undertakings," he said.