The war of words between Deputy President William Ruto and ODM leader Raila Odinga is not taking a rest just before crossing over to the new year. On Sunday night, Ruto launched a fresh attack on Raila accusing him of using the BBI for political 'conmanship'. The DP hit back at the former Prime Minister over calls to have his wealth probed. "Baba (Raila), so you are saying this whole handshake/BBI was petty personality schemes," Ruto posted on his Twitter account. Raila Odinga on Friday  launched a scathing attack on Ruto whose source of wealth he said was suspiciously too much. He said that Ruto should step aside and allow investigations on how he can afford to contribute to churches and host huge delegations now and then in his Sugoi home. Ruto responded through  twitter where he said him (Raila) was okay with him when he was supporting him but now wants him investigated. "Supporting others I was good/clean boy;"mweupeee kama pamba". Now the same WSR should be investigated," read part of the tweet. Raila and Ruto had joined forces after the failed 2005 referendum and went ahead to form ODM. They however fell out during the Grand Coalition Government with Raila, then PM, kicking Ruto, who was then Agriculture Minister, out of the Cabinet. Ruto was charged at the ICC over the 2007 post-election violence which erupted after ODM claimed that Raila had been rigged out of the presidency. On Sunday, Ruto told Raila that time for con leadership is over and asked the opposition leader to be truthful. He added, "Space/time for such deceit/conmanship is over; we are wiser. Be leaders. Be truthful. Wacha utapeli". In what seemed as  an open attack to the DP, Raila told Citizen TV in an interview that there was need to investigate people who have been contributing large sums of money to churches. "You have a situation where individuals are moving around with sacks full of money every Sunday looking for harambees to go and donate," Raila said. He added, "We need to hold the bull by its horn, which individual can be having that kind of money to dispense? Having delegations at your place every now and again,  paying for their transport and giving them kiinua mgongo, it is the impunity of the highest order," Raila said. However, Ruto who has maintained that he will continue to contribute to churches despite criticism from other people. Raila however said that though he has joined up forces with Uhuru on fighting corruption, this does not mean that anyone is fighting Ruto. “I don’t even fight him myself… I talk about vices and if talking about the vices makes me the devil incarnate in Jubilee then I don’t mind, I have been talking about these issues even before the handshake and I won’t change my character just because of the handshake,” Raila said.