Individualised coaching will help Kenya harness their their immense talent and take chess to the next level, Ugandan coach Faruk Kizza has observed. Kizza, whose team won the Africa Zone 4.4 Youth Under 16 Championships on Tuesday at The Luke Hotel in Nairobi, said at the development level, players need individual training as opposed to group coaching which is the case in Kenya. “Growth and development for age group players will be more effective when the training is personalised. If it is done in group, then it becomes more commercial than development. Individualised coaching will take Kenya places,” noted the Ugandan 2016 chess Olympian. “You can have 20 players under your watch but without individualised coaching, you can’t do much,” Kizza underscored. Uganda players—Sharif Ssenabilya, Victor Kanyike, Maria Nakanyike, Mathew Mwase and reserve Janice Namiiro are bracing up for the 2020 Chess Olympiad in Romania following their regional victory “My players start well in the opening rounds and become complacent in later stages and this almost cost us the title. The team just underrated Tanzania and we were punished. Our last game against South Sudan was the most uncertain and we had to employ a strategy,” said Kizza. Uganda’s unbeaten run was, however, dented by a 3-1 loss to Tanzania in round six on Tuesday morning. Sharif Ssenabulya went down to Agwaral Shreesh, Victor Kanyike fell to Shedrack Lusako, Maria Nakanyike was beaten by Hassuji Taher but Mathew Mwase defeated his Tanzanian pair Chheda Prisha. Stormy Knights’ win in round seven against the Tritonite Stars was not enough for the Kenya to lift the trophy. Coach Joseph Methu said: “The competition was tight but I am glad it went to the wire. We lost it by collecting a draw and a loss while Uganda had one loss.” In their game six, Stormy Knights hammered Nacha Sports Academy 3.5-0.5. Robert Mcligeyo beat Maliki Mwangi, Krish Shah defeated Vivian Muthoni, Viraj Bhaveshu, edged Quinton Njogu as Nikita Ameetkumarshared spoils with Odongo Lwanga.