The county government of Machakos has rolled out measures to improve tourism. The ministry of tourism on Wednesday launched the Machakos county tourism circuit aimed at growing business. Speaking during the launch of the circuit, deputy governor Francis Maliti said tourism is one of the fastest growing income generating sectors in the county. He said the county government was investing heavily in infrastructure to improve accessibility to the various unique tourist attraction sites. They include Lukenya Hills, the Macmillan Castle, Kyamwilu anti-gravity site, Wamunyu art carvings, the Komarock shrine and the Fourteen Falls. "I urge all tourism stakeholders to closely work with the county government for the benefits of us all. As the county government we are committed to creating an enabling tourism environment for all local and new tourists from abroad", he said. Maliti said Machakos county's relatively undisturbed tourism resource base appeals to a new breed of travelers yearning for a fresh travel experience. "The locals' warmth, colourfulness and trusting nature evident at first interaction gives a home away from home appeal to visitors," he said. Machawood CEO who is also the county Tourism chief officer Victor Muniafu said Machakos has a rich culture and heritage which blends seamlessly to give the locals a distinct identity. He said the Machakos people's park is a favorite choice for events across the country because of its perfect location, security and amenities notably the open air amphitheater. Muniafu said Machakos is a land of mystery and exciting adventures especially for tourism. "The hilly terrain is perfect for biking, hiking and sightseeing", he said. Muniafu, the county has many scenic views that would wow visitors traversing the area. "Machawood, the Machakos version of Hollywood, will guide in identification of ideal filming locations and nurturing talents in the entertainment industry," he said. The circuit will open doors to Machakos locals to venture into tourism and create more job opportunities. Wood crafts workers and other artists will be educated through capacity building workshops to help the tourism sector and make money from their work. Muniafu said the sector will create market centres where residents can sell and showcase their products along the busy Mombasa- Nairobi highway. Machakos hoteliers led by Emily Singunyi urged the county government to reduce taxes to make their services affordable.