The Kenya Wildlife Service closed the Amboseli National Park airstrip following the ongoing heavy downpour. The service said in a statement on Thursday that the airstrip was closed for safety reasons. "We wish to inform park users and the general public that due to the prevailing heavy rains, we have closed the airstrip in Amboseli National Park with effect from today December 12, 2019, for safety reasons," the statement reads. The statement was signed by acting head of communication Ngugi Gecaga on behalf of KWS director-general John Waweru. "The apron is flooded as well as the visitor service centre, which has made it impossible to serve our customers," it said. The airstrip will be reopened when conditions become favourable but the rest of the park remains open. Visitors are advised to be cautious and seek guidance on the condition of roads and gates on the park hotline number 0716 493 335. There are daily scheduled flights from Nairobi to Amboseli’s airstrip and flights from Tsavo West and the Masai Mara. KWS said it regretted the inconveniences caused by the closure. The service on Tuesday said some of the National Parks' roads have been adversely affected, especially the Amboseli National Park. The Meteorological department in its seven-day forecast has already asked Kenyans to brace for more rains. Heavy rains have caused havoc in various parts of the country causing massive damages and losses. The rains have caused floods, landslides and displacement of people. Flooding has so far claimed the lives of 118 people countrywide and affected more than 32 counties. Five hotels in Samburu and Isiolo counties have been marooned by heavy rains, forcing police to use helicopters to rescue tourists. Hotels affected in the two counties are Intrated Safari Lodge, Asnil Lodges, Larsens Camp, Elephant Bedroom and Sarova Shaba Lodges. A combined team of rangers from Isiolo county and disaster committee backed by Kenya Wild Life Service chopper led the evacuation mission. Isiolo county Tourism director Julius Cheptei who coordinated the evacuation said that all the clients were safe and had been transferred to Sarova Shaba and Simba lodges. The disruption of services at tourist class lodges and camps comes a day after the facility was submerged by the rising water levels that had hit up to four feet above the metre. Cheptei said the water had destroyed kitchen utensils and other valuables worth millions of shillings. He said the lodge had been temporarily closed down until further repairs and other necessities were fitted, then it will resume operations.