Senior Counsel Ahmednasir Abdullahi has offered to represent Kenyan rapper, King Kaka in court over any defamation case arising from his controversial song 'Wajinga Nyinyi'. The rapper released his latest hit called last Saturday where it highlights some of the corruption cases and challenges facing Kenyans. In his seven-minute spoken-word piece, the artist used his skill to criticise  Kenyans for being quick in forgetting cases of corruption and later elect the same implicated individuals to power. The artist included the NYS scandal in his piece during the helm of the current Kirinyaga governor Anne Waiguru. King Kaka said that 'the governor bought a biro pen at a cost of Sh8,000 which is locally sold at Sh20 and is now the governor'. The governor has threatened to sue him for defaming her in his song if he will not respond to the conditions given. But the senior counsel said on Tuesday through his Twitter account that he will represent him in court if anyone will sue him over the song. The lawyer also said that people in power should not use their powers to intimidate the taxpayers. His move later appeared to receive backing from Elgeyo Marakwet senator Kipchumba Murkomen. Murkomen said that 'the public figures shouldn’t be too eager to rush to court'. "As public figures, we shouldn’t be too eager to rush to court. A few quotes from the Landmark US SC decision of NYT v Sullivan will suffice. 1.”The maintenance of the opportunity for free political discussion ...is a fundamental principle of our constitutional system,” Justice Brennan. King Kaka had earlier alleged that he had been threatened by some individuals who he did not mention. Waiguru said that the song was meant to instigate hatred and rebellion to her. The governor had demanded that the artist pulled down his song and apologise for mentioning her in his piece. She also added that the rapper should confirm through a letter that he will not defame her in his songs. Kenyans received his song with varying reactions. Others applauded him for being confident enough to name the corrupt. Some of the Kenyan felt that the rapper was selective and bias in his song by sidelining some of the notable cases of corruption.