A court has barred the Homa Bay government from sacking members of the County Public Service Board as approved by MCAs. The Employment and Labour Relations Court sitting in Kisumu restrained the county government from firing board members Daniel Ogada (chairman), Collins Odhiambo (secretary) and Tobias Odundo (member). Justice Mathews Nderi issued an order allowing the officials to continue discharging their duties until the petition is concluded. The petition was filed by the three board members to challenge a recommendation by the MCAs to send them home. The trio mentioned the county assembly, the county government and Governor Cyprian Awiti as respondents. In their petition, the board members argued that they acted in accordance with the law in the recently concluded recruitment of health workers which turned controversial. Last week, the MCAs passed a motion in which they recommended that Governor Awiti sends the board members home over alleged misconduct in the employment exercise. They accused the board of recruiting 165 instead of 143 health workers which were advertised earlier. The board officials were also accused of taking bribes and demanding sex during the exercise. However, the board members argued that recruitment of the additional workers was done following official instructions from county secretary Isaiah Ogwe and Health chief officer Gerald Akeche. On Thursday, while delivering the ruling Justice Nderi barred the implementation of a report compiled by the county assembly's Administration and Security committee. He also barred any of the respondents from declaring any vacancy for positions of the board. “Pending hearing and determination of this application, a conservatory order is hereby issued to restrain the respondents from recruiting anyone as a member or members of the Homa Bay Public Service board,” Nderi wrote. The order comes as a relief for the board members whom the county assembly has made more than one attempt to sack. Last year in June, the MCAs made a similar attempt to send them home but they secured a court order. Edited by R.Wamochie