The government has started the vetting and licensing of all private security providers across the country. This is the latest move by the Ministry of Interior amid efforts to streamline the sector. In October, it was exposed that some private security firms have been collecting millions of shillings from clients but end up paying peanuts to their contracted guards. The National Assembly committee on delegated legislation heard that some rogue security firms receive as much as Sh50,000 per guard every month but only pay them a meagre salary of Sh8, 000 — a figure mentioned by the workers — with the rest said to cater for "company’s logistics". Interior PS Karanja Kibicho described the move as unfair labour practice, adding it would be addressed by the Private Security (General) Regulations, 2019 which come into effect on January 5, 2020. “We have responsibilities to look at both the interests of the guards and the employer. It is not fair that the consumers pay Sh50,000 but guards only get Sh5,000 from the companies,” Kibicho said. In a statement to newsrooms on Tuesday, the Fred Matiangi-led ministry said only the firms that are vetted and cleared by March 31 next year will be considered for licensing. "Section 28 of the Private Security Regulations Act requires that no person shall engage in the provision of private security services or offer private security services unless that person is licensed by the Private Security Regulatory Authority," read part of the statement. Going forward, all the firms are required to immediately submit a copy of company certificate of incorporation or formal registration document. The firms are also required to submit certified copies of identification documents for every director, partner, trustee or shareholder. "In view of the foregoing and fulfillment of the provisions of the law, all private security providers are required to immediately submit valid certificates of good conduct for every director, partner, trustee and shareholder," the statement read. The companies will also submit certified shareholders' certificate CR12, a copy of KRA pin certificate for the company and all directors, partners, trustees and shareholders. They will be required to further submit a three year audited account of the firms, two recent colored passport size photo of every director, partner, trustee or shareholder. "They must submit immigration status and a valid work permit in case of an expatriate, physical address, email address and telephone number of every director, partner, trustee and shareholder," the statement read in part. Finally the firms are required to submit names, addresses. email addresses and telephone numbers of all persons performing executive functions in respect of the firms. Last month a section of the private security firms said it is impossible to comply with the new security regulations before January. They criticised the government for ‘hastily’ gazetting the Private Security (General) Regulations, 2019 to operationalise the Private Security Regulation Act, 2016.