A former governor is a troubled man. The ex-county boss will soon be battling a divorce case filed by his estranged wife of 30 years. The furious wife is said to have moved to court after the man sold some of the family's property in Mombasa and Nairobi for Sh200 million — and decided to marry a third wife. The former county boss has been staying with his second wife, whom he married a year after he was elected governor in 2013, having fallen out with the then county first lady. The case is promising to be a historic legal battle, with the woman having lined up the country's best legal minds. She has turned down requests from her husband's family to withdraw the case and reach an amicable solution out of court. Is a governor in Northeastern quietly shedding illegally employed staff who've been gobbling over Sh40 million monthly from the county coffers? The county boss seems to be doing so after word went out that anti-graft agencies are on the case. A fly on the wall whispered to Corridors that the county has been struggling since the new boss took over. Appointments are handed to cronies without due process of law, including for sensitive roles in the Treasury. Those following the events say the ghost worker debacle is just a fraction of the county mess. They say their situation is worse than the Sh350 million garbage tender case that took Governor Mike Sonko to court. MCAs are up in arms in a Nyanza county over the conduct of their deputy speaker whom they claim recently used their names to swindle Sh2.6 million from the Executive. It is alleged that the senior county assembly official solicited the money under the guise of facilitating a committee training. The MCAs are now collecting signatures to impeach the deputy speaker whom they say has a legendary appetite for money. Still in Western, a print journalist and two others from a vernacular radio station and a local daily are the talk of their colleagues after their fortunes changed overnight for the better. The three secured tenders from two politicians to save face for the duo from a bad press. One of the scribes bought a second-hand sedan car after securing a road construction contract influenced by a senior county official. His brief is to be a gatekeeper for the official. His radio colleague and the other print journalist also clinched a tender to construct toilets through the NG-CDF, all inducements being for them to go easy on the area MP.