  A cuckolded ex-soldier committed suicide in Baringo on Wednesday by hanging himself on the verandah of a man he believed was having an affair with his wife. The body of Chepkwony Kimosop, a retired army private from Kapkiamo village in Baringo North was found dangling outside the door of matatu driver who is also a former KDF soldier. Kimosop, 55, was a father of four. His body was discovered on Thursday morning by family members. His house is a stone throw away from the house of the matatu driver. “He left home on Wednesday evening, saying he was going to Kapkiamo trading centre to buy some ropes to tether his goats,” his brother Aaron Yegon said. Yegon said they were shocked to find the body of his elder brother hanging on the veranda of their neighbour. Witnesses said the retired KDF private's marriage was rocky and could have been the reason that pushed him to take away his life. His wife's phone was switched off after they learned about her husband's death. Yegon said his brother had relationship issues and there seemed to have a breakdown of trust in his marriage. Police took Kimosop's body to Baringo County Hospital Mortuary in Kabarnet town as his brothers fought tears of sorrow. The matatu driver was taken to Kabarnet police station for fear of attack. Baringo county police commander Robinson Ndiwa said two witnesses had recorded statements with police over the incident. In March 2018, Bosei Day Secondary School principal Norah Koech, 40, hanged herself in her room in the same village. Ndiwa said cases of suicide were on the rise with 17 people have taken away their lives since January 2019. Concerned residents called for a review of the working conditions of soldiers. “It is unfortunate that the Kenya Armed Forces are engaged in duty for over six months without seeing their families, which is really against human rights,” Joseph Makilap said. He asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to review the welfare of "our brothers and sisters serving in the disciplined forces."  edited by p. obuya