Some 300 families in Mombasa spent Christmas on the edge after leaflets were spread that they would be evicted. The families in Bombo and Maweni in Kisauni constituency say they have been living in anxiety for many years but this time the threats were scarier. “I was walking home when I saw some of the leaflets pinned on a wall on my neighbour's house. I raised the alarm. We have had bad Christmases before but this has been the worst,” said Safari Kahindi, a resident of Bombo. At Utange Bombo, some 200 families living on a 14-acre piece of land since 1927  face eviction after a Sacco appeared in 1997 saying they had bought the land. “We were doing well in court against the Sacco. We won at the High Court. But at the Court of Appeal, our lawyer did not show up for the case. In fact, he never told us the case was ongoing at the appellate court,” Robert Katana, a village elder, said. Katana said they inherited the land from their forefathers. The property has churches, five primary schools, a mosque and graves on it. The residents believe their lawyer made a deal with the Sacco behind their backs. Kahindi said the youth of the village spent Christmas eve on vigil looking out for any hired goons sent to evict them. “It is not the best way to celebrate the birth of Jesus Christ,” Kahindi said. At Utange Maweni, about 100 other families living on a 10.2-acre land also spent Christmas in fear. The land belonged to an Indian farmer who had a poultry business and had hired residents as workers but now they are threatened with eviction. “The last time they came was on Christmas eve. They said they wanted to start their projects on January 1 and that we have to leave by then,” resident Mzungu Chengo said. Chengo said they have been living on the land since 1983. “We worked for him so faithfully that when he started ailing he left us in charge of the land. In 1987, he called three of us and instructed us to take care of the land until he comes back. He has never come back,” he said. In 2011, one of the residents said two lawyers were willing to help them register the land so it could legally be theirs. “We showed them the boundaries. Little did we know the two lawyers had their own plans. They went and registered the land in their names,” said Bahati Thoya. He said he was one of the residents entrusted with the land by the Indian farmer. “We had to look for a third lawyer. The other two only took our money and short-changed us,” Thoya said. The Law Society of Kenya has raised concern over the increasing cases of lawyers getting involved in professional misconduct especially over land issues in Mombasa. LSK Mombasa chair Mathew Nyabena told the Star that although sometimes lawyers also fall victim to fraudsters, who are mainly land sellers and officers in the lands registry, some lawyers have turned rogue. “There could be instances where lawyers have also been defrauded by virtue of documents being created in the lands office. “When you do a search you think it is okay but it has been faked,” Nyabena said on phone. Nyabena said the society takes disciplinary action against rogue lawyers. He however said the buck stops with the issuer and custodian of the title documents, who is the registrar of titles. “We need to have people of integrity there so that we don’t have people switching files and in the process defrauding Kenyans,” he said. He said the Environment and Land Court has also raised concern and has taken up the issue. “We had a meeting with them and part of the approach we wish to take is have a multi-sectoral approach because it is not only a land matter but also a security issue,” the LSK Mombasa chair said.