Experienced striker John Makwata is the biggest casualty after Harambee Stars coach Francis Kimanzi named the final squad for the upcoming CECAFA Senior Challenge Cup that is set to kick-off today in Kampala, Uganda. The in-form Makwata has been one of the star performers in the Kenyan Premier League so far, scoring goals that have kept his AFC Leopards squad afloat. Stars jetted out at 1 pm yesterday. The coach has given Sweden-based Anthony Wambani a chance in the team, with yet another notable inclusion being Western Stima custodian and set-piece taker, Samuel Odhiambo. Wazito prodigy Musa Masika, Kakamega Homeboyz’s Moses Mudavadi and Mathare United quartet of Andrew Juma, Kevin Kimani, David Owino and Roy Okal have also made the final squad. KPL leading scorer Timothy Otieno and his Ulinzi Stars counterpart,  Oscar Wamalwa, will vie for the lone striker role in Kiamnzi's favoured 4-3-2-1 formation. The tournament, meanwhile, has been reorganized to now have only two groups after the withdrawal of Ethiopia, Rwanda and DR Congo. Kenya has now been pooled in Group B alongside Tanzania, Sudan, and Zanzibar. Stars start their title defence with a tough match against Tanzania tomorrow. Hosts Uganda remain the favourites to land a record-extending 15th CECAFA Senior challenge crown. Cranes have been grouped alongside, Burundi, Somalia, Djibouti and Eritrea. Top two teams in each group will proceed to the semifinals, slated for Tuesday, December 17, 2019, in Kampala. Squad: Goalkeepers: Timothy Odhiambo (Ulinzi Stars), Samuel Odhiambo (Western Stima) Defenders: Johnstone Omurwa (Wazito), Joash Onyango (Gor Mahia), Daniel Sakari (Kariobangi Sharks), Andrew Juma (Mathare United), David Owino (Mathare United), Samuel Olwande (Kariobangi Sharks) Midfielders: Anthony Wambani (Vasalunds IF), Roy Okal (Mathare United), Kenneth Muguna (Gor Mahia), Musa Masika (Wazito), Abdallah Hassan (Bandari), Moses Mudavadi (Kakamega Homeboyz), Lawrence Juma (Gor Mahia), Whyvone Isuza (AFC Leopards), Kevin Kimani (Mathare United), Cliffton Miheso (Gor Mahia) Strikers: Oscar Wamalwa (Ulinzi Stars), Timothy Otieno (Tusker)  