Criminal gangs in Njiru sub-county and its environs were on Saturday warned that security teams will soon catch up with them. They have either to reform or leave the area, security officials led by Njiru deputy county commissioner James Chacha, sub-county police commander Wilson Kosgei and his administration police counterpart Joseph Mathenge said. Njiru covers Kayole, Ruai, Njiru, Matopeni, Soweto and Kamulu. “The year is at a close. We should be more vigilant so that we open the New Year without criminal activities,” Chacha said. The area is notorious for armed robbers, criminal gangs, land grabbing cartels, cybercriminals and petty offenders. Kosgei noted that while crime had generally reduced in the sub-county, land grabbing remained a security threat. “The problem is that everybody in Njiru sub-county is either a chairman, chairperson, or director of a land company. These people are close and they lure unsuspecting buyers to other people’s land. They do not have any ownership document,” Kosgei said. The police boss warned those occupying land that is not theirs to "move out before we forcibly get you out of it”. Kosgei said that some of the cartels were so daring that they had even grabbed land meant for public utilities including police stations. “We will reclaim all grabbed land. Move peacefully or we eject you.” The officials were addressing an end-of-year party organised by the AP leadership at Njiru deputy county commissioner’s offices. The party was attended by among others the public, police officers, members of Nyumba Kumi Initiative and community policing officials. Mathenge said the occasion was intended to improve the relationship between the APs and the public. “There has been a problem in getting intelligence since the public fear police officers. The officers are your children, husbands, wives, parents and friends. Help them by giving them information to ensure that crime is eliminated from the sub-county,” he appealed. The officials also visited Imani Children Home in Kayole and donated food, clothes, shoes, bedding, sanitary towels, sweets and other goodies to the needy children, most of them orphans. Chacha commended the APs for the initiative, regretting that some people treated the police as if they are not human beings. “There are people who do not know that police officer are also human beings. But in meetings like this, they acknowledge that police and other state officials are human beings,” he said. Chacha said that residents had celebrated the festive season without major crimes due to the good work of the police. The administrator ordered chiefs to ensure that the transition to Form One is 100 per cent. “All officials should ensure all children get to secondary school. Any parent who fails to take their children to secondary should be arrested. Education is free,” he said. Chacha cautioned teachers not to send children away to get money for lunch.      