The ongoing heavy rains have claimed four lives in Kisumu, even as a community flood and mitigation team was formed to support the over 10,000 victims. The dead are two women from Seme, a 50-year-old man from Nyando who was swept away in Ombaka and another who was excavating sand in  River Nyamasaria that had swollen to dangerous levels. Paul Omanga, the secretary of the mitigation team, said support will be directed to the seven subcounties that have been greatly affected. Omanga said the team will complement the efforts by the county government. “The impact of the floods could be more as we continue to experience the heavy downpour. We are making a call to the people of Kisumu to come out and join hands in assisting the victims,” he said. County director of special programmes Ruth Odinga said they will open an account by Tuesday with different signatories, through which some of the funds will be channeled. Odinga also said a free medical camp to help the flood victims is needed. “As of now, we already have a good response from various institutions and companies. We are calling upon the community businesspersons and others to aid in this process,” Odinga said. “We have old and vulnerable persons, pregnant women, lactating mothers and small kids and any help, including clothes, will aid these people,” Odinga said. She at the same time urged politicians in the county to join hands and ensure the victims get help. “We should stop blame games. The whole county is affected, so let us all come together, join hands and support the flood victims," Odinga said. “We have erected a tent at Jomo Kenyatta Sports Ground, where we will be receiving donated items,” she said. Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa on Sunday said plans are underway to construct a four-kilometer dyke along River Nyando to mitigate the floods. River Nyando overflows during heavy downpours and displaces locals. Wamalwa spoke when he presided over the distribution of relief food and items to affected families in Nyando. The CS assured the families of government support. He asked the county government to allocate more funds to disaster management programmes to assist the needy in flood-prone areas.