There is need for Parliament to hire staff to guide guests who are visiting the premises for the first time. That is what a top chief executive officer of a top company told a Senate committee after he ‘lost directions’ in the compound of Parliament and kept the legislators waiting for about one hour. The man was appearing before the committee to provide information in the ongoing investigations into the Sh63 billion leased medical equipment. The heavily built man arrived in the committee room panting and sweating. "Sorry, I had lost direction. This place is so complicated. I have moved up and down for almost one hour," he said. The remarks shocked the Senators who asked him why he did not seek the help of security officers manning the main gate. *** Parliamentary Service Commission was forced cut the short MPs’ trip to Uganda for the East Africa Legislative Assembly (EALA) games after non participants infiltrated the list. Those in the know intimated that some officers attached to senior officers got their names in the list, yet they were not participants in the games. It is said that non-participants were more than the actual players in the final list. The move forced PSC – chaired by National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi – to cut short the trip to five days after it into ran out of cash to keep the big delegation in Uganda. **** A second-term lawmaker from Nyanza, who is finding it hard on the ground due to his dismal development record, has devised innovative ways of swaying public perception whenever he is hosted in some of the vernacular radio stations he normally frequents. The Member of Parliament, an aide confided to us, makes sure he has stationed up to 50 sycophants armed with good allowance for airtime to take over call-in sessions with praises on how he is doing well in terms of initiating projects, the majority of which has not even gone past the paper work. The lawmaker is said to have not implemented any meaningful development project since his re-election in 2017.