EACC has summoned seven Kisumu county assembly employees for questioning over alleged corruption, abuse of office and falsification of academic certificates. The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission is also probing claims of irregularities committed in the employment of staff by the assembly. In a letter dated December 2 and addressed to the county assembly clerk Owen Ojuok, the agency asked the assembly to provide original documents used and the employment files of the seven officers. The letter was signed by EACC deputy regional manager Aura Chibole. The commission also asked for the payroll of all employees of the county assembly for the months of September, October and November. Other documents demanded are the work tickets of all the trips for the three months, including payment vouchers for all the trips for the month of November. “Our officers will be available to receive the documents and record statements from your office on or before December 9, 2019,” the EACC letter says. Assembly speaker Elisha Oraro confirmed receipt of the letter from EACC. “EACC is doing its work and the members summoned will appear before the commission to clear their names. There is no cause for alarm,” Oraro said. The commission is also investigating a case in relation to allegations of corruption and irregular payments during the budget committee meetings where assembly staff and MCAs were paid honoraria allowances during the 2018-19 financial year. “On November 1, 2019, we received an original cashbook for the period of August 2018 to June 2019. We wish to advise you that we are holding onto the original cashbook for our ongoing investigations,” EACC said. “If the auditors are in need of the said original cashbook, it may be released to them and be in their custody and the same be collected from them as they will take responsibility for the book for the entire period they will have it.” In another letter also dated December 3, the commission requested for additional documents from the assembly such as the payroll for the staff, MCAs and county service board members between November 2018 to February 2019. They also want a register for those who participated in the budget process and the appointment letters for members of the budget committee. The commission is also investigating chaos that was witnessed at the assembly on September 10.  edited by p. obuya