The Njuri Ncheke Supreme Council of Elders has been hailed for deciding to end a five-year leadership tussle. The council had split into two, with some elders supporting the leadership of Phares Rutere as chairman and Paul M’Ethinkia as secretary. The other faction was led by Linus Kathera as chairman and Josphat Murangiri as the secretary. The tussle degraded the council and exposed it in a bad light after ththe two factions went against each other with counter-accusations and court battles. The elders have agreed to end their differences and unite. Leaders from the area, Trade and Cooperatives CS Peter Munya, Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi and Tharaka Nithi Governor Muthomi Njuki, yesterday said the pact entered by the elders is a step in the right direction. Munya said it is a new dawn that Ameru will be speaking in one voice. “I talked to President Uhuru Kenyatta, and he assured me that during his development tour to Meru he will visit the elders. You all know how Njuri Ncheke wrangles started. It is all about the lack of good management in succession,” he said. Njuki said the pivotal role of Njuri Ncheke is respected the world over due to their leadership and governance. “This is a great step towards uniting Ameru. There will no longer be an imposter to speak for Njuri but the genuine leaders crowned here,” Njuki said. A cow gift to the chairman National Council of Elders Ruteere and former Njuri Ncheke Supreme Council of elder’s secretary M’Ethinkia by the elders and the coronation of new leaders marked the end of Njuri’s two factions. Murangiri (secretary general operations), Mbaya Muthamia organising secretary and chairman Kathera were bestowed with instruments of power, which were handed over by Rutere.  “This is a historic day that Njuri has reclaimed its lost glory. It is time we unite Ameru people. Njuri is a government and the new leaders must be respected for the next 10 years,” Rutere said. Kiraitu reminded the new leadership to lead without fear or favour and when their 10-year term expires, they should vacate office. The elders pledged to unite the Meru people from Thuci to Ntonyiri, in Meru, Tharaka Nithi, Isiolo and the diaspora. The divisions in Njuri Ncheke arose in 2015 after Tharaka Nithi Senator Kithure Kindiki was installed elder and the Ameru community spokesperson. Munya then spearheaded Murangiri’s faction to hold elections. In April this year, the elders entered into an agreement at the High Court in Meru to settle their disputes out-of-court.  The council held a reconciliation meeting on April 1.  They also agreed to dialogue and consult on emerging disputes among the council, find ways of solving wrangles and amend their constitution. They will also remain as one indivisible unit as per the wishes of their founding father Kaura O Bechau. The elders said Bechau pronounced a curse that the council must “never die”. Their consent was adopted by Meru High Court judge Francis Gikonyo. When the elders split, there were fears all councils in the region would collapse.