From politicians to journalists to musicians, 2019 has been a year where lovers finally tied the knot after months and years of romance and dating. As we prepare for the new year ahead, we look back at 2019's celebrity and notable weddings – from the secret nuptials to the over-the-top affairs. There have been extravagant wedding ceremonies in public venues full of cameras like Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru's and there have also been invite-only weddings whose ceremonies were either private or a secret. As some got ditched and others broke up, these lucky ones decided to make it official. Some of these couples, Kenyans did not even know they were dating until their wedding  pictures started making  rounds on social media. This is to show that there could have been more secret weddings that the media has no idea about. Lately, many individuals in the limelight choose to make certain aspects of their lives private. Mostly involving their spouses, children or just making specific events in their lives out of the judgmental grasp of social media. Here are some of the notable personalities who tied the knot this year. Anne Waiguru Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru finally said  'i do' to the love of her life lawyer Kamotho Waiganjo this year. In a lavish ceremony held at Kiamugumo Primary School the two exchanged vows in the presence of thousands of invited guests including President Uhuru Kenyatta Opposition leader Raila Odinga. This came after a private dowry ceremony which held in February. Waiganjo is a prominent lawyer and was once married to a Nairobi-based publishing consultant and journalist Lorna Seneiya with whom he had three children. At least 30 MPs, Cabinet Secretaries and Principal Secretaries were present. Some of the invitees were woman representatives Florence Mutua (Busia), Gladys Wanga (Homa Bay) and Sabina Chege (Murang'a). Others include Interior PS Karanja Kibicho, Transport CS James Macharia, Narok Senator Ledama ole Kina, Siaya's James Orengo, Public Service Chief Administrative Secretary Rachel Shebesh, Nairobi Assembly Speaker Beatrice Elachi and Gender Commission member Priscilla Nyokabi. Kanze Dena State House Spokesperson Kanze Dena and fiance Nick Mararo also got married this year. The former journalist and her IT expert boyfriend tied the knot in a private traditional ceremony in Nanyuki in March. Mararo is a communication expert (CEO of Mobilesure Kenya) who normally tends to shy away from the limelight. Kanze is said to have walked down the aisle at the top-secret affair at the Sweet Waters Serena Camp inside the Ol Pejeta conservancy. Only close family members and invited guests attended the former Citizen TV anchor’s wedding. The mother of one has successfully managed to keep her husband off the cameras even though she is a public figure herself. Nyashinski Many ladies were left heartbroken when Musician Nyamari Ongegu alias Nyashinski announced that he was officially off the bachelor's bandwagon. Of all the celebrities who wed this year, Nyashinski took everyone by surprise since no one even knew he was engaged. Nyanshinski and girlfriend Zippy Bett, a fashion stylist held their private traditional wedding on November 1. From the pictures and videos posted on Nyashinsi's Instagram page, the ceremony was quite lavish and intimate. Zippy, who runs her own clothing line, Zia Collection Africa, was in the company of a bevvy of beauties, her close friends, while Nyamari was accompanied by close personal and industry friends including Nameless, Bien and Savara of Sauti Sol, BigPin, UB, Talent Manager Fakii Liwali, Roba (former Kleptomaniax group member). Sam Gituku The articulate Citizen TV reporter is officially off the market. Gituku married his long term girlfriend and colleague in a glamorous wedding at the Deliverance Church in Karen. The show host and news director exchanged their vows in the presence of big names from the media industry. Some of their colleagues present included  Waihiga Mwaura, Mac Otani among others. Maureen Kunga Seemingly, 2019 was the year of many secret weddings for many Kenyan celebrities. Maureen, a songstress and member of the popular Elani band also sailed in the same boat. Photos of her wedding caught everyone by surprise since the singer had not shown any signs of living singlehood. The wedding took place at the end of August on the shores of Lake Naivasha towards. Only invited family and friends graced the ceremony. Mr Seed Gospel artist Mr Seed and his long term girlfriend  Nimo Gachuiri also joined the married club this year. The two had their traditional wedding with a yellow and blue theme in August. The lovebirds exchanged vows in a colourful ceremony held at Nimo's parents' home in Kasarani, Nairobi. In March this year, the singer and his lovely wife welcomed their first bundle of joy, a bouncing baby boy whom they named  Gold Christen. Rumours of Mr Seed's infidelity had threatened to cause a split between the couple but as they love conquers all. Francis Kimemia Nyandarua Governor Francis Kimemia and wife Ann Kimemia renewed their vows in a lavish traditional ceremony in November. The function which was held in Nyeri was graced by President Uhuru Kenyatta's mother Mama Ngina. The event was attended by Governors Anne Waiguru, Lee Kinyanjui, Nderitu  among other dignitaries