Trouble is brewing for Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria in his backyard. A former governor is said to be working with a team led by a former MP to hold a major demonstration next week against the abrasive lawmaker for allegedly going against President Uhuru Kenyatta. It is believed that this is the beginning of a protracted campaign to install another member of an influential family as the area MP even before 2022 as the BBI fallout rages. Could this be the reason Kuria is warming up to DP William Ruto? Is acting Treasury CS Ukur Yatani aware that some of his officers at the Pensions Department continue to demand bribes from retirees to process their pension? This matter was brought to Parliament as early as April 2003 by then-Mwingi South MP David Musila. The defunct Kenya Anti-Corruption Commission in 2007 launched investigations into the operations at the department and uncovered loopholes. It appears nothing has changed as officers now ask for Sh30,000 from retired teachers, police officers and nurses, among other retirees, to process their claims. Keen followers want answers on how long these senior citizens will continue to suffer as corrupt officers withhold their dues. Although the logging ban has been in force for about a year now, some roadside stalls in Nairobi West seem not to have been affected as far as the supply of charcoal is concerned. The piles of sacks of charcoal are openly displayed. Whereas the business could be legitimate, the stalls are located directly opposite a health facility that is now bearing the brunt of charcoal dust, among other problems. The Nairobi West Hospital also contends with insecurity that is often associated with such stalls, particularly because they turn into cheap liquor drinking dens at night. Sources cited an increase in the number of muggings around the hospital. Just recently, a woman was mugged shortly after having her husband admitted a little after 3am. There are whispers that the operators enjoy protection from some local leaders whom they give a daily protection fee. Just what fears do senior officials at Nairobi’s City Hall have that they do not want to comment on matters touching on the county government? Well, a top official last week threatened to sue a media house for publishing a story quoting him dispelling fears of disruption of services in the county following the arraignment of Governor Mike Sonko, who was barred from accessing his office.