The government has called for fresh applications for the position of Auditor General, setting the stage for a fierce legal challenge on the process. Kenyans interested in replacing Edward Ouko are required to submit their applications to the Public Service Commission by December 30. Members of Parliament, MCAs and political party officials have been barred, including those removed from office on account of breaching the law. But the move has been greeted with a legal hurdle following a petition filed by activist Okiya Omtatah at the Labour Court on Tuesday. Omtatah wants the process stopped on grounds there is no provision in the law for calling fresh applications at the level of the selection panel. “There is no room for the panel to terminate the recruitment,” Omtatah said. “You cannot introduce extraneous reasons at that stage after shortlisting.” The Public Audit Act, 2015, says the seven-member panel presents three names to the President to select a nominee for the National Assembly's approval. The Act sets timelines within which the applications are to be processed, candidates interviewed and for the National Assembly vote. Going by Ouko’s exit date in August, MPs should have approved the nominee by December 3–which would have been two days into their long recess. Omtatah argues that the process has been shrouded in secrecy against the provisions which demand that the panel holds its sittings in public. “The panel shall submit to Parliament a report of the interview proceedings, which should include inter alia the scores of each candidate interviewed by individual members of the interviewing panel together with the criteria used in selecting the names forwarded,” the Act states. However, the law is silent on what happens next should the panel fail to get three persons suited for the job. The Star reported the machinations around the process citing a deliberate attempt by State House to influence the appointment. But the selection panel, despite stating that it had sent its recommendations to Uhuru, later told journalists that they failed to get a suitable Ouko replacement. Chairman Sammy Onyango argued that interviewees from among the 17 shortlisted persons had the academic and technical qualifications but lacked diplomacy, independence and tact. “Based on the criteria that we set, we were unable to pick the minimum three nominees out of the 17 as required by the Public Audit Act,” he said. Onyango added, “Although the office will remain vacant, services will continue and the only thing that will be missing is the signature of the officeholder.” But Omtatah says there is no way the process can terminate at the selection panel, further arguing that once shortlisted, it means a candidate has met minimum requirements. “Only Parliament has the powers to reject a nominee. Even the President has no such power, let alone the panel,” he added. The activist wants the selection panel compelled to send the three names it settled upon to the President and details of the interview results to Parliament. Omtatah also wants the appointment of Controller of Budge Margaret Nyakang’o revoked on grounds she is not qualified. The activist further argues that the panel that recruited the budget boss was dominated by state officers, hence not suitable for recruiting an independent office holder. The panel has representatives of the Office of the President, Attorney General, National Treasury and Labour ministry, a situation he argues is unacceptable. Omtatah further argues that "the people who were seconded to the panel are junior and therefore, not suitable to recruit a senior official of the COB stature." In the case in which the Chief Justice is among those sued, the public litigant claims there was collusion between the Executive, Parliament and Judiciary. “How could the National Assembly approve the nominee at around 11am, the gazette notice issued 30 minutes later and before long the Chief Justice had sworn-in the candidate? Wasn’t that an act of collusion?” he asked. “For starters, the woman is not qualified. We don’t know how Parliament communicated to the President,” Omtatah argued. The Auditor General’s case followed the Public Service Commission call for fresh applications for the post left vacant after Edward Ouko’s term ended in August. Edited by R.Wamochie