Two former Nairobi county officials were on Friday arrested in relation to graft. They are Peter Mbugua Kariuki, the former county secretary, and Patrick Mwangagngi, the former head of procurement. Governor Mike Sonko was also arrested on Friday after detectives trailed him for more than 14 hours. The EACC has ordered 13 other suspects to present themselves at Integrity Center or the nearest police station. Those being pursued include Web Tribe Ltd director Danson Muchemi, whose company is behind the JamboPay payments processing platform; Zablon Onyango, an agent of Web Tribe and Robert Muriithi, a director. Others are Samuel Mwangi, Edwin Kariuki, Lawrence Mwangi and Preston Mwandiki, all members of the tender evaluation committee. Wambua Ndaka and Andrew Myasiego are senior clerical officers; as well as Anthony Mwaura and Rose Njeri, who are directors of Hardi Enterprises. Also sought are Fredrick Odhiambo and Anthony Otieno of Yiro Enterprises and ROG Securities Ltd. Sonko was arrested after the Director of Public Prosecution Noordin Haji ordered for his arrest. "I want to confidently state from the onset that I am more than ready for the lawful course that will help us know the truth," he said. In a statement, Sonko said he believes in total accountability, especially when it comes to management of public resources. "I have read word by word the statement from the DPP that details reasons for my arrest and nothing gives me more confidence than leafing through it knowing very well we have the facts to dismantle this choreographed lies," he said. Sonko called upon his supporters and Nairobi residents to be calm as he deals with 'this temporary insubordination'. "I assure everyone that I shall not be intimidated and won’t be moved an inch into some political traps," he said. Sonko said he stands for justice and he is  more than ready for the court process . "... I will unleash myarmoury against these conspirators. As a matter of fact, my quest for justice that puts EACC on the spot over land grabbing will remain on course," he said. Noting that officers did not have to arrest him, Sonko said the DPP or EACC should tell him which court he is going to. Earlier the EACC said Sonko was arrested while trying to flee but the governor has dismissed these claims. In a post on Twitter on Friday afternoon, EACC said they nabbed the governor who was attempting to escape from authorities. "Why would l run away? To where and to do what? I am a Kenyan who is always on the move doing what's good for the people,"Sonko said. The governor noted that he was on his way to Mombasa to attend and close a workshop. "I was overwhelmingly elected by Nairobians and have never skipped any EACC invite and those from other authorities.We now have the platform we needed to shed more light on the issues raised," he said. "....I am ready. We are ready ,Be ready.".