Tiger Woods’ niece Cheyenne Woods will be the star attraction today when the Magical Kenya Open Pro-Am tees off today at the Vipingo Ridge course. Cheyenne, who is drawn alongside Martha Vincent, Jean Ngengi and Lawrence Kimathi will be the last group out of the first tee. Cheyenne is playing in Africa for the first time and will be the player to watch in the event which is the last of the year in the Ladies European Tour (LET). The Ladies European Tour is happening in Kenya for the first time. Patrick Obath, his wife Terry and former Kenya Golf Union chairman Francis Okwara will play in the same group with French professional Astrid Vayson de Pradenne. The foursome will tee off from the first tee at 7:45 am. The Pro-Am has quite a big chunk of ladies and male amateurs enlisted. Another French professional Camille Chevalier is lined up along with Jamal Agil, Florence Karimi and George Gachanja. Action proper starts on Thursday morning through to Sunday. Ruiru Sports Club Captain Peter Mwaura will start off from the tenth.tee with Germany pro-Olivia Cowan, Susan Mwangi and Rufus Gichuki. Three African players, Maha Haddioui from Morocco, Georgia Oboh (Nigeria) and Stacy Lee Bregmann(South Africa) have been selected to feature in the Pro-Am. Haddioui will lead her team of Sarah Hoare, Phyllis Kimbo and Liz Gitobu off the tee at the 10th at 8:45 am while Oboh leads her team of  Mary Wambui, Alice Wahome and Naomi Wamboi off the 10th tee at 9:15 am. Lee Bergmann will tee off at 9:25 am Gladys Mutisya, Haresh Bhatia and Cheryl Rautenbach. The Pro-Am tournament will culminate in a golf clinic for 26 junior golfers who will be coached by four LET players. The 26 junior golfers will be divided into two groups of 20 and six and will be taken through golf basics on chipping and putting. The junior golfers will be coached by four-time LET winner, Linda Wessberg from Sweden, Meghan MacLaren and Felicity Johnson, who have both won twice and Nigerian Georgia Oboh. The event is sponsored by Magical Kenya, M-Pesa, Capital FM, KCB, Aquamist, East African Breweries, Turkish Airlines, Vipingo Development, KPA and Wilken.