Alumni of Laboret Primary School in Uasin Gishu caused a stir on Saturday in Laboret village when they visited to trace and reward their former teachers. Some were students at the school about half a century ago. The group of over 60 former students, led by Exports Processing Zones Authority (EPZA) chairman Paul Gicheru, visited the homes of at least 10 former teachers. They gifted the families cash ranging from Sh150,000 to Sh400,000, furniture, TVs, cows, household items, Christmas shopping and letters of appreciation. The group also raised Sh4 million to build a modern library at the school. Gicheru said they decided to give back to the school and the former teachers for the good work the teachers rendered to the society. “Were it not for the teachers and the school, none of us would be what we are today,” Gicheru, also a lawyer, said. The group visited the home of Zakayo Adema who was a teacher at the school more than 40 years ago. They gave him a cash gift of Sh400,000. Adema was caught by surprise and excitement when his former students visited his home in Lugari constituency. “These are great blessings to me. I have not met my former pupils, some for more than 50 years. I am very excited to see them and at my age, I have no choice but to shower them with blessings,” he said. Adema said as a teacher he had handled many pupils but never thought some would go back to thank and gift him in appreciation. Gicheru, the patron of the initiative at Laboret Primary School, said Kenyans can positively contribute to developing facilities in schools along with the greater role the government plays in the development of educational facilities. The school is located a few kilometres from DP William Ruto’s Sugoi home in Uasin Gishu. Ruto, Gicheru, Governor Stephen Sang, former Jubilee official David Murathe, Kesses MP Swarrup Mishra, former CBK governor Micah Cheserem and Mt Kenya University chairman Simon Gicharu are among those who have contributed towards the development of the library.