Good morning, Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko was yesterday taken from remand prison to hospital as court documents revealed the diseases he suffered from prior to his release from jail 18 years ago. Doctors attending to the governor at Kenyatta National Hospital did not say what he was being treated for but Sonko's handlers said he suffered chest pains and high blood pressure. Here are the other stories making headlines in the Star this morning. There is a public outcry in Kilifi county's Marafa in Magarini constituency after the government shut down a key tourism attraction site following alleged terror threats. Hell's Kitchen is a renowned site that dates back hundreds of years and has been a tourist attraction centre for over 20 years.  Boda Boda riders are some of the endangered population groups at the highest risk of contracting and transmitting HIV in Homa Bay county. The Homa Bay multi-sectoral Aids Strategic Plan 2014/15-2018-19 ranks the riders first, followed by persons whose spouses have died, orphans, single mothers, young people between 15-24 years of age, salon workers, PSV drivers of matatus, taxis, minibuses, divorcees, entertainers and fisherfolk. Degodia King Wabar Abdille on Tuesday received 101 camels from the Saransoor community living in Wajir county. Wabar leads the Degodia clan globally. Besides Kenya, they inhabit parts of Southern Somalia and Southern Ethiopia.   The ninth African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) ended in Nairobi on Tuesday, with 79 countries pledging to  promote inter Africa trade against unfair global trade practices Members unanimously endorsed the Nairobi Nguvu Yetu declaration (Stronger Together), that among other things advocates for the establishment of air and sea trading routes between the three regions to increase the bloc’s global trading to 10 per cent from current three per cent in next 10 years. West Pokot leaders have appealed to President Uhuru Kenyatta to halt the BBI agenda and focus on the ruins caused by downpours. They want floods declared a national disaster so the country can seek international aid. Kacheliba MP Mark Lomunakol said funds meant for the implementation of the BBI recommendations should be diverted to help those who have been displaced by floods.