The Directorate of Criminal Investigations detectives are probing an incident where a prison police officer allegedly shot two people in Turkana on Saturday. The police constable allegedly shot and seriously wounded the victims over a suspected love triangle. Jackson Logomin, 22, and Caren Ewalan, 30, were attacked and injured by the suspect in separate incidents in Turkana Central subcounty according to a police report seen by the Star. The shooting incidents were reported to Turkana police station. “It was reported by a member of the public that Jackson Longomin was shot on the lower abdomen by a person believed to be a prison officer. He was rushed to Lodwar County and Referral Hospital as the assailant boarded a motorcycle and escaped,” reads the police report in part. The report was recorded at Lodwar police station on OB NO 48/28/12/2019 at around 4.15pm. “A few minutes later, another reported at around 4.20pm that her neighbour Caren Ewalan had been shot on the chest by a person believed to be a prison officer and was rushed to Lodwar County and Referral Hospital,” the report reads. Police sources said that the assailant fled to one of his colleagues who disarmed him and took into custody one MPS rifle S/NO 822151. The assailant was stationed at Lodwar GK Prison. He escaped with a magazine loaded with an unknown number of 9mm bullets. “Assailant is still at large and dangerous, the motive is suspected to be a love triangle,” reads the report. Elsewhere in Garissa county, an armed Administration Police officer, Mike Lebaryia was on Friday arrested after he threatened to shoot residents while drunk. The incident was reported to Garissa police station by corporal Khalif Aden in charge of Raya Solar plant night shift, while he was on duty with other officers at about 8pm on Saturday. The matter was reported to Garissa police station on OB 74/27/12/2019 at 9.50pm. “The officer threatened to shoot anyone and kill himself. He later went to his home and picked G3 Rifle S/NO J66278 where he went berserk and unlawfully fired 18 rounds of 7.62 mm.” The officer was, however, disarmed by his colleagues after he was arrested and placed in custody awaiting disciplinary action. 