As President Uhuru Kenyatta was hosting a Christmas party for State House staff on Thursday night, workers at the Deputy President William Ruto’s office were overheard complaining of the way things have played differently for them this season. The staffers lamented that as many would expect that they be well-resourced for being close to the DP, the reverse is true. The staffs rarely have an opportunity to sit with their boss on such matters, and only see him on TV. Their worry is that they may proceed for the holidays with dry pockets. Still on Ruto, a distinguished scholar has got tongues wagging with his moves which point to him warming up to the deputy president’s 2022 bid. The don has lately dropped his earlier criticism of the DP and has been unleashing the whip on key decisions made by the Jubilee administration. The man was at one time an unapologetic supporter of President Uhuru Kenyatta, even at times apportioning the blame of Jubilee’s failures on the DP. Those keenly following say the man changed after failing several attempts to catch Uhuru’s eye for a state job and now hopes he will reap should Ruto clinch the top seat. A junior finance officer at a county in Nyanza is a worried man in the wake of the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission and the Directorate of Criminal Investigations zeroing in on his bank accounts. The man, who is earning a paltry Sh20,000 a month, is on the spot for receiving in excess of Sh700million since the onset of devolution. The fellow has been living large and breathed a sigh of relief recently when Kenya Revenue Authority was on the neck of tax evaders. Those close to him say the man appears as one who did not know that he was being fattened for a more ruthless slaughter. A governor in Western is complaining that some of his County Executive Committee members are having a know-it-all attitude almost to the point that he cannot tell them anything.  A county employee whispered to Corridors that the governor once grumbled that these CECs even treat his advice as inferior. However, it can be remembered that the governor, while on the campaign trail promised the electorate that he was going to appoint to his cabinet people who are very well educated and not just fanatics. One then wonders why the governor would complain if the people he appointed appear outsmart him.