Two Jubilee senators have told President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga to come clean on the governance system they want. The senators allied to Deputy President William Ruto said they were ready to support the Building Bridges Initiative report but their delay was caused by the two leaders. Senator Kipchuma Murkomen of Elgeyo Marakwet and his Nandi counterpart Samson Cherargei told Raila to his face to tell Kenyans straight whether they want a parliamentary or presidential system of government. Speaking on Friday during the burial of the late Dorcas Ajwang’, mother of Ruaraka MP Tom Kajwang’, in Waondo, Suba North constituency, Murkomen said BBI should not be used to divide Kenyans. “We’ve agreed to emend the Constitution to help Kenyans but you (Raila and President Uhuru) haven’t outrightly shown us direction whether you want hybrid, a parliamentary or presidential system,” Murkomen said. "Tell us what you want instead of taking us in circles so we can go to the people and rally them to support.” The Senate Majority leader added that there were proposals within the BBI report that should not be necessarily subjected to referendum but can be implemented in Parliament. He cited the fight against corruption and conflict of interest proposals. Murkomen said Kenyans did not require law to succeed in the fight against corruption but they needed a strong system where suspects are arrested and charged. He told leaders not to use the report for 2022 politics. “The BBI report shouldn’t be used as a bogeyman to scare a section of people from doing their job in their in country,” he said. Cherargei said they support BBI on grounds that it will strengthen devolution. He argued that a strong devolved government would help Kenyans realise lots of development. “We want more funds to come to counties to implement development projects. Devolution shouldn’t be put under threat,” Cherargei said. Raila was with governors Wycliffe Oparanya (Kakamega), Anyang’ Nyong’o (Kisumu) and John Nyagarama (Nyamira). Others present included Senate Speaker Ken Lusaka, Senators James Orengo (Siaya), Ochillo Oyacko (Migori), Sam Ongeri (Kisii)and George Khaniri (Vihiga), MPs John Mbadi, George Aladwa, Antony Oluoch, Babu Owino, Gladys Wanga, Opiyo Wandayi and Millie Odhiambo. But when he stood, Raila said the BBI report would address conflicting issues that have been with Kenyans for many years. The former PM said he and President Kenyatta would not make about-turn on the report. Raila said experts would go around the country and collect Kenyans' recommendations before they come up with a final document which will be subjected to a plebiscite. “Kenyans have time to go through the report before they make recommendations. The document should be people-driven,” Raila said. However, Khaniri, Orengo, Mbadi and Wandayi told off Murkomen over his remarks. Khaniri said they doubt TRhe tanga tanga team’s support on the BBI report. “We’ll stand with Raila and President Kenyatta in their endevours to bring change to the country. We shouldn’t support the report in the day time and criticize in the night,” Khaniri said. Lusaka said the Senate backs a document that supports the progress of county governments. “Senate will remain steadfast on reforms aimed to protect the devolved governments,” he said.