While Justice James Otieno Odek's professional colleagues remember him as a studious workaholic, his widow Anne Rebecca Odek, says his effortless laughter will forever remain etched in her memory. This came out yesterday during a funeral service at the All Saints Cathedral, Nairobi, as speaker after speaker paid tribute to a man whose death on December 16 dealt the Judiciary and Kenya, in general, a great blow. “You touched so many of our family and friends with your contagious smile and warm heart,” Anne recounted at the altar. She fondly remembered the man whose laughter came deep from the heart as Jim Osiepa. His eldest son William (Bill), regaled mourners with some of his favourite moments with the father. “Our favourite memories include riding on his back in the salty Indian Ocean and being rushed to the nearest tap to clear our eyes as we wailed after falling into the salty water during one of our many piggyback rides.” The mourners described the Court of Appeal judge who died aged 56 in his Kisumu apartment as industrious, humble, hospitable and generous. Prof Kiarie Mwaura, the dean of the School of Law at the University of Nairobi said the “Prof would usually clear his planned activities by 8am to concentrate on emerging issues in the course of the day.” Odiek was before his appointment to the Court of Appeal a professor of laws at the UoN. Indeed, Justice Odek’s meteoric rise academically and professionally since he started school in 1968 at the age of five is evidence of his workaholic mentality. He was a Doctor of Juridical Science (SJD) from the University of Toronto, Canada, at the youthful age of 32. John Onyango, who was Justice Odek's deputy managing director at the Kenya Intellectual Property Institute, remembered him as disciplined and hardworking. “He was punctual and would usually be in the office by 7am. He was a good listener, consultative and never made unilateral decisions,” Onyango, who is the KIPI boss, recalled. Odek's intellectual competence was internationally recognised. He was the vice-chairman of the World Intellectual Property Organisation Standing Committee; president Main Committee II of WIPO; and chairman of the Paris Union of WIPO. Family and friends spoke of his generosity to all and sundry. He contributed to church initiatives and was instrumental in the supply of electricity and piped water to his home area, according to his brother Isaac. During his last conversation with Justice Odek, Prof Mwaura recalled him asking to be allocated a few classes to teach at the Mombasa campus during his brief stay at the coast. As the service drew to a close, his widow's message was: “There is hope.” The Rev (Capt) Felix Kassums had in his sermon reminded friends, family and colleagues to mourn with hope. Justice Odek has rested but there is comfort in the fact that his legacy has rubbed off on many others to follow in his footsteps. He is survived by Anne Rebecca, William, Wilson and daughter-in-law Octavia. A postmortem is scheduled for today in Kisumu.