Kenya’s pioneer Olympian, Nyantika Maiyoro, was baptised two days prior to his passing on, family members said on Monday. According to his son, Pastor Ken Nyantika, the legendary athlete was baptised Ovensius by Father of Kisii Cathedral Church on Friday shortly before he lapsed into a coma. He died at Christa Marianne Hospital in Kisii at 8.51pm on Sunday, the younger Nyantika said. He had been at the facility for three weeks. “He used to tell me he was named Ovensius when they went to Olympic Games in Rome, Italy, in 1960. So when I was asked by the Father to suggest a name, Ovensius was the natural choice,” said Pastor Ken Nyantika. His plight was brought to public domain by the family and media, sparking an outpouring of sympathy, which prompted Internal CS Dr Fred Matiang’i and National Olympic Committee of Kenya (NOCK) to pledge support to clear hospital bill. Nyantika’s illustrious career, which ran between 1947 and 1960, was replete with humour and drama. During a visit to Helsinki, Finland, in 1950s, Nyantika travelled without a coach or a manager. Given his limited knowledge of English, following his dropping out of school at Standard Four, he endured days of humiliation and self-imposed culinary restriction. “I did not know English, and I was embarrassed to ask fellow athletes what was written in the menu. So when I was asked what I wanted to eat, I only said chicken, chicken, chicken…at breakfast, lunch and dinner…for a whole week,” Nyantika told me last year when I visited him at the 50-acre farm in Isoge Settlement Scheme in Borabu, near Nyansiongo Town. Amid stifled laughter, Nyantika recalled he was relieved when time came for his travel back home, recalling that even other fellow athletes were amused by my love for chicken. “I was relieved when I was scheduled to return home. At least I changed my diet,” he recalled. Another humorous episode was during the Indian Ocean Games in Madagascar in 1953. Nyantika had been talking to a journalist shortly before the 3,000m race in which he was assigned started. “I did not understand English so I did not realise when the race started. The journalist I was talking to dashed to the washroom, but when he returned, he noticed the race had started, but I was still standing where he had left me. “That’s when the journalist asked me why I had not started the race. The race had gone for 100 metres. I started and caught up with the them, and beat them,” he recalled. LAND MATTER Nyantika had been battling with intruders in his 50-acre land, which (Kenya’s Founding President) Kenyatta gave him in appreciation of his performances. Even at the time of his death, he always appealed to leaders to help him restore sections of the land that were reportedly grabbed. He equally fought for the house he was given inside Gusii Stadium, where he was the manager for a long time. Sources said he was compensated with another house within the town following the intervention of former Prime Minister, Raila Odinga. RUNNING CAREER His career started in 1948 as a pupil at Nyakegogi Primary School. The colonial powerful Chief Musa Nyandusi heard of this great talent and recruited him in the locational team for Kavirondo team. He used to run I mile and 3 Miles. He usually dreaded Lazaro Chepkwony of Nandi, but Nyantika always beat him, even in the East African Championships in Arusha in 1951. In 1953, he was selected for the Indian Ocean Games in Madagascar with Enos Owiye, Kiptalam Keter, Paul Boit, Sila Boit, Bartonjo Rotich, Kimaru Songok and others. After winning the race, after the belated start, coach Archie Evans was so relieved because this enhanced his profile and credibility as a coach. In fact, Nyantika recalled that before the competition in Madagascar, Evans’ coaching job was on the line. “I saved him from being fired by my performance,” he recalled. His star rose steadily. He also won a race in Northern Rhodesia (Zambia) that same year. His signature running style was starting from behind, a mark of confidence and supremacy. In 1954, Commonwealth and Empire Games in Vancouver, he finished sixth in the three miles. At the same games were Maboria Tesot (sixth in Javelin) and Chepkwony (seventh in the Six Miles). Two years later in Melbourne Olympics, Nyantika finished fifth in in his race. He finished in the same position in the 1958 Commonwealth Games in Cardiff, Wales, in 1958. STATE MEDALS After 1960 Olympics in Rome, President Kenyatta invited him to State House, a function which coincided with a state visits of Uganda’s President Milton Obote and Tanganyika’s Julius Nyerere. Kenyatta introduced him to visiting dignitaries, which really excited him. Queen Elizabeth invited him to Buckingham Palace and awarded him the MBE. Kenya’s second President Daniel arap Moi also awarded him Silver Star (SS). Kibaki also awarded him honorary doctorate, MBE and SS. CAREER HIGHLIGHTSDoB: 19311954 – Commonwealth Games – Vancouver, Canada1956- Olympic Games – Melbourne, Australia1958 – Commonwealth Games – Cardiff, Wales1960 – Olympic Games – RomeIsaack Omulo Okoth worked at The Standard Group in various positions between 1986 and April 2016 when he retired while holding the position of Senior Associate Editor (Sports). He was the winner of the Media Council of Kenya’s 2016 Annual Journalism Excellence Awards (AJEA) Sports Reporting category.