ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna does not understand his party constitution nor does he know what it means to be honourable, Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen has said. Murkomen was responding to Sifuna's statement that he "is a stranger and cannot represent rebel MPs Asha Jumwa and Suleiman Dori in ODM disciplinary process". Jumwa and Dori hired the Elgeyo Marakwet Senator to fight their expulsion from ODM. The two, in a letter copied to the ODM's National Governing Council, said there was a complete disregard of the constitution of the party in the manner and style the disciplinary committee arrived at the decision to expel them. More on this: Rebel MPs Jumwa, Dori hire Murkomen to fight ODM expulsion But Murkomen on Wednesday laughed off Sifuna's response saying it is unfortunate that he does not understand his party's constitution. He said the right to appeal is a basic constitutional right in all disciplinary proceedings. "The right of appeal is not only a manifest fact in any disciplinary proceedings but rather obvious under the Constitution and the rules of natural justice. As a matter of caution, we shall vigorously canvas this point which is now apparent to you as of contention at the relevant judicial and quasi-judicial bodies," Murkomen said. Sifuna had earlier said that Jumwa and Dori have drifted from the mother ship, adding that the matter remains an internal process between a party and its membership. "We strongly suggest that you and your clients take time to familiarise yourselves with the constitution and rules governing the ODM to save yourselves from such ignorant misapprehensions in future," Sifuna said. Murkomen referred Sifuna to ODM's constitution article 8.5.5 which reads, "Any party member under disciplinary process shall be entitled to represent him/herself in person or by an authorised representative or next friend." Read: Murkomen 'embarrassing' Jumwa and Dori, ODM says on appeal Also Read: Rebel MPs Jumwa, Dori hire Murkomen to fight ODM expulsion