A twenty-man committee is expected to table a report within 14 days on recommendations made to address the plight of nurses in Nairobi. Acting Health executive Charles Kerich said the committee was formed on Tuesday after a consultative meeting between the nurses and the Nairobi County Government. He said the committee will be sitting at least once a week. "We don't need a crisis to occur for us to solve all the issues. In the committee, we shall look into issues, tackle them, give timelines, make recommendations and submit them to the Nairobi County Public Service Board," Kerich told the Star on Wednesday. Secretary of Nairobi branch nurses' union Ediah Muruli said nurses had faith in Governor Mike Sonko's administration to address their grievances. "Even before the court had declared the strike illegal, Nairobi nurses had agreed to suspend the strike to give Sonko and his team the 48 hours he requested to have our allowances paid," Muruli said. Read: Reject nurses' push for pay rise, governors told However, she said if the money is not paid by Friday there might be a bigger problem. According to Kerich, some of the issues raised like promotions cannot be addressed immediately as the county needs to sit with the CPSB first for proper planning. It was revealed that the board lacked quorum because some of its members had retired. Kerich explained that certain issues raised by the nurses could not be solved when the board is not fully constituted. The county had advertised board positions that had vacancies. "In the meantime, there is groundwork that can be going on such as negotiations. We can also be identifying the people who need to be promoted and make recommendations to the board so that they can work with an adequate number," Kerich said. The nurses had suggested not having to wait till end month for their allowances to be included in their salaries. As a result, they requested special vouchers so that they can receive their allowances quickly. Kerich said the issue of special vouchers required consultation with the finance department for it to be done legally. Governor Sonko yesterday increased nurses' uniform and nursing allowances. Their annual uniform allowance of Sh10,000 was raised by Sh5,000 and nursing allowances were increased to Sh23,000 from Sh20,000 per annum. Click here for the latest political news.     