Struggling Kenyan Premier League side, Mount Kenya United have opened their doors to new talent as they seek to keep their under-threat top flight status. The club, who are marooned at the bottom of the league table with nine points from 14 matches, yesterday announced they will be recruiting new players from today with the possibility of signing them when the mid season transfer window opens next month. “We will be conducting trials from Tuesday to Thursday,” read a terse statement on one of the club’s social media pages. Last week coach Melis Medo said he is keen to bring in four new players to bolster his beleaguered squad. “This club need four players and we will be serious competitors in the league. I want a goalkeeper, two defenders and a striker and we will be good to go. The door is open to the players I signed at Sofapaka,” the American tactician disclosed. The players he took with him in his short stint at Sofapaka like striker John Avire and Cornelius Juma are unlikely to want to return to a club flirting with relegation unless they are given an offer they can’t refuse. However, their experienced teammate defender Humphrey Okoti has made his desires of leaving his current employers, Sofapaka. Okot is among the players likely to join Mount Kenya in their bid to dig themselves out of the relegation hole they currently find themselves in. Mount Kenya suffered their ninth defeat of the campaign when they were beaten 2-1 by Western Stima. With nine points, they are a point below the play-off spot they successfully negotiated last year to remain among the elite. Vihiga United, beaten at home in the relegation battle six-pointer against Posta Rangers, currently occupy that slot. Posta with their two consecutive victories have brought the smile back on the face of coach John Kamau as they move further from the dreaded zone. AFC Leopards remain in the bottom two after succumbing to their third straight loss since Andre Casa Mbugo took over. Ulinzi Stars were their conquerors this time round with Daniel Waweru’s strike in the first half giving them the 1-0 win. Leopards, like Vihiga, have ten points.