Thousands of youths and women have benefited from employment opportunity at the county department of environment. Governor Mike Sonko’s administration has recruited jobless youth in the regeneration of the Nairobi River, beautification of the capital and general cleaning of the entire city. On Wednesday, several youths who were interviewed on the project said governor Mike Sonko has really changed their lives through the employment. Susan Wairimu, a mother of four, who was employed to be part of the county beautification project, said her life has transformed for the few months she has been working with the county. Wairimu, who was initially doing menial jobs to earn a living, said she now has a stable source of income. “I have four children. Each kid with a different man. I was doing menial and dirty jobs to earn a living and raise my kids as a single mother. However, since joining the county government, I now have a stable source of income that has really helped me and my children,” she said. Read: Crime falls after Dandora youths engage in clean-up Sonko has pledged to transform Nairobi using the youth who were previously unemployed and were involved in criminal activities. Speaking in New York, United States, on the sidelines of the United Nations General Assembly conference on the role of cities in the global agenda, Sonko said the county government is focused on achieving its target of cleaner rivers. “There has been an increase in pollution of rivers in Nairobi due to increased discharge of commercial and domestic effluents, which has tremendously affected our rivers,” said Sonko. Therefore, this has adversely affected the water eco-system and reduced the usefulness of the waters within the County and downstream, a situation that calls for urgent intervention, he added. The Governor thanked President Uhuru Kenyatta and the Nairobi Regeneration Committee which he co-chairs with Tourism Cabinet Secretary Najib Balala for helping to clean the Nairobi River eco-system. Also read; Uhuru to Sonko: Hire youths to clean Nairobi, drop cash-hungry contractors Click here for the latest political news