Some 532 students who scored a mean grade A (plain) and A- (minus) in the 2018 Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education examination have joined the Equity Bank’s paid internship programme. They include 160 scholars from the Wings to Fly programme and 363 top students from across the country. The students have been posted as interns to various Equity Bank branches across Kenya. During their internship costing Sh393 million, the students will benefit from structured mentorship and training to build work ethics and leadership skills. Additionally, the interns will have an opportunity to receive support to secure scholarships in leading global universities. To date, 14,524 top students have joined the Equity Leaders Programme, with 12,256 qualifying for the university with 489 securing admissions and scholarships to global universities. Equity Group Holdings Managing Director and CEO Dr James Mwangi said, “When I look at you, I see the face of Kenya, very diverse. As you begin this transition from secondary school to the work environment and eventually to institutions of higher learning, it is important for you to realize that our expectations of you are very high. You are the future leaders of this country.” He further urged the students to be agents of change and build networks that can address national challenges. Read: Equity Bank sponsors 1,000 students in Wings to Fly scholarship “You are starting a journey of life together with other gifted Kenyans of the same age group. This will be your biggest asset in your career, because out of this group will emerge, captains of industry, leaders of business, the public service and other sectors,” he said. He advised the students to embrace competition among themselves and set goals that are ambitious and achievable. “I urge you to pursue a career path that matches your personality and one that you are passionate about. Compete against yourself, and continuously set goals that are ambitious and attainable,” Mwangi said to the students during the induction and commissioning. The sponsored students were grateful and shared their journey through the Wings to Fly programme. “I joined the Wings to Fly programme in Form One. When I was in high school, I faced some challenges which led to my grades dropping in Form one and two. Dr Mwangi sent me a success card with a letter encouraging me, in which he had written ‘I forgive you for the past laxity, forgive yourself and work on your studies’. These words motivated me and I regained my focus and power to sit KCSE. Today, I am part of the Equity Leadership Programme," Tiberious Mogendi from Chania High School said. “After my KCPE results were released, I didn’t know my fate, I had no one. There was no hope, no future for me. But Equity Group came to my rescue through the Wings to Fly programme,” Ann Alwala from Bunyore Girls Secondary said. In November 2018, the bank announced its net profit had increased by 8 per cent to Sh 15.8 billion in the third quarter ending September 30. The growth was up from Sh 14.6 billion reported within the same period last year. Mwangi attributed the growth to higher interest income and reduced costs. More on this: Equity Bank nets Sh15.8bn profit in 2018/19 third quarter results Click here for the latest political news.  