Much will be at stake at Moi Stadium, Kasarani when two former champions collide as the quest for the Kenyan Premier League title intensifies today . Holders Gor Mahia and the team that stopped them from registering a record four successive championship, Tusker, go head to head looking to keep pace with leaders Bandari. “It’s another difficult game for us given that we hardly had enough time to train unlike our opponents but we will fight hard for the three points to keep our hopes of winning the league again alive,” said K’Ogalo assistant coach Zedekiah Otieno. K’Ogalo were busy in the CAF Confederations Cup when the dockers moved five points clear with 26 from 13 games and victory over Robert Matano’s side will see them push on with their bid for a third league title in a row. Gor are a point ahead of Tusker, who remain firmly in the title frame having found their footing since Matano arrived to end the turbulent reign of Ugandan George Nsiimbe. With a trip to Algeria set for tomorrow, coach Hassan Oktay may be tempted to rest key players. Defender Joash Onyango though will be back in the team having recovered from a rib injury received in the stalemate against Western Stima a week ago. Then Oktay rued his decision to exclude the likes of Ken Muguna and Francis Kahata from the first 11— a move the Cypriot is unlikely to repeat in pursuit of Bandari. Regardless of the squad he puts out, Gor will find a tough opponent in Tusker who also harbour ambitions of dethroning them. Jackson Macharia and Boniface Muchiri have been the catalysts of the brewers’ resurgence and will be relied upon again. But it is at the back that the brewers will need to be vigilant to prevent the lethal K’Ogalo attackers from causing damage. Marlon Tangauzi has emerged as a reliable center half and it will be his responsibility and that of Justin Omary to keep the shackles on Rwandan marksman Jacques Tuyisenge. With Dennis Oliech allegedly at loggerheads with club officials, Nicholas Kipkirui or Francis Mustapha may be employed in attack alongside Tuyisenge.