 On January 24, ODM's National
Executive Council recommended the expulsion of eight members after an
extraordinary meeting in Nairobi. The most prominent legislators in the list included Malindi MP
Aisha Jumwa and her Msambweni counterpart Suleiman Dori. The extraordinary meeting had been convened to give the affected
members a chance to defend themselves. After appearing before the committee, Jumwa addressed the press
and thanked party leader Raila Odinga for giving her and her colleagues the
opportunity to defend themselves. She said a lot of things had happened, but under the spirit of the
handshake, there was nothing too terrible not to be forgiven. “Ni kitu gani ambacho hivi sasa kitakuwa na
ugumu wa kusameheka kama mengi ilisameheka? Kuna wale watu waliumia, kuna watu
waliuwawa, kuna watu walichapisha Raila na yote yalisahemeka.” This loosely translates to, “What can be so bad not to be forgiven
at this time? There are people who got hurt, other died, others swore-in Raila
and all this has been forgiven.” Jumwa found herself on the wrong side of her party, ODM, after
openly supporting Deputy President William Ruto’s 2022 presidential bid. She,
however, defended the move, saying the handshake between President Uhuru
Kenyatta and her party leader Raila Odinga had been assumed to give members
permission to associate with the ruling party, Jubilee. In any case, Jumwa apologised for her misstep. That did not appear to be enough because the decision to expel her
along with other members was maintained. The decision puts Jumwa and her counterparts in the unpleasant
position of possibly having to seek re-election. But isn’t there a better way of handling the situation? Does ODM
really have to kick Jumwa out over a mistake that she has asked forgiveness
for? Let’s not forget that Jumwa was one of the strongest campaigners
for Raila in the run up to the 2017 election, and to treat her mistake as
unforgivable is not what her party leader stands for. Raila is a perfect
example of a person who has mastered the art of being a peacemaker. He is able
to set aside differences with perceived enemies for the greater good — unity. There are many theories as to why Raila has been a successful
politician. Some posit he has strong, unyielding support outside his backyard —
he can go to the negotiating table with at least three vote blocs behind him:
Coast, Western and his own Nyanza region. Other leaders from his Nasa fold are thought to be able to only
secure votes from their backyard. Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang’ula mostly
have a backing in their Western region, while Kalonzo Musyoka has a following
in his Eastern backyard. Even then, the leaders face wrangles from leaders who want to
declare themselves the kingpin. In Ukambani, Kalonzo has faced opposition from
governors in the region who seem to have teamed up to counter his dominance. In
Western, it is not clear who speaks for the Mulembe nation, with each leader
convinced they are the kingpin. There is another theory that Raila is a good political maneuverer
and schemer and while that might be true, there is a bigger reason that has
made him surmount several challenges during his life in politics - his capacity
for reconciliation. Raila has fallen out with many politicians, but reconciled with
them for the greater good.  RAILA AND MOI Raila’s expertise as a peacemaker first came to the fore in the
1997, when he supported President Daniel Moi and his party, Kanu. This was despite
slightly over a decade earlier being detained without trial for close to six
years. This was after he was accused of being among those behind the attempted
coup in 1982. Raila joined Moi’s Cabinet as Energy minister in
2001, and his party NDP was absorbed into Kanu the following year, with him
becoming secretary general. There was, however, another fall out between Moi
and Raila after the former urged Kanu to support Uhuru for the presidency, killing Odinga’s hopes of getting
the ticket. Raila, along with other Kanu members, abandoned
Kanu and formed the Liberal Democratic Party, which joined a coalition of
several parties, the National Alliance of Kenya, to form Narc under the leadership of Kibaki. The coalition
went on to win the 2002 election. In recent times, Raila has appeared to reconcile
with Moi, and he visited him at his Kabarak home last year.  RAILA AND KIBAKI Another time Raila’s genius for reconciliation
has come to the fore is with Kibaki. Soon after Narc won the 2002 election,
cracks started to emerge, with Raila’s LDP accusing Kibaki of backtracking on a
pre-election agreement that promised to share power equitably between LDP and
NAK. The rift grew in 2003 following differences over
the constitutional review, particularly on the issue of creation of a strong
Prime Minister position, which Kibaki and his supporters backtracked on. This
led to the Orange and Banana divide on the draft constitution, with Raila’s
campaign against it carrying the day. Shortly after, Kibaki dismissed his entire
Cabinet and reconstituted it without Raila. The division widened and NARC
finally collapsed.  In the lead up to the 2007 election, Raila and
Kibaki formed new parties - ODM and PNU. The aftermath of the 2007 election
was a sad time in Kenya’s history with post-election violence after Raila
rejected the controversial results which were hurriedly announced. The peacemaker in Raila was brought to the fore
when he and Kibaki agreed to set aside their differences for the good of the
country. The two signed a peace accord in 2008. Raila and Kibaki then got a divided Parliament to understand that
the country was bigger than individuals and MPs unanimously approved the
National Accord and Reconciliation Bill, 2008, which gave way for the Grand
Coalition.  RAILA AND UHURU KENYATTA Raila’s most recent show of his peacemaker expertise was on March 9 when he and
President Uhuru Kenyatta shocked Kenya by emerging from a closed-door meeting
and having the now famous handshake. This, just slightly a month after Raila was sworn-in as the
People’s President after rejecting the results of the repeat 2017 election. Before the handshake, it appeared the country was headed for a
split, with talk of secession rising. There was a call for the creation of
People’s Assemblies to counter County Assemblies and Kenyans were buying into
the idea. Then came the handshake, and thereafter, there has been a show of
unity between Uhuru and Raila. If Raila has been able to forgive people who have committed what
appear to be much bigger ‘sins’ against him, how hard can it be to make amends
with Jumwa, Dori and other ODM members who have erred in much smaller ways? Jumwa and Dori are much smaller politicians when compared with Uhuru,
Kibaki and Moi. However, the MPs are important to their voters. Is it really worth it kicking them out and conducting fresh
elections or might it be better to take the magnanimous view and forgive them
and start a new journey?   The writer is theInterim Secretary General Umoja Summit Party of Kenya