County bosses do not want to serve more than two terms, Council of Governors’chairman Wycliffe Oparanya has said. The governors’ main interest in the proposed referendum is devolution, Kakmega boss Oparanya said. He said the 47 governors will push to ensure that allocation tocounties units is raised from the current 15 per cent to 50 per cent. “What we want is to have more resources devolved to the grassroots to effectively fight rampant poverty,” he said on Saturday. The governor spoke at his Emabole home during his homecoming after being elected CoG chairman. The governor dismissed as unfounded talk that governors want the two five-year term limits removed to allow them to stay in power beyond the term prescribed by the Constitution. “Ten years is enough if you’re doing your work well. I am doing my final term and want to move to a senior seat thereafter,” he said. Oparanya has declared to run for the presidency in 2022. He criticised Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka for calling for scraping term limit for the president, terming it “insensitive” to people’s interests. Bungoma Governor Wycliffe Wangamati and Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala, MPs Ayub Savula (Lugari), Emmanuel Wangwe (Navakholo), Ben Washiali (Mumias East), John Waluke (Sirisia), Tindi Mwale (Butere) and Bernard Shinal (Ikolomani) attended. The governor said those who lose in presidential contests should accept defeat and form the official opposition in Parliament. He called for reintroduction of the office of the Leader of the Opposition. “Kenya needs a stronger opposition and I support the idea of having official leaders of Opposition with a proper budget to check the excesses of the executive,” Oparanya said. He asked residents from Western Kenya to return home for the August national census. He said allocation of national resources is based on population and people must seek services from where they will be counted. “If you are a Luhya and decide to be counted in Nairobi or elsewhere, that is where you will seek services because that is where your share of the national cake will have been taken,” he said. “I was in charge of the 2009 census and I know what challenges the exercise faced. I am willing to share experiences with the team that is going to lead this census,” he said.