Kilifi County Commissioner Magu Mutindika has ordered arrest and prosecution of fake pastors and traditional medicine men for being behind the killings of people suspected to be practising witchcraft. Mutindika said the purported 'prophets' and medicine men have been inciting the public to commit murder on suspected witches. In Rabai sub-county, 29 people have been lynched in the last two years over suspicion of practising witchcraft. The county boss said the number is alarming. He spoke during a sensitization workshop organized by Haki Yetu organization aimed at deliberating how to end the killing of elders in Rabai and other parts of the county. Read: Tanzania hunts child abductors over suspected witchcraft-linked killings The meeting was attended by seven chiefs, 16 assistant chiefs, Rabai OCPD David Maina and John Lelei, the area DCI. “Most of the medicine men come from Tanzania to conduct the fake rituals, members of the public should be on high alert to avoid being victims of their propaganda that has led to hate and bloodshed,’’ he said. Mutindika said medicine men demand money from families to conduct special prayers so as to drive away evil and reveal the identity of the suspected witch. The County Commissioner said such backward ideologies should stop and warned the perpetrators their days were numbered. He said it was shocking to hear such deaths in Rabai despite the fact that it’s one of the areas where Christianity began. Rabai Mission was established by a European missionary, Dr Ludwig Kraft in 1846. Haki Yetu director Fr Gabriel Dolan, who is a renowned human right activist, urged the government to intervene and punish the fake pastors who were inciting the public to kill people on allegations of witchcraft. The DCIO on his part said their investigations have revealed that some murder victims were told to choose to commit suicide by hanging or taking poison before they are killed. The cases are also common in Ganze, Magarini and Malindi though the numbers have gone down lately. Also read: Ganze MP urges protection of local healers Click here for the latest political news.  