In the now famous blockbuster Black
Panther movie in which a plethora of black actors took the world by storm by showing
how great African civilisations could have been without the rude interruption
by imperialism and the slave trade, the rape of Africa's works of art by the
West is dramatically put on the screen. The message to the West is simple: Bring
Africa's works of art back to Africa or we shall come for them. It is high time
we vindicated the Black Panther actors. Some time in the 1970s the people of
Asante in Ghana waged a successful battle against one of the museums in Britain
to return their sacred stool to Ghana. The story made it in the front page of
Time magazine. The battle should have been turned into an all out war. But it
was not. Africa let that moment pass like a whisper in our history. Currently a new frontier of war to get
back Africa's stolen works of art has been opened in Europe. It has sent
European thieves, nicknamed art treasure hunters, panicking. Stories abound in
newspapers regarding how the auction market for Africa's art is bound to
collapse as people are bound to be shy to expose their "collections"
else they be asked to return the art to Africa. But the question is simple: from
whence cameth the art? The so-called art collectors insist that
they "collected" the art. But collected from where and when? Works of
art are not wild berries, which are simply collected from the woods: they take
time, skill, tradition and careful nurturing to reach a stage where thieves
begin to "collect" them. If you do find yourself in the city of
Nairobi and you visit Serena Hotel, you will find beautiful replicas of works
of art from the ancient kingdom of Benin. Each replica tells a story regarding
what it is, what it signifies and when it was made. The elaborate notes conclude
with one sad refrain: All replicas represent their originals in western
museums, particularly in Britain and France, Africa's two most vicious former
colonial powers. For all intents and purposes, colonialism
is now over but neo-colonialism is still with us. It is because of this neo-colonialism
that African governments are still apologetic about the barbaric behaviour of
our colonial masters. In broad daylight Serena can display replicas of
beautiful African works of art, tell us that the originals are in western
museums and we still fail to go there and get our wealth back. The former kings of Benin fought gallant
wars against both the French and the British to protect their civilisation
against these barbarians. It is said that at one time one of the Benin kings
decided to burn down his kingdom rather than allow the French to overrun them
and steel their treasures. That is what I call chivalry reinforced by heroic
pride, the real essence of an African Wakanda. Much more recently, in our own museum here
in Kenya, we have never looked into what the British took back to Britain just
before Independence. Some of our people have been so naive in the past when
they give away our material culture to so-called "researchers" from
the West in exchange for profuse "thank yous". It is time the African Union woke up and
mounted a systematic campaign to get back our works of art. It is also
important for our Africana sections in our niversity libraries now to be turned
partly into archives. Not everything can fit into our national archive. When I was a student at Makerere
University in Kampala in the late sixties, there was a man called Paul Twitty
from the US Information Service who used to come to the campus and collect any
piece of literature he came across, including handbills laid on dining hall
tables announcing for some meetings.  Some of us thought Twitty was an eccentric of
some sort. The truth, however, is that Twitty' s collections may today be
part and parcel of some "rare collections" in an American museum or
archive. There have just been too many Paul
Twitties collecting versions of Nyatitis, orutus, sukutis, etc in our
societies. We should appreciate and protect our works of art and material
cultures even before anybody comes around to eye them. Further, let me ask one
question: How many museums has Kenya built since independence except the main
one in Nairobi? That says a lot about how much attention we give to each
generation as it creates works of art and material culture. But let me get back to campaigning to get
our works of art back. Ok supposing we accepted the fact that the fellow who
says he is going to auction his work of art has really done nothing wrong: he
is simply selling his property. But that argument only holds water at its face
value. There is more to it than just "selling one's property." The
issue of "the rules of origin" then comes in, very much akin to
issues related to money laundering. When one goes to the bank with Sh100
million in cash the bank is likely to raise an alarm these days. Where did the
cash come from? A fellow who brings out some old artwork from Benin valued at $200
at age 25 needs to explain from whence cometh the works of art? Even were he to
have some certificates issued by a known "art dealer" the question
needs to be asked how the works of art left Benin in the first place. Otherwise
such persons need to be known   for who they really are smugglers,
art traffickers, cultural imperialists and knaves of the worst type.  