The Education ministry is seeking ‘leftover’ funds from other ministries to tackle the congestion and resource shortage caused by the high Form 1 admissions. The government has promised a 100 per cent transition from primary to secondary school. Ninety-two per cent of last year’s KCPE exam candidates have joined high schools. This has led to a population surge and congestion. The population has risen from last year’s 2.9 million learners to 3.1 million. In many schools, staff, classes, labs and boarding facilities are inadequate. The limited resources have hurt learning. Some schools have surpassed the recommended teacher-student ratio of 1:40 to 1:60. In dire situations, it is 1:80. Some students learn on verandas and others under trees. Some institutions have resorted to three-decker beds. Most schools had two-deck bunk beds. The problems could undermine the quality of education if not checked. Read: Lack of space dims government's plan for 100% form one transition More: Crisis looms as 100% transition to high schools threatens learning Last Thursday, CS Amina Mohamed acknowledged that the ministry is cash-strapped and needs help. She told the National Assembly Education committee that her ministry requires swift strategic interventions to fix the problems. The CS said the inadequate infrastructure development is a major problem. Only Sh1.5 billion is available for development, against a demand of Sh7.5 billion. “I’ve called on Cabinet colleagues, since we’re coming to the end of the financial year, to look at their budgets and see if there are areas they can save some resources and provide them to us ... But we’re not going to wait. We’re going to start with what we have,” Amina told the MPs. Head teachers say the extraordinary enrolments could lead to high levels of stress and anxiety among students, warning that the situation could be untenable. Kenya Secondary School Heads Association chairman Indimuli Kahi wants the government to provide adequate infrastructure, teachers, beds and desks to ease the congestion. In the last financial year, the government improved infrastructure in 864 institutions. The goal was to make room for the huge admissions. It focussed on boarding facilities, classrooms, dining halls and laboratories. The ministry built 700 classrooms in secondary schools. Ministry guidelines say a standard classroom should accommodate 40 students. This means new classes can hold only 28,000 new learners. Some 989 new secondary schools have been built in one year, pushing the number of schools to 10,655, from 9,966. “This is too little for sustainability. The ministry must do more if schools are to meet standards in teaching and learning,” Kahi told the Star yesterday. Read also: 100% transition plan impossible – Knut Click here for the latest political news