Wajir MCAs have been urged to not to allow next week’s ruling on Governor Mohamed Abdi’s petition distract them from their mandate. Speaker Ibrahim Yakub yesterday said the ward representatives should remain focused on their oversight role. Abdi’s election was challenged by former Governor Ahmed Abdullahi and aspirant Ahmed Muhumed. In April last year, the Court of Appeal upheld the High Court’s decision to nullify the election over lack of required academic credentials to vie for the position. Abdi moved to the Supreme Court to overturn the decision. The apex court will deliver its ruling on Thursday next week. “The ruling should not distract the assembly from discharging its duties. We know the political environment is charged but members must remain focused,” Yakub said. He was speaking to reporters in Wajir town. He said the case is closely being watched by many, including residents and Kenyans at large. “Whichever way it goes, it will be a test for the unity and maturity of the assembly. Members must rise to the occasion and show leadership by conducting business in a bipartisan manner.” Yakub said he was confident the MCAs will not be swayed by political rhetoric. The assembly hit headlines in 2017 for wrong reasons after ward representatives engaged in fistfights over appointments to the county public service board. Last year, three MCAs were arrested for questioning over chaos that rocked the assembly. Those arrested were Shalle Bule (Hadado), Abdi Ahmed (Wagalla/Ganyure) and Osman Muktar (Arbajahan/Griftu). They stand-off was caused after Yakub failed to announce Ahmed as the Minority party’s representative at the Wajir County Assembly Service Board. Yakub downplayed the fights, saying it was “water under the bridge.” He urged members to recommit and rededicate themselves to making devolution work. “We must acknowledge that the foundation has been laid and it is upon us to safeguard and advance the devolved system of government,” he said. He warned the executive against frustrating committees in carrying out their oversight mandate. He said the Public Accounts and Investment Committees has often been denied access to information. “We’ll not tolerate denial of access to information because no one can run away from accountability,” Yakub said.