Kitui MCAs are inspecting and auditing development projects implemented since Governor Charity Ngilu took over. The tour began on Wednesday and will run for two weeks. The county assembly resumed sittings on February 12 after their long Christmas holiday. They adjourned the sittings on Tuesday. Its members have accused Ngilu of favouring some wards. The county has 40 wards and 54 MCAs, 14 of them nominated. The MCAs visited the Ngomeni Rock water catchment dam and Mitamisyi dispensary. Another team was in Tseikuru. The reps told the public at Mitamisyi trading centre that they have a constitutional mandate to oversight the executive. Majority leader Peter Kilonzo (Athi ward) led the delegation. “We’re not at war with the county executive led by Governor Ngilu. When we do our oversight work and question how things are being done, that should not be misconstrued as political warfare,” Kilonzo said. Ngilu and her allies have accused Wiper MCAs of undermining her administration on the instruction of party leader Kalonzo Musyoka. But the MCAs dismissed the claims, saying they do not need instructions from Musyoka to perform their roles. Ngilu was elected on the Narc ticket. Wiper controls the assembly. Ahead of the last election, Ngilu and Kalonzo agreed to work together to promote development. Their relation has strained in recent months, with the governor ganging up with her Machakos and Makueni counterparts Alfred Mutua and Kivutha Kibwana. This has sparked claims of renewed political rivalry. At Mitamisyi, Kilonzo said the assembly will continue pointing out the ills of the executive to ensure it delivers on its mandate. Things must be done in the right way and the law followed to the letter, he said. Kilonzo said the MCAs and Ngilu “are joined at the hip” and are expected to execute their mandate perfectly, or all will be punished voters. “We have to do our part and ensure development is realised, lest we, without exception, face the wrath of the electorate,” he said. Stephen Kivunzi (Kyuso) said they will ensure county funds are used well. “Leaders have to prove their worth by performing their constitutional mandates,” he said. Tseikuru MCA Boniface Kasina said they should not be blamed if the executive fails to implement development projects. Last December, Kasina successfully moved a motion to impeach Treasury executive Mary Nguli for alleged abuse of office, misconduct and violation of procurement procedures. The High Court halted the impeachment.  