Former Kasipul MP Oyugi Magwanga on Tuesday told Homa Bay residents to maintain peace after the Supreme Court ruling on the disputed election of Governor Cyprian Awiti. Magwanga successfully petitioned the re-election of Awiti in August 2017. Awiti then moved to Kisumu Court of Appeal which upheld the lower courts decision which nullified his win. “As people of Homa Bay,we must maintain and live in peace as brothers as before despite the tomorrow’s Supreme Court outcome, we still have along way to go and to develop our county,” Magwanga said. There is emerging differences especially online between the supporters of the two leaders. They have been using abusive words on each other. “It is obvious that the ruling will go either way but life must continue, we have built our county for so long and there is no need of destroying it just because of an election,” added Magwanga who ran as an independent candidate. Homa Bay High Court Judge Joseph Karanja ruled that the last governor election was marred with illegalities and irregularities rendering it not free and fair. It was also noted that the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission released two sets of results one declaring Awiti as the winner while the other declaring Magwanga as the duly elected governor. Justice for Mercy Director Kennedy Okoth has also said people must live in peace and life must continue after the ruling. “I know there will be one side which will be celebrating and the other side which will be sad, but we must continue with our normal lives,” Okoth said. The organisation together with the provincial administration, youth leaders, religious leaders, civil societies and members of the public have already carried out civic education across the county a head of the ruling. County Commissioner Irungu Macharia said he will accord security to whichever team that will be celebrating as long as it does not interfere with the losing team. During the last ODM nominations, where Magwanga's team felt shortchanged, the county and especially Homa Bay town was marred with chaos which forced security personnel to intervene. “Homa Bay is our county and we must ensure that we protect it at all costs,elections come and go but life must continue as usual,” Macharia said. Meanwhile civil societies under the Bunge la Wenye Nchi umbrella are collecting signatures in a petition seeking to disband the Homa Bay government and put it under the national government for at least 90 days before fresh elections could be held. They want President Uhuru Kenyatta to appoint an independent body to run the county for the meantime for efficient service delivery. According to the organisation speaker Walter Opiyo,they have already collected over 30,000 signatures from voters who are supporting the initiative. They blame the current leadership of poor service delivery,corruption, failed and stalled projects and mismanagement of public funds. Awiti has however dared anyone with evidence linking his administration with corruption to report to relevant authority so that adequate action could be taken.