African Union envoy Raila Odinga on Wednesday afternoon held talks with DRC President Felix Tshisekedi at his Capitol Hill office in Nairobi. Tshisekedi is on a maiden tour of three Africa countries and was in Angola before coming to Nairobi then head to the Congo Republic. The DRC president arrived on Wednesday afternoon where he was received by Foreign affairs CS Monica Juma and Nairobi governor Mike Sonko at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport.  ODM party leader Raila Odinga when he met DRC President Felix Tshisekedi at Capitol Hill Nairobi./COURTESY Tshisekedi is scheduled to meet Uhuru for a bilateral engagement later on. More on this: DRC president Tshisekedi arrives in Nairobi for talks with Uhuru "Held talks with President Felix Tshisekedi of the DRC who is visiting the country focusing on areas of mutual interest," Raila said in a tweet. Raila said they had discussions on cooperation with an emphasis on the role of infrastructure in development on the continent.  ODM party leader Raila Odinga when he met DRC President Felix Tshisekedi at Capitol Hill Nairobi./COURTESY As an envoy of infrastructure, Raila is expected to pay particular attention to the missing links along the transnational highway corridors identified as part of the Trans-African Highways Network. This is with a view to facilitating their development and modernisation. He is also expected to focus on the continental high-speed train, which is one of the flagship projects of the First Ten-Year Implementation Plan of Agenda 2063, in the context of the relevant African Union decisions. Uhuru and Raila were held behind-the-scenes lobbying for the region to accept Tshisekedi’s election as the DRC president. The two hitherto bitter political rivals-turned-friends played key a role in convincing the East African Community as well as SADC to recognise Tshesekedi’s disputed election victory. More on this: Uhuru, Raila, Kalonzo attend Tshisekedi's inauguration in DRC Click here for the latest political news,