Commuters in Meru were yesterday stranded as matatu operators went on strike over “unhealthy competition by unroadworthy vehicles”. They were protesting over “police failure” to crack down on non-compliant vehicles. Most businesses in the town were closed for fear of the unknown. Travellers, who spoke to the Star, said they arrived in town as early as 3am but there were no matatus. The worst-hit were the sick, students, those supposed to attend court hearings and those who work in towns like Isiolo, Nanyuki, Nairobi, Chuka in Tharaka Nithi and Embu. County commissioner Allan Machari and other government officers met the matatu and taxi officials but it was not clear what they had agreed by press time. On Friday, taxi and matatu operators clashed over the Tuskys terminus in the town. The matatu operators invaded and occupied the stage. The taxi operators protested. Security officers, led by Imenti North police boss Peter Kimani, were called in to resolve the dispute. The taxi operators said they were allocated the spot by former Governor Peter Munya. They claimed there was a plot to kick them out of the stage. Some claimed Governor Kiraitu Murungi wants them to vacate so that he can build kiosks. Last week, Matatu Owners Association secretary Joseph Bundi accused the NTSA and police of creating unhealthy competition by allowing Probox and Sienta cars to operate as matatus. “Vehicles which should be operating as taxis are plying our routes and pushing us out of business. We have given the government until Monday [yesterday] to remove these vehicles from the roads, failing which we will withdraw our services,” he said. Bundi said they had tried to engage the county commissioner, the police commander, traffic police and the NTSA, but non-compliant vehicles are still operating. “We are not against those operating taxis as required by law. However, there are many vehicles allocated termini in various towns and ferrying passengers across the county. We want a level playground,” he said. Taxi driver Kaimenyi Kinoti on Friday said it was agreed that taxis should continue operating from there. He urged the governor and the police boss to come up with a permanent solution to end the rivalry. Kimani said despite the turf wars, peace and order must be maintained. He said most taxis have not complied with the traffic rules. The police boss said the decision to remove the taxis was reached at during the Town’s Management Board meeting. “They will be operating from another area. This time we are firm and we shall not relent. It is upon them to decide whether they will do taxi business or move to court,” he said.