Former Kenya Airports Authority MD Kangungo Yatich yesterday said that he is paid for doing nothing because of a feud with the bosses. Yatich told a Nairobi court that he has been frustrated and subjected to psychological torture since his demotion to a non-existent office 18 months ago. He served as acting MD before being redeployed as manager for special projects. The former KAA boss said he was given an office near a toilet and that no duties have been assigned to him. “KAA intentionally directed me to an office near a toilet and bereft of dignity and scornful to my status as a senior manager,” he said in affidavits. Yatich said he has had a meeting with the MD but nothing has changed. “I’ve been totally exempted and kept in the dark about management meetings despite the fact that I’m a senior manager,” he said. “I have only been receiving newspapers, plenty of tea and my salary.” He said the frustrations were a result of a witch hunt by board members and a show of open discrimination and bias. He wants the court to bar the board from carrying out disciplinary proceedings against him for allegedly addressing staff who were protesting the proposed takeover of Jomo Kenyatta International Airport by Kenya Airways. His lawyer Danstan Omari asked the court to stop the disciplinary session which was scheduled for today. “KAA is scheduled to preside over a disciplinary session on February 27 at 2pm over my purported conduct,” Yatich’s affidavit says. The court granted the request. The management wrote to Yatich on February 6 seeking to know why he should not be punished for allegedly being in breach of the human resource manual. “Soon thereafter, I was summoned via a phone call by the DCI at JKIA to respond to unknown complaints made by masked persons,” he said. The former MD said he honoured the invitation. He said he has no confidence in the composition of the disciplinary committee and was fearful that the open bias against him will not lead to a fair outcome. Yatich was summoned by police over accusations of inciting workers opposed to the takeover plans. The group said the takeover would harm the agency because it gets 80 per cent of revenue from JKIA.