The Treasury is exploring ways of raising more money to cover falling donor funding in the health sector. The country has entered a transition phase and will lose some of the donor funds in five years because of a flourishing economy, Health CAS Rashid Aman said. “We are having discussions at very high levels at the Treasury to see how we will go about it,” he said in Nairobi yesterday after opening the Kenya Medical Research Institute Annual Scientific and Health conference. Donors fund about 24 per cent of Kenya’s health budget. However, HIV, TB and malaria programmes are almost entirely financed by foreign donors. Aman said they are still working out how much Kenya requires to fill the gap created by declining donor support. “The impact is huge because most of our HIV response is from development partners. Vaccines are also highly subsidised,” he said. The intention of donor assistance for health has always been to develop systems that can be owned, funded and operated locally. The transition from donor-funded to national ownership often proves difficult for developing countries. “We will go through the gaps and there’s immunisation, HIV, TB, malaria and family planning. Much of research at Kemri is also supported by partners,” he said. While donors have different ways of determining how countries transition from funding, three major health financiers - Gavi, the Global Fund, and the World Bank - share similar approaches. Gavi, which finances nearly 80 per cent of Kenya’s vaccines budget, withdraws support progressively when a country’s Gross National Income per capita exceeds Sh158,000. Kenya rebased its economy three years ago, pushing the GNI to Sh135,000 per capita. Kenya began to transition out of Gavi support in 2017, and the 10-year process will accelerate in 2022. In December 2017, the Results for Development Institute prepared a transition study for Kenya at the request of the Global Fund. The projection showed that Kenya needs an additional Sh36 billion annually for HIV, TB, and malaria by 2022. “Kenya needs not replace donor funding dollar-for-dollar,” the report reads. It suggests bundling of health programmes instead.