Battle royale is expected as the much talked about national cross country trials turn into action at the Eldoret Sports Club this afternoon. The event is being used by Athletics Kenya to select a team to represent the country at the 2019 World Cross Country Championships in Aarhus, Denmark, next month. About AK president, in the Team Kenya to do duty in Europe on March 30. All the participants were in high spirits as they were taken through an anti-doping seminar at an Eldoret Hotel conducted by the Anti-Doping Agency of Kenya. All the 16 AK affiliates are expected to line up at the starting line with Kenya Wildlife Service and Refugee teams making their debut at the national show. Double world cross country champion Geoffrey Kamworor remains the man to beat as he seeks a chance to win the world title for a third time as he and 2015 world 3,000m steeplechase champion Hyvin Kiyeng lead the National Police Service. Kamworor, the 2017 New York City Marathon champion, won the Police title for the sixth time a month ago but has a task ahead as he comes up against some upstarts who have graduated from the junior ranks after dominant displays. North Rift’s Rhonex Kipruto, the reigning world under-20 10,000m champion, world under 18 3,000m bronze medalist Stanley Waithaka from Central and Commonwealth games 5,000m bronze medalist Edward Zakayo have vowed to be on the plane to Aarhus. Kiyeng will be chasing the national title against Kenya Defence Forces’ Hellen Obiri who has dominated in major races across the world. Others on the list include former Africa cross country runner Beatrice Mutai from South Rift among others. While opening the anti-doping seminar in Eldoret, AK president General Jack Tuwei said they are focused on devolving the championships and confirmed the championships will head to Kisii next year. “We want to make sure we host national championships across the country. This will make athletes traverse the country to ensure we promote sports tourism,” said Tuwei adding that they are taking athletics to the people. Reigning World U-18 3,000m silver medalist Lydia Jeruto, headlines the Junior women’s 6km among other upstarts in the first competitive race at the championships. Kids athletics will curtain raise the championships at 12pm before the official races start at 2pm with the final team expected to be named at 5pm.