Interior CS Fred Matiangi has ordered a probe into incidences of double licensing of vehicles by National Transport and Safety Authority. The order came after the CS met with the newly constituted board amid efforts to restore sanity at the authority. He said it was unfortunate that such improprieties had been reported at the State agency in the recent past. "Any individual found culpable of having flouted the formal licensing procedures will not be spared or pardoned," he said. Matiangi said investigations against individuals suspected of engaging in duplication of number plates and fraudulent registration of vehicles are at an advanced stage. In reference to the Dusit terror attack, The CS said such irregularities have a ripple effect on our national security. NTSA was put on the spot after a car with the same registration number as that of used by the attackers at Dusit was found in Kitengela. Read: Car with same number Plate as that in Dusit attack impounded in Kajiado Matiang'i said the syndicate at NTSA has eaten into the country’s overall revenue collection target. The CS urged the board to make a habit of getting out of the office to gather first-hand information on the issuance of car plates, issuance and renewal of driving licenses, inspection of vehicles among other operations. He also directed the board to conduct an in-depth evaluation of the authority so as to ensure it is fit for purpose and align its operations with the Government’s efforts of establishing a safe road transport system. The CS tasked the new board with ensuring a reduction of traffic-related deaths by 50 per cent this year and ultimately sustain near zero deaths. Read also: CS Matiang’i promises grand cleanup of NTSA “Honest and loyal leadership is what Kenyans are demanding. You must be directly accountable to them by enforcing all the laws ruthlessly and applying the standards without compromising,” he said. Matiang'i added, “Our statistics on road accidents do not reflect the number of roadworthy vehicles currently registered in our systems. These discrepancies imply that there could be several unroadworthy vehicles operating after passing our inspection tests irregularly". Click here for the latest political news