A Senate committee has accused the government of failing to implement a report on the Solai Dam tragedy that killed 48 people on May 9, 2018. An Ad hoc committee on the Solai Dam tragedy chaired by Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jnr visited the area on Monday accompanied by senators from various House committees. They said it was sad that the owner of the killer dam was still walking free. "It is such a disappointment that the report has not been implemented. We will push government agencies to implement it so that justice can be served to the victims of the tragedy," Kilonzo said. He said the owner of the dam should not use the cases in court as a scapegoat. Mutula said the victims must be compensated as recommended by the Senate committee. Similar sentiments were echoed by Nandi Senator Samson Cherargei who is also the chairman of the Legal and Justice Committee. He said the Senate will not relent in ensuring full implementation of the report. “As the Chair Legal and Justice Committee I will ensure that the recommendations of the Ad hoc committee that was chaired by Senator Mutula are implemented to the full stop,” Cherargei said. Read: MCA remanded over Solai dam compensation chaos Narok Senator Ledama ole Kina asked the Director of Criminal Investigations and Director of Public Prosecutions to take up the matter. “The case should be heard in Nairobi, not Nakuru. The affected people need to get on with their lives,” Ledama said. Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja, who is also the Vice Chair of the Security Committee in the Senate, said the Senate did not come up with a report in vain. He hit out at the Judiciary for the injunction that has led to the stoppage of implementation of the restoration process on the land in Solai. “We did not do a report in vain and that is why we are here. We want a Kenya where everyone is equal before the law. As Vice Chair of the Security Committee in the Senate I want to say that I will be summoning the concerned agencies in one week so that they can also tell us about the issues raised,” he said. Area MCA Peter Mbae was absent owing to a case he is facing that barred him from holding any meetings in Solai. Nakuru Senator Susan Kihika hit out at the police for arresting the area MCA terming it illegal since he was only trying to assist the victims. “Why did they arrest the MCA for trying to assist the victims? To make matters worse they give him a bond of Sh1 million. We are in a democratic world and people are free to assemble,” Kihika said. Area MP Samuel Gachobe asked the Senate to intervene and ensure the case against the MCA is withdrawn in the spirit of ensuring cohesion. He wants the Interior Chief Administrative Secretary Patrick ole Ntutu to investigate bribe claims in the case. Click here for the latest political news.