Gusii Water and Sanitation Company has started rationing water to ensure adequate supply to key institutions like Kisii Teaching and Referral Hospital. “We have embarked on a water rationing programme to ensure that patients at KTRH do not suffer any shortage,” GWASCO acting managing director Hosbon Nanga said. Nanga said the water levels at River Kuja had declined because of the current dry spell. He said residents will be getting water during the day and the hospital at night. “The supply will resume to normal when we the rains start,” he said. The official assured residents that they will get adequate supplies after the completion of the Kegati Water Treatment Plant. “Long-term measures are being undertaken by the national government in collaboration with the Kisii and Nyamira county governments as well as Lake Victoria South Water Services Board to ensure there is adequate supply in future.” Water vendors are cashing on the shortage, selling a 20-litre jerry can at between Sh20 and Sh40. Among the hardest hit institutions are hotels. A spot check by the Star established that vendors queued outside the establishments with jerricans of the commodity for sale. The town has for a while been experiencing a water crisis. Nanga urged the residents to use water sparingly. At the same time, the department of Public Health has warned residents that water from springs is unsafe. A laboratory analysis conducted on the springs water where vendors draw water showed that 90 per cent of them have unfit for consumption water. County public health officer Melitus Kabar said: “A laboratory test which was conducted indicated that only Nyakomisaro spring is safe.” Last year, Nyamira residents protested the construction of a Sh5 billion water project, arguing that it was implemented without public participation. On Monday, residents demonstrated against Bonyunyu Dam project on River Gucha in Kitutu Masaba constituency. The Dutch government funded dam is intended to end water shortage in Kisii town.