The Water Services Regulatory Board has dismissed as illegal a committee gazetted last week by Murang’a government to manage water services. The regulator’s CEO, Robert Gakubia, said on Monday that the appointment did not follow procedures. He said any public office appointment requires transparency,  public participation and fair competition as required by the Constitution. The county government published the notice on February 11, when it announced the 12 members of the new committee called the Murang’a County Water and Sanitation Services. “I saw the gazette notice on Friday and I doubt any public participation was followed,” he said. Gakubia addressed a public participation meeting about issuing a licence to the Murang’a Water and Sanitation Company. Governor Mwangi wa Iria has been feuding for more than a year with the Murang’a Water and Sanitation Company (Muwasco) over its leadership. No board He had earlier appointed Professor Joseph Kimura to replace Peter Munga as company chairman. Munga unsuccessfully challenged his replacement in court. Gakubia also dismissed as illegal the Murang’a County Water and Sanitation Services Act that passed in December last year, saying it did not conform to the law. He said the board had written to the county assembly through the clerk’s office informing them that the law had to be aligned to the national law. The Constitution  provides that national law should prevail where there is any conflict concerning an issue that affects the entire country, Gakubia said. “We can only advise the assembly but it’s up to them to make appropriate decisions,” the  CEO said. The Constitution provides a devolved system but clear policies guide the two levels, he said. Twelve other companies have applied for licences and their applications are being processed, he said. “After public participation, we will prepare the final report and present it to the board,” he said. Gakubia said the main challenge has been the absence of a board of directors for about one year.