City Hall will on Monday hold the public participation forum on the Nairobi County Fiscal Strategy Paper (CFSP) 2019-2020 across all the 17 sub counties to get city residents views. The consultative forums will be at different venues from 10 a.m where Members of the County Assembly will lead the discussions. In Dagoretti North sub county the venue will be Muslim Primary School Hall, Dagoretti South - Waithaka Social Hall, Embakasi Central- Kayole 2 Social Hall and Embakasi North - Dandora 3 Social Hall. In Embakasi South, the venue will be Mukuru Health Centre (Imara Daima), Embakasi East- Embakasi Social Hall,Embakasi West - sub county administration office in Umoja 1 and in Makadara - Jericho Social Hall. In Ruaraka the venue will be at the Ruaraka Resource centre-CDF office, Roysambu- Kahwa West Marking parking area, Kasarani- Maji Mazuri grounds, Kamkunji- Eastleigh North Social Hall, Langata- Karen Social Hall, Mathare- Undugu social Hall-Mabatini, Kibra- Joseph Kang'ethe Social Hall in Woodley, Westlands- Parklands Day Nursery school and Starehe- Kariokor Social hall. MCAs representing all the 85 wards will be present and they have urged residents to attend the forums. The public will be expected to give their views and opinions as per the CFSP and also get to hear the county government's side. A validation forum will be held on Friday at Charter Hall to mark the end of the exercise. A county fiscal strategy paper is the County's Government's strategy document for the budget, and provides the link between the Government's overall policies and implemented through the annual budget. Read: Inside Sonko’s Sh31.5bn budget to tackle problems facing Nairobi The programs and policies reflect the concerns of Nairobi people and are anchored under the second County Integrated Development Plan (CIDP), Governor’s manifesto and in line with President Uhuru Kenyatta's the Big Four Agenda. In this year CFSP, Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko has proposed to spend Sh31.5 billion where Sh8.7 billion will be spent on development. The proposed fiscal policy paper is already out and available to the public. Click here for the latest political news 