When Joyce Kagure, 37, met John Njoroge in church five years ago, she was convinced that she liked him. Njoroge, a 36-year-old man, led the praise and worship sessions in their church. Kagure wedded him on Saturday in a Kimende town church, Kiambu county. Their wedding attracted many residents who packed the Deliverance Church to witness the couple exchange vows. Kagure arrived at the church in company of her parents at 10am, just five minutes after Njoroge, arrived followed by his parents and relatives. The Rev John Kamau, who solemnised the marriage, described the couple as brave. “The couple in front of us is brave. Joyce can see John physically, but John says he sees Joyce with his inner eyes. This is a very unique wedding,” the cleric said. “I found myself speaking to him too much, something that cultivated a relationship. We shared many stories,” she said. “It was at that time when I would tell him about my life challenges and he used to advise me. I also encouraged him in one way or the other,” she said. “She will be my eyes. I see her beauty in my inner eyes, and she will be my eyes to see what I can’t see,” Njoroge said. The couple, however, said  they faced challenges when some people discouraged Kagure  from marrying Njoroge. “The wisdom I heard from him, made me love him more. I was able to overcome all the naysayers and those who spoke against our intention. I thank God that He has finally given me a husband,” she said. Njoroge graduated as a  telephone operator and customer care course from Thika School for the Blind and is looking for a job, while Kagure works at Cleanshelf Supermarket. Kagure’s uncle Benson Njenga said they had to accept her decision, since they had been “disturbed by the relationship and marriage”. “When she broke the news at home that she wanted to marry a blind person, we were disturbed. Am sure some tried to discourage her, but I didn’t because she is an adult” Njenga said. Njoroge’s family friend Simon Kareke said Njoroge had gotten a helper, since at his age, he needed an attention from family and more so a wife. “We are happy and praying God that they will be blessed. We also appeal for well wishers to help Njoroge get a job,” Kareke said. Rev Faith Wangunyu urged worshipers to pray for the couple. “They have taught us a lesson that everything is possible in the eyes of our Lord and more so to the people living with disabilities. They have a life before the eyes of God” she said. Their best couple, John Mutysia and Elizpha Wairimu, said they couldn’t resist the couple’s request to oversee their wedding since they were their best friends.