Nairobi workers went on strike yesterday to protest against the county’s failure to increase their pay by 15 per cent. The increment is part of the benefits agreed in the 2012 Collective Bargaining Agreement. “We negotiated a CBA with the past county regime and received a court award in November last year but it’s not yet implemented,” Francis Gachukia said. He is treasurer of the Nairobi City County Government Workers Union (NCCGW). The workers criticised the Salaries and Remuneration Commission, saying it had frustrated implementation of the CBA. In January they had asked SRC to compel City Hall to implement the agreement,to no avail. “We will continue the strike until SRC issues a letter for our 15 per cent salary increment,” Gachukia said. The workers are demanding a collective monthly salary increment of Sh110 million, which was to be paid beginning at end of January this year. Kenya County Government Workers Union (KCGWU) Secretary General, Roba Duba on Monday said the workers will protest daily to demand their dues. “Over 13,000 workers will rally at City Hall from Tuesday at 9am. This will be a daily exercise until our CBA is fully implemented,” Duba said. Duba said that last December, Sonko promised to implement a 15 per cent pay rise agreed between the county and the workers’ union, in May 2017. It didn’t happen. Deputy county secretary and public service management chief officer Leboo Morintat said the county executive committee adopted the (CBA) registered in September 2017. He said workers would get a 15 to 28 per cent pay rise, or approximately Sh100 million if the CBA is implemented. Morintat said the CBA is divided into monetary and non-monetary terms. Workers will also benefit from leave allowances, medical cover and others, he said. The union says that since 2012 terms have not been revised for former local authority staff who transited to the county government. Branch secretary Benson Oriaro in a letter dated February 4, warned the county of the strike. “Due to non-compliance and disowning your own promise to implement our accord in January, we hereby invoke the Employment Act 2007,” he wrote. “We will parade the entire Nairobi county government workforce at City Hall beginning February 12, and demand full implementation,” the letter says. Oriaro said in May 2014 the union signed a recognition agreement and the 2012 CBA was revised and signed in May 2017 and registered in the Labour Relations Court in September last year.