Nurses in 11 counties went on strike yesterday even as the government termed the action illegal. Labour Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yatani said the Labour Relations law mandates the union to end the strike immediately and submit to the conciliatory committee, which was inaugurated yesterday. “If they incite members to continue to strike, they're in breach of the law. The other parties can go to court to declare strike illegal and employers can undertake disciplinary actions including withholding salaries and dismissal,” he said. He unveiled the conciliatory committee, chaired by labour specialist Harun Mwaura. Other members are Moses Ombok from the Federation of Kenya Employers and Cotu deputy secretary general Benson Okwaro. “On appointment of a conciliatory committee, parties in conflict have no choice but to obey the conditions as per the law,” Yattani said. The law prohibits a strike if the parties in dispute have agreed to an arbitration. Kenya National Union of Nurses sent representatives to the conciliation meeting yesterday. “I have sent a strong team of four to that meeting and we are are going to tell them one thing, address our issues and we will go back to work,” said secretary general Seth Panyako. Principal Secretary Peter Tum represented the Ministry of Health while the Council of Governors promised to send representatives. The conciliation team will work for 30 days. The counties affected yesterday are West Pokot, Kisumu, Nairobi, Kisii, Taita Taveta, Trans Nzoia, Nyandarua, Nyeri, Wajir, Elgeyo Marakwet and Kitui. KNUN is demanding enhancement of uniform allowance by Sh5,000 shillings per year, increase of nursing service allowance by Sh20,000 a month, promotions, as agreed in the return-to-work formula signed in November last year. Nurses in the remaining affected counties will go on strike progressively on February 6, 11th, 18th and 24th depending on the day they signed their return-to-work-formula last year. Read: No turning back on nurses' strike on Monday - Panyako Eighteen counties will not be affected because they have shown commitment to pay the allowances by the end of the month, the union said. In Nairobi, nurses converged at Uhuru Park and later marched to the county government offices at City Hall. Branch Secretary Ediah Muruli said the strike was protected because they attended conciliation meetings which the county government failed to attend. "The conciliator gave us a certificate to pursue industrial action due to the failure of the county government to participate in negotiations," she said. In Kisumu and Kisii, some nurses were seen on duty while others boycotted. Those striking converged at the Jomo Kenyatta Sports Ground for a meeting. A spot check at Kisii Teaching and referral Hospital established that patients were receiving services in various wards despite the strike threats. Governor James Ongwae said nurses were working. “I have been monitoring service delivery at KTHR and other facilities and I can tell a number of nurses were on duty and were serving patients,” Ongwae said. In Nyandarua, striking nurses accused the administration of dishonesty. Union branch secretary John Gachara said county secretary Hiram Kahiro had abruptly cancelled talks planned for yesterday at 11am, saying he was busy in Nakuru. Kahiro denied there was such a meeting. “Waa…where do you usually get these claims from? We have not even sat with the county officials!“ he said in a text message. Read: Nurses' strike: Council of Governors wants stalemate unlocked However, some nurses said they were not for the strike “It was very difficult staying at home idle in the first strike in 2017. We stayed without pay for all that time yet we have children in school and other needs. Patients also suffered so much. Some gave birth at home and by the time they came to hospital after we resumed both the mothers and the babies had infections. Please pray for a lasting solution to be found quickly,” said one nurse. In Samburu, the strike paralysed services at the Samburu county referral hospital in Maralal town. The nurses had planned a demonstration but were summoned for a meeting by Chief Officer Sam Nakope. "I brought my mother here for treatment but she has not yet received the service up to now, I am looking for fare to take her to another hospital,” said one Peter Kanyi. Journalists were barred from entering the hospital. Click here for the latest political news