Baby Samantha Pendo’s family and Kisumu residents are anxiously awaiting today’s ruling on the inquest into her death. They pray for justice and that the killers of the six-month-old baby will be brought to book. Baby Pendo died in August, 2017 after she was clobbered on the head allegedly by the police in her parents’ Nyalenda slum house. The officers were responding to chaos that rocked the lakeside city after Uhuru Kenyatta was declared the winner of the August 8, 2017, presidential elections. Government chemist Joseph Gitonga brought to the court a report on the exhibits provided by Ipoa investigator, including a teargas canister. During the inquest, lawyers said the police service should be held responsible for the child’s murder since it could not identify the individuals responsible. Law Society of Kenya’s Richard Onsongo said the police service was liable since the blunt object used to hit Pendo belonged to the institution. Independent Police Oversight Authority’s Bernadette Nzui said the officers violated the National Police Service Act by using excessive force in a residential area. When the inquest was concluded last year, senior resident magistrate Beryl Omollo said she needed adquate time to go through the evidence presented in court. Twenty one witnesses testified, among them Baby Pendo’s parents – Joseph Abaja and Lenser Achieng. Their nine neighbours also testified. General Service Unit officers deployed to Nakumatt, Kachok and areas bordering Nyalenda Estate also testified. Several members of Ruiru’s Recce company including GSU commander Nzioka Mutune attached to the headquarters and former leader of the unit’s Nyanza division, also gave their accounts. Pendo’s mother broke down as she narrated how her baby was clobbered in her hands.“I surrendered because I was holding a baby. One officer let me pass but another tried to hit me. Another hit me on the back. When I turned, the one in front hit my baby,” she said. She added, “Pendo grabbed and held me so tight. Her mouth was foaming and the left side of her head immediately swelled.” Before the inquest, Ipoa recommended disciplinary action against Kisumu commander Titus Yoma, Kisumu East police boss Christopher Mutune, Kisumu Central DAPC Benjamin Koima and OCS John Thiringi.