National Cross Country Championships-cum-trials Local Organising Committee chairman Abraham Mutai believes selecting Team Kenya to the World Cross Championships on the near-flat course at the Eldoret Sports Club will have no dimension on the team’s performance in Aarhus, Denmark on March 30. The organisers of the World Cross show in Denmark have introduced some unique aspects on the course which will take runners through the grassy, sloping roof of the Moesgaard Museum, featuring steep ascents and descents. But back home, runners will endure a relatively friendly course and although in altitude, Mutai feels this will be a plus rather than a challenge. Instead, he believes what will be done once the team is named is what will count towards ensuring Kenya retain the overall and individual titles they won during the 2017 edition at the Kololo grounds in Kampala, Uganda. “We received the details of the course in Aarhus long time ago and the interested athletes have familiarised themselves with the details as well as the weather conditions,” said Mutai. “For us, it will only be the team selection. After that, coaches will deliberate on the best training tactics for the team and ensure they deliver the titles come March 30.” While on an inspection tour of the course yesterday morning, Mutai said the current crop of Kenyan athletes is educated and are able to work in tandem with the coaches’ proposals in ensuring they counter the adverse weather conditions expected in Denmark. “Looking at the quality of our athletes lately, they are great, educated and can deliver at any given time. Top athletes from National Police Service, Kenya Defence Forces (KDF) and Kenya Prisons as well as the various regions have competed at different venues across the world and picking them on a flat course in Eldoret cannot deny them a world title come March,” added Mutai. He said they are ready to deliver on a world class event, bettering the 2016 Rio Olympics trials, one of the best local athletics events in recent history.