Kenyans on Twitter have expressed their outrage following a series of alleged murders at Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology. According to some of the students, a first-year student was stabbed around Seagull Hotel near the school on Thursday night. The lady, name witheld, succumbed to her injuries at JKUAT Hospital. JKUAT student leaders (JKUSA) wrote to the Juja OCPD Simon Thirikwa over the recent death. In the letter dated February 7, they informed him about a peaceful demonstration on Friday at 9 am. "This is to inform all students that we will be having a peaceful demonstration in Juja following a series of killings. Most recent having been on Thursday at Seagul hotel," reads the letter. KOT waded in on the alleged killing of the first year student. “This is the saddest thing ever when your parents are waiting for you to graduate, get a job & help them! But what is brought to them is your lifeless Body. May her soul RIP," Moseax tweeted “Students at JKUAT must unite like UoN used to do during the reign of Babu Owino and fight these heinous acts by the police. Rallying their anger through social media is cowardly and not as effective as demonstrations,” Felixnderie said. "These are innocent lives. One lady was stabbed to death yesterday. This is one too many. When will this ever stop? what if am next? Lucy Kamunya said. “Please, stop killing University students, Our mothers and fathers in the village are waiting for a degree, please don't take a corpse to them. It pains to hear how a dream of a young lady was ended last night," Cymon said “It’s about that time comrades to Stand and Stop this matter in solidarity Peace and Security comes first,” Ian Duncan tweeted. “As a digital journalist, I have covered over 4 deaths at JKUAT from October to date alone. Those stories keep me up every day. Because I am also a student and I keep wondering if I'll be next. So today I won't just write; I'll take to the streets too. “Ann tweeted. “This is just painful. Poleni JKUAT  comrades. Juja police it is not just patrols. Interact with nduthi guys and other active residents of Juja you need intelligence, with Intel you will fight Juja crime in a better way. These killings hurt.” Kevin Mong’are tweeted “A people united shall never be defeated. We are going to remind the people of Juja that comrades are the only!! Shareholders of the GDP of this town, So we demand respect and protection from the police. We are being killed like chicken.”@ Maestro “We cannot continue losing students like this when Juja police station is just under our noses.” Nick Willian said “We will not sit and watch our lives being brought to an end by killers at such very early hours. We must resist these heinous acts.” Freeze tweeted “At around 7-9pm, Several Juja P. Station Police are sent around Juja town in Pairs to collect bribes from the many bars that operate within Juja near JKUAT. These bars are then allowed to operate 24/7 unlawfully and harbour thieves and idlers," Mutwiri said. “Juja is a town that hosts a major university in Kenya, JKUAT. The town is facing lots of insecurity cases despite having a working police station in place. us students refuse to be subject to danger and we shall hold the police responsible for this “Castro Jackson tweeted On Monday, a fire broke out at the JKUAT main campus in Juja, Kiambu county, and badly damaged the students' dining hall. The inferno broke out at around 4 am. Read more:Fire razes students' dining hall at JKUAT In 2017, a 22-year-old JKUAT student body was found chopped up. Reports indicated she had quarrelled with the brother over a Weetabix meal before her death. Police officers attached to Juja police station found parts of her body, including her limbs and intestines, stuffed in a bucket and hidden above the ceiling of a house in Kahawa Sukari See more: Weetabix row linked to murder of JKUAT girl Click here for the latest political news.