One early August morning, Naileku, six, was playing outside with her eight-year-old sister, Neema. The wind whistled gently as more peers joined the cooking game, mimicking their mothers preparing meals. Women began to gather at the homestead, but the girls continued to play. Then an older woman in traditional regalia announced her presence through song and motioned for the two to be brought to her. Naileku ran towards the bushes and her sister followed. However, boys were sent after them and they were brought back. Naileku was separated from her sister. The women tied her down. She fought hard, screaming. But the women overpowered her. She was lost in a trance. Then a tall man walked in and asked everybody to disperse and leave the two sisters alone. Their father had arrived just in time to save his little girls from the knife. Daddy had promised to protect their minds and bodies from harm. He had kept his word! Men like Naileku and Neema’s father deserve commendation for being part of the campaign that is unpacking the complexity and cultural sensitivity of female genital mutilation in their communities. As the world marks the International Day of Zero Tolerance for FGM tomorrow, the focus this year is to drive concerted efforts to bring everyone to the table to promote the abandonment of FGM under the theme, ‘Ending FGM is my responsibility.’ FGM comprises all procedures that involve altering or injuring the female genitalia for non-medical reasons and is recognised internationally as a violation of the rights of girls and women. FGM is mostly carried out on young girls sometime between infancy and 15 years. In Narok county, four out of every five girls undergo FGM. This is more than double the national prevalence at 21 per cent. The Ministry of Public Service, Youth and Gender Affairs, will lead more than 2,000 community members from Kenya and Tanzania, state and non-state actors to mark the day’s events in Loita, Narok. Kenya is making progress in reducing the FGM prevalence. The 2014 Kenya Demographic and Health Survey showed national prevalence had decreased from 32 per cent in 2003 to 27 per cent in 2008-09 and down to 21 per cent by 2014. Similarly, a 2018 study published in the British medical journal, Global Health, showed the prevalence of FGM for girls under the age of 14 had fallen significantly in Kenya. However, the situation is still dire in some communities such as the Somali with 94 per cent, 86 per cent Samburu, 84 per cent Kisii and 78 per cent among the Maasai. The national FGM prevalence reduction has been attributed to the enactment and implementation of the Children Act 2001, Prohibition of FGM Act 2011, policy changes, concerted efforts and investments by the national and county governments, communities, civil society organisations and the UNFPA-Unicef Joint Programme on FGM in Kenya. As we celebrate this progress, a long winding road lies ahead. The complexities of FGM keep changing and we need to be realistic how to handle them. In recent times, there has been an upsurge of medical practitioners performing FGM, known as medicalisation, and families cutting very young girls. The venue and timing has changed and cross-border cutting of girls in Tanzania, Uganda, Ethiopia and Somalia picked up. We need to have honest and sustained discussions with these communities using a ‘Do No Harm’ principle lens. To reach nomadic communities, we need innovative approaches that include on-site community conversations, empowering teachers as FGM community facilitators and, where applicable, embracing the use of simple mobile texts in the local dialect to provide appropriate FGM information. We need to maintain the pace at the national, county, community and individual level. For Kenya to end FGM by 2030, there are enablers that need to be put in place, including the integration of FGM issues in other sectors. There is a need for sustained community engagement, government investment and evidence-generation and utilisation. It is also critical to engage men and boys as well as other community members as we empower girls and women and provide help to survivors.     Bernadette Loloju
is the CEO Anti-FGM Board, Twitter:@lolojuberna
@AFGMBoard 