STARRING: Nina Dobrev, Tone Bell, Odessa Adlon, Sheryl Lee Ralph, Brian Stokes Mitchell, Gary Cole GENRE: Comedy  Nina Dobrev is straying far from her loveable vampire-heroine character in the teen thriller The Vampire Diaries. She might have over-reached in her attempt at comedy stardom in the new sitcom ‘Fam’. In the show, Dobrev stars as Clem, a bright young woman, who strives for a perfect life with her new fiancé, Nick. Clem also gets along well with her future in-laws Walt and Rose. With her new would-be family, Clem finally feels like she can have that perfect life she’s always dreamed about. The catch, however, is that Clem lied to Nick that her parents were dead. And that her half-sister has long disappeared from her life. She’s caught in a web of lies as her half sister Shannon unexpectedly reappears in her life. Shannon is an out-of-control-teen, to say the least. She has no regard for rules or school. Clem is forced to reach out to her estranged father, Freddy, to help with Shannon. Freddy might be a homicide investigator, but his real life is far from being a law enforcer. His troubled ways are what caused the estrangement between him and his daughters. Clem decides that Shannon might have a better future if she lives with her and Nick. She wants Shannon to have a family, but in her Generation-Z attitude, Shannon states that no one says family anymore. Rather, they say ‘fam’. The show doesn’t add anything new to TV. In fact, it seems more like a déjà vu mash-up of several sitcoms that might have aired previously. However, it includes a modern take of comedy by adding comedic soundbites that are relatable to a much younger audience. (Un)fortunately, it is up to the cast to deliver the comedy in a way that will make the audience stick around. Dobrev is certainly no Julia Louis-Dreyfus. She has no comedic aptitude nor talent for industry. Her on-screen sister Odessa Adlon seems to vastly outperform her. But the highlight of the show is TV veteran Gary Cole as the father, Freddy. Cole’s witticism just about manages to make the show scrape by.  Star Rating: 3/5