The chairman of the troubled Ekeza Sacco has differed with the government over the sale of some of his properties to raise money and pay members. David Kariuki Ngari, better known as Gakuyo, said blocking him from selling the properties was “ill advised” and he wants the decision reversed. Ngari on Sunday said it was wrong forTrade CS Peter Munya to stop him from disposing of the properties, yet “they have been on my neck to refund the savings belonging to 53,000 members of the sacco”. “I also don’t understand why the CS is claiming that the money raised through the sale of properties will be used to repay the members. All the monies raised will be deposited into the Ekeza Sacco account where the commissioner for cooperatives, Mary Mungai, is a signatory and therefore no coin can be withdrawn without her consent,” he said. Ngari, the overseer Bishop of Calvary Chosen Centre Church in Thika, said the government should move in and supervise the sale of his properties which, according to him are worth Sh1.8 billion. “If they don’t have confidence in me then they should oversee the sale of the properties and ensure the money raised is deposited into the Ekeza account.” Two weeks ago, his Gakuyo Real Estate placed an advert in a local daily listing the properties to be disposed of. Some of the properties include 50 acres in Kilimambogo, Thika, 100 acres in Kabati, Murang’a, and a quarry in Kabati. Gakuyo is also selling a residential house in Nyari Estate near Village Market, Nairobi, a hotel in Juja and a house on half acre along the Thika-Garissa road near Makongeni estate. He said the money needed to make the refunds is Sh400 million which would be easy to realise if he is allowed to sell the property. The land in Kabati is worth Sh500 million while the hotel in Juja is worth Sh300 million, he said. “The government should allow the sale of these properties so that the agony of the members who have been demanding their money can come to an end,” he said. Last week, Munya said the government will move to court to stop Gakuyo from selling until an inquiry into possible financial impropriety is concluded. He said he was not convinced by the reason given by the sacco management that the proceeds of the sale will be used to repay members. So far, a total of Sh116 million has been refunded to 2,000 members.