Garissa residents have accused the police of harassment after one of five people “abducted” on Monday was found locked up at the Anti-Terror Police Unit headquarters in Nairobi. Mohamed Yusuf’s wife Fauzia Abdi said she traced him on Tuesday. The whereabouts of four other “abductees” remain unknown. Yusuf, a Madrassa teacher, was picked up by eight ATPU officers from the Madrassa at Bulla Sagarey in Wabere East, Garissa Township constituency. The man, in his 30s, has four children and has been a Madrassa teacher for 15 years. The ATPU officers arrived in two Land Cruisers with no number plates. They stormed the Madrassa and picked up the five and sped off. Yusuf’s co-teacher was not arrested. The man said he could not speak to reporters for fear of reprisal. About 150 pupils were present in class when their teacher was arrested. Yusuf’s phone and ID card were confiscated before he was bundled into one of the vehicles. Fauzia said yesterday that her husband was taken to Nairobi that night. She spoke at Garissa Library Hall where Muslims for Human Rights had organised a legal aid forum. “Police in Nairobi told us investigations were ongoing. They did not tell us the cause of the arrest,” the teary Fauzia said. Muhuri chairman Khelef Khalifa said the continued detention of the Madrassa teacher was illegal. The law requires that a suspect is produced in court within 24 hours after arrest. Police can then request for more time to hold the suspect. “That is not the case,” Khalifa said, pointing out that there should have been prior intelligence before Yusuf was arrested. “We don’t want to interfere with police work but the manner they are operating is causing more harm. It is aggravating extremism,” he said. Fauzia said she was living in fear. During the forum, residents accused intelligence and ATPU officers from outside Garissa of harassing local people. Mukhtar Dahir said people are often tortured to confess. “Youths, businessmen and al Shabaab returnees are the target,” Dahir said. “The officers are wild and can shoot at the slightest provocation.” Muhuri executive director Hassan Abdille said 12 people have disappeared in Garissa since January.