Last month, the elitist World Economic held its meeting in Davos, Switzerland. In that meeting, a viral video by the Guardian shows a Dutch historian in a panel discussion, where he took some billionaires who flew in in private jets to task for not paying taxes. Rutger Bregman, who the Guardian says is the author of the book Utopia for Realists, “bemoans the failure of to address the key issue in the battle for greater equality: the failure of rich people to pay their fair share of taxes. I am among those who believe Davos kind of meetings are not the approach to end poverty. The Panama Papers leaks last year, for example, detailed how Nigerian billionaire Sayyu Dantata bought six subsidiaries across the region from US oil firm Chevron. The $1 billion deal would have been subject to multiple tax regimes depending on the laws of the countries involved. The Guardian reported that tax experts working with the ICIJ said the transaction, at the very least, “skilfully avoided the withholding tax regime”. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) has in the past said the extent of tax evasion in the region is dramatic, with more than $50bn per year funnelled out through illicit flows. Sustainable development, now seemingly pegged on the adoption of the SDGs, seeks to end poverty, fight insecurity and tackle climate change by 2030. This will be by ensuring access to education, healthy living, gender equality and call for climate action. But there is no way any state can sustainably develop whereas it has not yet attained food security, social welfare and environmental conservation and importantly, collect and use taxes well to achieve this. The opposite is very present in the developing world. The European Union is reported to be working around quite an ambitious and comprehensive package that takes into consideration a number of issues such as social economic dimension, environmental concerns, poverty eradication (income, food security, water, energy, health, education, gender inequalities) and resource mobilisation that will facilitate putting the agenda into practice. They have also enhanced their Official Development Assistance that focuses more on the least developed nations. However, the EU and other potential well wishers have concerns, or a faced by bottlenecks that wouldn’t allow them extend their helping hand. These range from conducive policy environment, governance concerns and somewhat ineffective of untrusted institutions. These are issues that are beyond their control but lay squarely on the control of our leadership. Such limitations affect efforts to end poverty. African governments should  thus self-evaluate in regards to their economies, collection and use of taxes, not attending meetings in Davos.  Kibii comments on current affairs            