Residents of Gitaru in Kabete on Wednesday barred Kenya Forest Service officers from seizing trees they had cut from their farms. Residents had cut the trees to allow expansion of the Southern Bypass. They say the logs belong to them. The Kenya National Highway Authority had two weeks ago requested residents to cut trees near the road within 30 days. The Southern Bypass will extend from Gitaru junction and pass through Wangige up to Ruaka Bypass. Residents heckled the KFS officers and tried to block the Gitaru-Wangige road in Ha Magu area. The officers, wanted to take the logs to the KFS station. The commotion attracted a lot of people. Some came with old tyres, ready to light a bonfire on the road. They did not do so. “We were told by Kenha to cut down our trees within an area of 30 metres from where the tarmac ends. They were here and guided us,” resident Peter Kamau said. He said they thought since the directive was given by a government agency, no one would question them for cutting the trees. But the KFS questioned their actions. “We wonder how this government is working. However, we stood firm and we won’t allow them to confiscate our trees,” Kamau said. The forest officials told residents they had violated the law by cutting the trees and transporting them without a permit. The law prohibits the felling of trees without a permit, even on private farms. educate people Kabete MP James Githua and deputy county commissioner Malack Namai, who tried to quell the protests, engaged the KFS officers. They agreed to allow residents remove the trees that had been felled. Namai told residents to visit the assistant chief’s office and get permits to continue felling the trees. Githua asked the KFS to educate residents on the procedures and permits for cutting down trees in their farms, estates and villages. “Let people not learn about the law when they are in trouble. That is torture. They planted these trees with a reason,” the MP said. Nominated MCA Jane Thogori urged the government to change the law on cutting of trees on someone’s farm. It is punitive, she said. “People plant trees for their own use. The law governing trees in private farms should be looked again,” Thogori said. logging ban KFS officials at the scene declined to comment. But a junior officer, who declined to be named, said they were acting on instructions. He said since the logging moratorium was issued by the Environment CS Keriako Tobiko, no one is allowed to cut down trees either in the forest or at home. The logging ban was imposed on February 24 last year. In November last year, the government extended the ban on logging for another year to facilitate reforms. CS Tobiko said the extension will aid in the restoration and rehabilitation of the critical water catchment and natural forest areas currently estimated at 123,553 acres. He attributed water shortage in the country to deforestation, encroachment and degradation of catchment areas and riparian land. Last Tuesday, KFS chief conservator Monica Kalenda directed all contractors working on a road, to consult the service for advice and instructions. Kalenda said they are not against roads construction, but want to follow rules on conservation strategies.