Kenya loses at least 800 grey-crowned crane birds yearly. Scientists yesterday raised the alarm, saying the birds face extinction. They converged at Boulevard Hotel, Nairobi, before launching a nationwide survey of the birds. “The species is in trouble ... Its future is fading fast,” Kenya National Museums research scientist Wanyoike Wamiti said. The National Museums of Kenya and the Nature, the Biodiversity Conservation Union of Germany and other partners will conduct the survey. Forty volunteers forming at least nine teams drawn from Kenya, Germany, UK, France, Rwanda and Tanzania are to take part. The environmentalists blamed the problem on habitat loss and illegal collection of the birds’ eggs. In 1986, there were 35,000 of the species. The number reduced to 12,500 in 2015. A partial survey last year showed the birds were endangered. There were only less than 10,000. “The population has declined by 80 per cent in a period of 40-50 years,” Dr Peter Njoroge said. He is a senior scientist at National Museums of Kenya. Read: Fears of extinction as endangered vultures killed Njoroge said the census set to run until March 8 will be critical in coming up with an action plan to save the birds. “The results will also help in mobilising resources,” he said. The grey-crowned crane is one of the 15 living species of the cranes in the world. It is currently listed as endangered by the International Union for Conservation of Nature. Kenya Wildlife Service head of research and multilateral agreements Solomon Kyalo said Kenya, as a signatory to treaties and conventions, is required to cooperate with other countries to protect the birds. “KWS is obligated to prepare status of wildlife and present the report to the Cabinet secretary before being tabled in the National Assembly,” he said. Kyalo said the report helps the country to intensify conservation efforts. Those keeping grey-crowned cranes in captivity must have permits from KWS, he said. After the census, figures will be consolidated with those KWS has in its database. Scientists say invasive species such as elephant plant, Mauritius thorn and mimosa ruin the bird’s nesting places. DT Dobie manager Ian Middleton said they were providing four-wheel drive Volkswagen Safari vans that are environment friendly for the survey. “We want to give back to the country as it has given us a lot in the last 70 years,” he said. Nature Kenya’s communications and advocacy manager Serah Munguti said the data will be used in policymaking. Click here for
the latest political news