As a parent, it is your duty to dictate to your child what they will do at a particular time but more often than not, they catch us off-guard with some behaviours that leave us either embarrassed or shocked with their weird and wonderful comments that come out of their mouths. And while most of these statements are amusing, others can be downright creepy. Taking to a parenting Facebook group recently, hundreds of spooked Kenyan parents share things their children have said over the years - from mentioning ghosts to chatting to themselves at 3 am. Cross-dresser Shaniqwa says when he was young, his mother restricted him from eating food from people's house. "I don't know why she hated it but I remember there was a day we visited some friends house and I asked her if I could eat, she gave me a very serious face and told me to eat, but when I went back home she gave me a thorough beating," Shaniqwa told Weekend star. Another Kenya posted; "When my son was younger he told my boyfriend and his friends that my grandma killed a dog by putting a stick inside its mouth until it got out from its anus because it ate her chickens I was so embarrassed I didn't know how to shut him up." "We were at a checkpoint waiting, some guy standing behind us farted, my son looked at him with that look and said " how could you fart in public?" then he said, " Mommy he farted" pointing at him also shouting so people could hear. He is four-years-old but talks too much." Another one wrote: "Not my child but my niece, "Aunty why are u changing"? I asked "how" She said, "You have a big belly and you are ugly is it that baby in your stomach that makes you look like this?" I left her there with my sister and her friends laughing at me and there were this group of guys standing by the shop when I got home I looked myself in the mirror and I saw everything she was talking about I cried when I was done I washed my face and put some make up the minute they entered she looked at me and said" Aunty you are still ugly." Another parent narrates saying her child begged for food on the bus yet she had refused her mother's food and just wanted what that person had. "The person was stingy he acted like he hadn't seen her begging she even probed him with her finger." "My 5-year-old daughter was sitting on the floor in lounge one night watching TV and turned and said to me "Mummy what is that white thing that went through the wall?"' One mum wrote. I used to hear my son at 3 am chatting and laughing. Every night for about three years. Others said their children had told them toys had winked at them, moved on their own and told them to do 'bad' things when their parents weren't around. One mother recalled the terrifying moment her five-year-old son remembered visiting a hospital for his 'blood cancer' while visiting a family member. 'He is 5 and never had cancer! And had never attended that hospital!' The worried mother wrote. A fellow commenter responded: 'I pulled a heap of my father's things out one day and was looking through them my daughter come over picked up his wallet and said: "This was mine when I was a boy."