The government will in a week’s time be seeking views of the public on arming private security guards with guns. The Interior ministry has organised a forum at the Kenya School of Government on March 7 during which the draft regulations to guide the arming of the guards will be sought. Kenya has slightly more than 500,000 private security guards. Giving them guns will put more firearms in the hands of civilians than the number the police have — about 52,000. Some experts warn that this may end up being a security risk. “An individual private security firm in a county will have more guns than the police and could easily overrun the county’s police stations,” security expert Gordon Ogolla said in an opinion published in one of the local dailies. After months of reluctance, however, the government ceded to calls by private security companies for guns, a matter that was accelerated by terrorist attack on Dusit D2 Hotel in Nairobi on January 15. CS Fred Matiang’i, in a press notice, said the ministry is seeking comments from employees, employers, consumers of private security services, and the general public. “Alternatively, members of the public can send their views on email to ps@interior.go.ke or psra.kenya@gmail.com,” the notice reads. The comments can also be hand-delivered to Harambee House or any of the 47 county commissioners’ offices. Matiang’i said the regulations being subjected to public participation are in line with the the Private Security Regulatory Authority Act. Isaac Andabwa, who represents employees at the regulatory authority, urged all players — employers, guards and members of the public — to take part. “This is the time for Kenyans to tell the sector players of what they expect from private security service providers,” he said. The PSRA Act bars the issuance of guns to private guards. The ministry is, however, invoking Section 11 of the Act, which says that guards can cooperate with national security agencies in the maintenance of law and order. Because of the provisions, members of the PSRA board were split on whether it was the right time to start issuing the firearms. Former PSRA vice-chairman Erick Okeyo, who resigned after being named a director of the Lake Victoria Water Services Board, had opposed the move saying the law had to be amended first. He earlier said the government would be in violation of the Act if it allowed private security firms to start giving guns to their guards. “The Interior Cabinet secretary is required to send a memo to Parliament to initiate an amendment to the PSRA Act.”