A considerable list of absentees has not prevented Kariobangi Sharks from picking maximum points from their last two Kenyan Premier league matches with impressive home and away victories over Ulinzi Stars and Kakamega Homeboyz respectively. That strong in depth of their squad will be put to the test once again this afternoon when William Muluya’s charges entertain second-placed Bandari at Moi Stadium, Kasarani. Among the injured is skipper Patilla Omoto who is, however, fifty-fifty to be available today. Geoffrey Shiveka, Harrison Mwendwa and George Abege are the other first choice players struggling to be fit for today’s crunch clash. In their absence, Sydnet Lokale and Sjafan Oyugi have risen to the occasion scoring the goals in their twin victories. Reigning Player of the Year, Eric Kapaito also made his first start against Homeboyz and will hold onto his place this afternoon. The dockers on the contrary have a fully fit squad to choose from in this match which would guarantee them top spot should they avoid defeat. Up-front in particular, coach Bernard Mwalala is spoilt for choice with William Wadri, Yemi Mwana, Wycliffe Ochomo and Hassan Abdalla all available. 
However,  Fred Nkata, Nicholas Meja and Wilberforce Lugogo will miss out. Currently joint top on points with Mathare United who are away at Zoo Kericho tomorrow,  the coastal side can make top spot their own at least for 24 hours should they halt Sharks’ run of two successive wins. Another side eyeing the summit is 10-time champions Tusker who are at home to Homeboyz in another intriguing duel at Ruaraka. Of all the title contenders, the brewers have been the most consistent after a turbulent three years and they are now only three points from taking over the league’s leadership. However, the highlight of the weekend will see champions Gor Mahia take on in form Sofapaka tomorrow. After a slow start which saw them make changes to their technical bench with club legend John Baraza handed the head coach mantle, Batoto Ba Mungu have seen an upturn in fortune. Maximum points from their last five matches has marked them out as real contenders to end K’Ogalo’s supremacy. A win against them at Afraha tomorrow afternoon will not only give them a chance to ascend to the top but will bolster their hopes of a second championship. Those heady thoughts are not on the minds of former champions—Leopards and Ulinzi Stars—right now.  The two sides have struggled for form and find themselves in the bottom half of the eighteen team league ahead of their match up in Machakos tommorow. Leopards situation is worse as they find themselves in the relegation zone where only victory against the soldiers can extricate them.