Suspended Kilifi police officers accused of murdering a primary school pupil Katana Kazungu, 17, last year have denied the charges. Simeon Oyoo Ayodo and Amos Kiptoo Kipsang’ pleaded not guilty on Thursday before Malindi High Court judge Weldon Korir. A psychiatric test proved the duo are fit to stand trial. Kazungu was brutally shot dead in Tsangatsini Kaloleni on June 26, 2018. The autopsy report revealed the former Standard Seven pupil at Ndatani Primary School was shot at close range. The bullet pierced through his back, passed through one side of the heart and broke one of the ribs before it exited through the stomach. Korir ordered the cops be detained at Malindi police station until March 11, 2019. A report from probation service on bond and bail terms will be presented before the court that day. The prosecution did not object the release of the murder suspects on bond. Defence lawyer Gerald Magolo termed them as very junior officers when he applied for reasonable and lenient bond terms. “The accused are Police Constables,” he said. Director of Public Prosecution officer Babra Sombo said the bond should have surety. The court allowed rights group Muslims for Human Rights (Muhuri) to watch brief for the family of Kazungu. Kazungu’s parents wept bitterly at the court when the charge was being read. The deceased was their first-born. His life was cut shot when Ayodo and Kipsang’ allegedly opened fire at a group of youths that was pushing a truck stuck in the mud. Muhuri’s and InformAction findings state the truck was transporting ballast from a nearby quarry. Their records show six youths were pushing the truck during the fateful day. Five youths had been hired while Kazungu, who was coming from a funeral, offered to help anticipating a stipend. Muhuri previously reported at least five officers ambushed and started shooting at the group, felling Kazungu in the process. Police claimed the truck was stolen. Muhuri said the youths were ordered to face an opposite direction during the 6 pm incident. They were let-go at dawn.