Outgoing Kenya Rugby Union (KRU) secretary Odour Gangla has rejected Sasha Mutai’s ‘handshake’ approach to support him in next month’s polls. Instead, Gangla has opted to challenge Sasha in the race to replace Richard Omwela at the helm of the union. The two are reported to have met over a lunch where Sasha dropped the proposal to have Gangla retain the secretary post and support him for the chairmanship. Nothing came out of the talks as Gangla resolved to go for the big seat during what is expected to be the ‘mother of all battles’. Sasha contested for the post in 2017 and narrowly lost to outgoing chair Richard Omwela by two votes. He believes he now has what it takes to make a return to the union. However, Gangla on his part, declined to comment on their talks with Sasha, saying he is yet to announce his position as far as the elections are concerned. “I cannot comment on the talks we had with Sasha. Besides I have not even announced if I will be contesting for the seat. I will do that in the right time after consulting with my people,” he said. Gangla joined KRU in 2015 as secretary general during a Special General Meeting and the following year retained his seat. He was then elected last year on a four-year term period in the same position. It is now rumoured that he is keen to end his tenure as the union’s secretary and run for the top seat next month. The union is yet to announce dates for the elections as they are currently working on their audits for the last financial year. KRU Board was also elusive when asked if they will unanimously endorse Gangla to replace Omwela. Just like Gangla, Sasha is not new to rugby scene having served under Mwangi Muthee as the vice chairman. However, two years later, he lost to Philip Jalango. Mutai then contested for the top seat during the 2017 elections but Omwela edged him by two votes to secure his second term at the union. According to his manifesto, Sasha who is a quantity surveyor by profession, has plans to use the land at Moi Stadium Kasarani allocated to KRU to put up a modern stadium for the union. He, however, thinks that this can only be achieved once credibility at the union has been restored. “First we need to restore credibility at the union. I want to work with directors who can help solve the current problems and once all this is sorted, we can finally get to build a modern stadium. As a quantity surveyor, I can tell you, this can be achieved with the right people in leadership,” he noted. Mutai has also promised to bring back Bamburi Super Series.