The political rivalry between ex-Lamu Governor Issa Timamy and incumbent Fahim Twaha intensified on Saturday after the former was attacked by police officers and barred from addressing his supporters in Mpeketoni. Police lobbed teargas canisters at Timamy and his supporters who had gathered at the Mpeketoni new stage. Transport and business were paralysed for over three hours as police dispersed the crowd which had gathered to welcome the former governor for a planned rally. Timamy has been on a weeklong meet-and-greet tour with his supporters all over Lamu county. This comes after the Supreme Court earlier this month upheld Governor Twaha's 2017 election. Read: Supreme Court upholds Lamu Governor’s election The apex court ruled the Court of Appeal did not err by upholding his win, which Timamy had lodged an appeal against. Timamy said the purpose of the meet-and-greet tour was to thank his supporters for their support during the legal battle that saw Twaha’s election upheld thrice - at the Malindi court, the High Court and finally the Supreme Court. So far Timamy has been to Lamu town, Ndau village, Witu, Katsaka Kairu and Maisha Masha in his tours. Things, however, didn’t go as planned on Saturday as police turned the Mpeketoni meeting chaotic after lobbing teargas cannisters at the crowds. Businesses were looted in the melee as owners scampered for safety. Timamy has so far toured Lamu town, Ndau village in Lamu East as well as Witu, Katsaka Kairu and Maisha Masha villages. This is Timamy’s first ever public appearance in the region ever since he lost the general elections to Governor Twaha. Some of the police officers who were interviewed said they had gotten orders ’from above’ to ensure Timamy doesn’t reach Mpeketoni and ensure the rally doesn’t happen. Speaking on Sunday, a bitter Timamy wondered why police had treated him like an intruder yet he was a ‘son of the land’ and had the right to meet his supporters. Read also: I’ll wait for 2022, Timamy says after petition loss Timamy said he had met all prerequisite arrangements including obtaining a license for the rally and also informing police to provide security for the same. “I met and informed the OCS about this rally. But when the day came, there were countless roadblocks mounted and police were all over. You would think they were looking for a criminal. I can’t believe they would do that. It's not fair because I didn’t do anything wrong or illegal. I had all the requirements to hold the rally,” he said. Timamy said he was aware that powerful land and political cartels were behind his ‘lost win’ at the elections. “These cartels are the same ones who have connived with police officers here to mistreat me and treat me like a criminal. I know they are worried because they know I am the people’s choice. We want to know who gave such orders and why. Let them tell me the wrong I committed,” Timamy stated. When contacted, Lamu County Police Commander Muchangi Kioi termed Timamy’s planned rally in Mpeketoni as illegal as it had not been authorised. “As far as I am concerned, there was no meeting license to take place in Mpeketoni. Political rallies ended a long time ago,” Kioi said. Click here for the latest political news