Drug addicts discard used syringes on Nairobi River banks where children play. Landlords dump raw sewage in the river because they’re too cheap to pay for sewer hook-ups. It’s filled with industrial effluent and nasty rubbish of all kinds. Restoring the befouled Nairobi River will take a long time. Environment CS Keriako Tobiko was shocked and furious on Friday last week and on Wednesday when he returned to inspect the clean-up. “This is regrettable as children are running g all over,” the CS said. Nema director general Geoffrey Wahungu told his team to collect the syringes and take them to a registered incinerator “Even as we clean up the river, we continue to have discharges of raw sewage and industrial effluent. We continue to indiscriminately throw in litter and rubbish to the river,” Tobiko said to reporters accompanying him. He demanded swift action against polluters, no matter how influential. Clean-up has been underway for nearly two months. It will continue to the end of March, probably longer. Six hundred casuals are at work. “I’m really disappointed at the pace and the rate of enforcement,” he said. He was joined by Wahungu, Nema chairman John Konchellah and other Nema board members. They visited areas near Kirichwa Road, Shell petrol station, demolished Nakumatt Ukay and Southend Mall. At Shell station and the Ukay site, restoration was underway. Near Kirichwa Road, Tobiko encountered mind-boggling pollution, garbage and the syringes. Elsewhere raw sewage was being dumped from nearby houses. Tobiko instructed Wahungu to shut all discharge points and arrest all polluters. The tragedy is that both private and public entities are to blame, the CS said. Wahungu said they had arrested eight polluters last week. He said many landlords are unwilling to pay to connect their sewers to public sewer lines. “There are two types of sewage lines — old and a new trunk line. The problems are people refusing to connect to the line because of the cost,” he said. “Otherwise though we try to clean the river, sewage will keep flowing in,” Wahungu said. Last May, more than 600 Nairobi River pollution points were identified. On Wednesday, Tobiko urged agencies under his ministries to up their game or quit. Toboko was angry at Nema and the Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company for the mess. He warned them against sleeping on job. “It’s pointless to continue sinking in public resources to clean up the river. That is dealing with symptoms, not the causes,” Tobiko said. “There cannot be any justification or excuse whatsoever for public institutions discharging raw waste into out rivers. “If they’re not able to do the job, other people are capable of doing it, the CS said. “Nema has legal powers to do the job. Do with what you have to do and first justify your existence. If you can’t do anything with what you have, it makes no sense to argue that you need more.” Wahungu said, “Nema does not work in isolation. Other agencies work with us. Those who are dealing with waste, particularly the main sewers that cause 70 per cent of the problem, have to fix those sewers,” he said.