Five female nominees proposed by Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko to head various vacant county departments will be vetted next month. Nairobi County Assembly Clerk Jacob Ngwele said the vetting will take place on March 11, 2019, at City Hall. On January 11, 2019, Sonko nominated Lucia Mulwa who is currently the Chief Officer for Education to be in charge of the Education docket following the resignation of Janet Ouko. Chief officer for Urban Planning and acting County Secretary Pauline Kahiga has been nominated to the Devolution docket which was previously headed by Vesca Kagongo before she was suspended. Sanjeev Sonia Birdi was nominated to head the Environment docket while Kiambu Medical Superintendent Dr Stella Bosire was nominated to the Health docket. Economic and Planning Chief Officer Winfred Gathangu has been nominated to head the Finance department. The nominees will appear before the 10-man County Assembly Committee on Appointments whose mandate according to the Nairobi county assembly Standing Order 196 (4) is to consider, for approval by the County Assembly, appointments of the Members of County Executive Committees (CECs). Read: Blow to Sonko as MCAs reject medical services, finance Chief Officers Acting County Assembly Speaker Chege Mwaura chairs the committee while Majority Leader Abdi Guyo is the vice chairperson. Other members include Minority Leader Elias Otieno, Minority Whip Peter Imwatok and MCAs Millicent Mugadi, David Mberia, Emily Oduor, Peter Wanyoike and Peter Warutere. The five nominees are to bring with them original documents of their Identification Card, Curriculum Vitae and copies of relevant academic and professional credentials. Other necessary documents include current clearance certificates from Kenya Revenue Authority, Directorate of Criminal Investigations, Higher Education Loans Board, Credit Reference Bureau and the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission. Members of the public are also invited to attend the committee sittings. Governor Sonko has been operating with half a cabinet - only five executives - and no deputy governor. Read also: The who is who in other half of governor Sonko’s Cabinet The current executives are Allan Igambi in charge of Trade, Charles Kerich heading the Lands docket in an acting capacity, Mohammed Dagane (Transport), Newton Munene (ICT) and Larry Wambua (Water). Former executives Hitan Majevda and Vesca Kagongo were suspended over laxity and insubordination respectively while Emmah Mukuhi and Peter Njuguna did not have their one-year contracts renewed. Click here for the latest political news 