The only unbeaten run in the 2019 SportPesa Premier League campaign is no more after resurgent Sofapaka edged Kariobangi Sharks 2-0. The victory for John Baraza’s outfit was courtesy of a 22nd minute strike from diminutive forward Cliff Kasuti recruited from Ulinzi Stars in close season and a last minute strike from Ugandan hot shot Umaru Kasumba. “I am very happy with the way the team has been playing in each of our last few games. As a coach, you can only be grateful when your players carry out your instructions so successfully. Long may it continue,” said coach John Baraza, who is unbeaten since he was appointed on permanent basis as head coach of the team he served with distinction as a player. Victory moved Batoto Ba Mungu up into fourth—two places above their victims yesterday. Erasing the memories of their worst defeat in the league since their return was a top priority for Bandari and they did it in style, hammering two goals in each half past a struggling AFC Leopards en-route to a comfortable 4-1 triumph. Coach Bernard Mwalala remarked that he did not hit the panic button in the wake of the 4-0 mauling against Homeboyz on Wednesday last week, pointing out that fatigue after their Super Cup exertions played a part. He was proved right as a first half brace from Wycliffe Ochomo and a second half double piled on more anguish on Leopards. The result saw the dockers return to their second spot with 21 points after Tusker had overtaken them mid-week. They are only three behind league leaders Mathare United, whose own unbeaten record was ended in dramatic fashion by basement club Mount Kenya United. Leopards fell to 14th in the 18-team league after Zoo Kericho and KCB played out an entertaining 2-2 draw. Kakamega Homeboyz played out a 1-1 draw at home to neighbours Vihiga United while Nzoia United strengthened their position in the top half of the league table following their 3-2 win over Sony Sugar at the Sudi Stadium. The three points took Nzoia’s tally to 17 points from ten matches. They lie fifth in the standings behind Sofapaka on goal difference.