Despite banging goals with ease since his return to the local football, veteran Gor Mahia striker and Kenya’s all time top scorer Dennis Oliech was left out as Harambee Stars coach Sebastien Migne named a 25-man local based squad for the forthcoming Africa Cup and Chan qualifiers. Kenya preparing to play Ghana in the final Afcon qualifier match away in Ghana next month and at the same time kick off their bid to end their four-year absence in African Nations Championships against Burundi in a unspecified date. Since his return from retirement, Oliech has been on a scoring spree at Gor and has displayed leadership qualities, generating debate on whether he should be called up to the national team ahead of the Afcon finals slated for between mid June to July in Egypt. However, Migne overlooked the burly striker for youthful ones in his squad released on Saturday, where Allan Wanga, Sydney Lokale, David Juma and Piston Mutamba were preferred ahead of him. Lokale and Juma are set to make their debuts with the senior team. While naming the squad, surprises rocked the goal keeping department as the Kariobangi Sharks duo of Brian Bwire and John Oyemba were included to the team despite the former, who is a member of the national U-23 team, largely being unused by the club in the league matches. Bandari’s Farouk Shikhalo, who has been deputising first choice goalkeeper Patrick Matasi in the senior team, retained his place. Mathare United’s fine start in the ongoing SportPesa Premier League season saw four of their players earn a place in the team, where the trio of Roy Okal and Andrew Juma and David Owino will be making their debuts. The three were called up alongside fast rising forward Cliff Nyakeya. Similarly, Sharks stellar performance in the third edition of the SportPesa Cup saw five of their players earn a place in the provisional team. Playmaker Duke Abuya will make his debut while the trio of Bwire, Lokale and James Mazembe will feature in the senior team for the first time after upgrading from the U-23 team. Oyemba will be returning to the team after making his debut in 2017. Three Gor Mahia players Philemon Otieno, Francis Kahata and Joash Onyango retained their places in the national team but had two of their outstanding players this season Nicholas Kipkirui and Kenneth Muguna left behind. Goalkeepers: Brian Bwire(Kariobangi Sharks), John Oyemba (Kariobangi Sharks), Farouk Shikalo (Bandari); Defenders: Andrew Juma (Mathare United), David Owino (Mathare United), Philemon Otieno (Gor Mahia), Joash Onyango (Gor Mahia), Elvis Nandwa (Ulinzi Stars), Michael Kibwage (KCB), Bernard Ochieng (Vihiga United); Midfielders: Francis Kahata (Gor Mahia), James Mazembe (Kariobangi Sharks), Duke Abuya (Kariobangi Sharks), Roy Okal (Mathare United), Cliff Nyakeya (Mathare United), John Avire (Sofapaka), Dennis Odhiambo (Sofapaka), Teddy Osok (Wazito FC), Whyonne Isuza (AFC Leopards), Jafari Owiti (AFC Leopards), Abdallah Hassan (Bandari); Forwards: Sydney Lokale (Kariobangi Sharks), Piston Mutamba (Sofapaka), Allan Wanga (Kakamega HomeBoyz) and David Juma(Tusker). 