Britain has said that Brexit will not affect its trade relations with Kenya. Secretary of State for International Development and Minister for Women and Equalities Penny Mordaunt said the current trade relations will be enhanced despite UK exiting the European Union. Speaking during a meeting with Deputy President William Ruto at the Department of International Development, in London on Thursday, Ms Mordaunt assured Kenya that Brexit will not affect trade ties. “Brexit will not affect us. Technology can now help us engage in trading activities and has made things easier,” said Mordaunt. Ruto said Kenya would continue to engage in activities that can enhance the existing cordial relations between the two countries. The DP arrived in London Thursday morning for a two-day visit aimed at promoting cooperation between the two countries in various fields of interest including trade and investments.Dr Ruto said relations between the two countries were of great benefit to their citizens. He said Kenya would continue to enhance the existing good relations with Britain in areas of trade, tourism investment and continued partnership on the fight against extremism. Ruto also praised the cordial relations and cooperation between the two countries in areas of trade and investment. The Deputy President highlighted the economic relationship between the two countries, which is mutually beneficial with Britain being the largest source of tourists and several British companies having their presence in Kenya. “The relations between Kenya and Britain are mutually beneficial, robust and friendly. This is why we want to continue enhancing it for the betterment of our citizens in terms of trade and investments,” said Dr Ruto.Dr Ruto said Britain has also played a major role in the development of Mombasa Port’s infrastructure, roads, besides supporting trade not only in Kenya but Africa in general. And while addressing a group of businesspeople at a London hotel, the Deputy President asked them to take advantage of existing trade opportunities in Kenya. Ruto is expected to among others deliver a lecture at the Royal Institute of International Affairs, commonly known as Chatham House. The Chatham House lecture focuses on the Kenya’s national unity and regional integration, challenges of inclusion, growth and change. The Deputy President also met George Hollingberry, MP, Minister of State for Trade Policy, Department of International Trade. Among those who accompanied him is Manoah Esipisu, the Kenya’s High Commissioner to the United Kingdon. Click here for the latest political news