Central Bank of Kenya has projected an improved performance in Kenya’s hospitality sector in the first four months to April compared to same period last year. According to the Monitory Policy Committee Market Perception Survey released Tuesday, the hotel sector will have an aggregate booking of 46.8 per cent in four months to April this year compared to 41.6 per cent last year. The increase in average forward bookings in 2019 relative to 2018 is attributed mainly to improved business environment and enhanced security. Other factors driving bookings in 2019 included the growing conference and business tourism, the Valentine’s season’s bookings and resumption of corporate bookings in the New Year. In January, hotel bookings averaged at 38 per cent are expected to grow to 57 per cent this month before dropping to 45.5 per cent in March. Easter festivities will see bookings rise to 53 per cent. Last year, the sector was slowed by uncertainties and after effects of the long electioneering period. This saw it record 37 per cent hotel bookings in January, February 26.7, March 45 per cent. Bookings however shot to 57 per cent in April following the truce between President Uhuru Kenyatta and opposition chief Raila Odinga. Banking officials noted that big investments in both air and rail transport had contributed to reducing travel costs hence facilitating movement of tourists. The SGR was credited for improved hotel occupancy rates in destinations such as Mombasa, Voi, Taita, Tsavo and Amboseli due to the affordable cost and convenience. Growth in budget airlines such as Jambo Jet and Silverstone facilitated travel of foreign tourists from Nairobi entry point to other parts in the country. Security remains a major threat to the sector, with respondents from the hotel sector saying it hindered forward bookings. Despite a slow start last year, the country’s hospitality sector roared back to life on political stability, with tourism revenues growing to Sh157.38 billion from Sh119.0 billion the year before signaling a 68 per cent rise in guest arrivals. International tourists rose to 2.025 million from 1.46 million in 2017. The Survey sampled 377 chief executives from private sector firms comprising of 39 commercial banks, 1 mortgage finance institution, 13 micro-finance banks, and 324 non-bank private firms including 45 hotels.