Muthaiga’s professional Greg Snow is a heartbeat away from victory in the last round of the Safari Tour Golf Series following brilliant displays at Karen Country Club yesterday. Snow, who has already qualified for the Kenya Open, attributed his good run over the past three days to precision on the fairways. With one more round to spare, snow played a round of 1 under par 70 to improve his score to 3 under par 210 gross. He has a three-shot lead going into the last round today ahead of Mumias’ Dismas Indiza who played 1 under par 70 for a gross total of level par 210.. Greg was all smiles after finishing his round at the 18th hole. He bogeyed hole 3 in the front and parred the rest of the holes. In the back nine, Snow who played alongside Nduva and Indiza, sank in three birdies on the 12th, 13th and 17th but bogeyed hole 18. “I am hitting the fairways really well at the moment. However, I have realised I need to do a lot more on my short game. Today, I played one under which wasn’t that bad. The essence is to improve the score tomorrow and see how it goes,” said Snow adding: “The course was windy today and the pin positions quite tough but all in all, it’s been great feeling the course which host the Kenya Open.” Indiza was happy with the score at penultimate stage and said: “Although some players found the pin positions quite hard, all was good for me. One under on penultimate day isn’t a bad score and my short game isn’t that bad,” he said. Indiza and Snow are the only ones who have posted an under par gross total. Riz Charania shot 2 over par 73/for a total of 4 over par 217 to finish the day jointly third with amateur player Daniel Nduva. Nyali Club’s Nduva has slipped to joint third following a disappointing round of 4 over par 75. Nine players have qualified for the Kenya Open. They are Golf Park’s David Wakhu, Indiza, Greg Snow, Nelson Simwa, David Opayi of Windsor, Riz Charania, CJ Wangai of Sugona, Tony Omuli of Golf Park and Thika Sports Club resident professional Simon Ngige. The best three after the nine qualifiers today will fill the remaining 3 slots.