Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko has left many Kenyans in stitches with his fake American accent. Sonko unleashed his "hidden" accent as he delivered his speech during the Aids-Free Global forum in London. Attendees included politicians and medical experts from across the world who met to develop plans on tackling HIV together to create an Aids-free future. The governor pronounced words like city as “cirry”, headquarters as “headquarrers, significant as “signifcant”, and Kenya as “Kinya". Kenyans on Facebook have roasted the Governor. A user by the name Peter Mbogo said, "Sonko, unatweng sana. " Another user, Julius Jay Jay,‏ said, "I’m gonna ….cirry..landan cirry..I’m from Kinya." Brayan Boyka said, “Babayao amekushinda mara mia hiyo yako ni ya dj afro." "Hii kizungu ya Sonko ni ya Harvard," Vivien Ongaro said. John Waithaka said "Watched this video, listened to the entire speech and ooooh, waaah! The accent of our Governor! Pure English! You did us proud." "Someone might be coaching you queens accent nowadays," Mureithi M Patrick said. Abdiaziz DaQane Jr said, "Sonko is just a joke." "You used an American accent. Had you used the Brit accent, you could have secured Sh1 billion. Good job Mr Governor," Dawkins Abilla said. In his speech, Sonko said the funds from the Elton John Foundation will mainly go towards the provision of self-testing kits in a programme aimed at stopping new HIV infection by 2030 “We heard stories from those living with HIV in cities around the world and convened medical experts, campaigners, activists, to focus on the individual successes and challenges of each of our six campaign cities,” Sonko said. In November 2018, Sonko left many Kenyans in stitches with his fake American accent. He unleashed his "hidden" accent as he delivered his speech during the opening of the Sustainable Blue Economy Conference at KICC. Attendees included President Uhuru Kenyatta,  UN Habitat executive director Maimunah Mohammed and other dignitaries. The Governor pronounced words like city as “cirry” and President Uhuru’s Kenyatta’s name as “Kenyarra.” Read more :KOT roast Sonko after adopting fake American accent at conference Click here for the latest political news