The life of a developer is about as interesting as what I’m wearing, but I let Nick talk about his business as I gather my thoughts. “The key to being successful in my line of work,” he is saying, “Is location, location, location.” He goes on to tell me that a good location is not where you’re going to pay the highest price that doesn’t leave room to make a profit, but instead somewhere on a fringes of a good area. Which in time will become part of that good area. “I get that,” I say. “When people started buying plots in Runda, it was a bush bordering Kiambu. And now it’s considered the upmarket suburbs.” He nods. “Yes. But even better are those who, for less, bought the property surrounding Runda. They have literally reaped the benefits from someone else’s hard work.” “So you are a scavenger?” I ask. “Perhaps a misunderstood hunter,” he says. “Hyenas have a terrible reputation as cowardly scavengers, but they are actually very effective hunters. Seventy-five per cent of their food is from their own kills.” “So you’ll take hyena, huh?” “Yes… They have an acute sense of smell and can pick up decaying flesh from up to 4km away. That’s me. When most people see Runda, I see the potential around it.” I’m beginning to enjoy this conversation. I like a man with a brain. “So if the kill is 4km away, how do they make it there in time?” I ask. “They are fast and can maintain 50 km/hr over 5km,” he says. “They have stamina, too…” “I know all about the stamina part,” I say. The words are out of my mouth before I can help it. I didn’t mean to flirt and I certainly didn’t need to bring up that night at the office, but here we are.  He gives me a sidelong look, a smile dancing on his lips. “Well, look at you…” he says. I try and steer the conversation away from the sexual innuendo with some light humour. “I hear a hyena can feed 15kg in one sitting, so that explains the Santa girth.” Nick pats his pudgy stomach. “Ouch. Low blow,” he says. “You didn’t even need padding for your Santa suit,” I continue with a laugh. “I don’t remember you complaining that night,” he says. “I was your prey,” I respond. “We half-heartedly fight you off and give in to our fate.” “Actually the most effective way of prey staying alive in the jungle is playing dead when you’ve been caught,” he says. “Yes, I know all about tonic immobility,” I say. “Becoming temporarily paralysed and unresponsive is a feeling I have known all too well over the years.” “But not with me….” he says. “No, definitely not with you,” I respond. Oh, crap! I’m doing it again. Flirting. But what am I going to do? Lie? He was there. He saw me moaning and groaning, having the time of my life. Especially when that big Santa beard was buried in my thighs. Damn, that felt good. “Want to have a repeat session?” he asks. “What? Without the beard?” I ask in mock horror. “That was your greatest prop!” “I. Don’t. Need. Props…” he tells me, his voice deep and very low as he inflects every word. I believe him. Oh, boy, I’m beginning to get very turned on.