West Pokot Governor John Lonyangapuo’s convoy was attacked by police officers on the Kitale-Lodwar highway on Tuesday. The attackers were suspected to be officers from the Kainuk Administration Police camp, Turkana county. The governor was heading to a peace meeting in Takaywa village where one person was killed and more than 500 head of cattle stolen on Sunday afternoon. Police reservist David Domungura and Lonyangapuo said the APs shot at the convoy to block West Pokot leaders from holding the meeting. Investigations are underway. Lonyangapuo accused the security officers of taking sides and lacking proper coordination. He warned the youth against spreading hate messages on social media. The county chief blamed Turkana South MP James Lomenen for ruining peace efforts. “The police and some Turkana leaders wanted to block us from holding a meeting to help calm the situation after Sunday’s incident,” he said. Lonyangapuo appealed to Turkana leaders and security agencies to return the stolen animals, and urged leaders to preach peace. “The raid was stage-managed. We need the government to beef up security in all hotspots and disarm all those with illegal firearms,” he said. Also travelling with the county chief were county commissioner Apollo Okello, county police commander Mathew Kuto, MPs Samuel Moroto (Kapenguria), Peter Lochakapong (Sigor), Mark Lomunokol (Kacheliba), executives and journalists. The national police reservists who were escorting the governor exchanged fire with the AP officers. No one was injured. The APs were reportedly rushing a patient to Cherengani Nursing Home in Kitale town when they encountered the convoy. Okello said they were arrested. They recorded statements at the Kapenguria Police station. Okello urged residents to remain calm. During the fire exchange, Okello, journalists and the executives had to turn back to another road 2km away, while the governor and Kuto proceeded on the route as their vehicles were sprayed with bullets. They later teamed up at Sarimach, then headed for Takaywa. Earlier on Tuesday, Pokot and Turkana bandits engaged in shootouts at the counties’ border. One police reservist was shot dead. Residents held protests and disrupted transport. Motorists and villagers appealed to the government to step up security to restore order. MP Lomunokol criticised the government for lacking goodwill to end insecurity in the region. “We need security beefed up. Turkana County News social site has manufactured rumours and propaganda about the boundary issue,” he said. Moroto called on the government to investigate the police vehicle whose occupants attacked them. “We suspect the police are championing cattle theft in the region for their own benefit,” he said. The border remains volatile in the wake of frequent attacks. 