Traders in Homa Bay town have rejected relocation to give way for the upgrading of their market. The more than 2,500 small-scale traders do not want to be moved to Homa Bay county stadium and Rose Muhando grounds. The traders dared the county government to eject them, accusing it of poor planning. A section of the market was last Wednesday was burnt and an estimated Sh7.5 million worth of property reduced to ashes. Homa Bay Giant Traders Association Secretary General Simon Kwach and chairman Geoffrey Onduso said on Saturday they will not vacate because they were not consulted. They argued that the decision will affect many people and the county government needs to consult them before issuing such notices. “We got verbal communication from the Homa Bay town subcounty administrator that we’ll be moved out to to give way for construction of a modern market. Why come up with an idea and force it on people? We’ll not move,” Kwach said. Subcounty administrator Bernard Opande, however said they issued with a seven-day relocation notice but were planning to engage the traders before the deadline. “Some traders have misconstrued the information since the government had planned to meet them. The market needs to be improved and this will be done only after we agree,” Opande said. Opande said due to the misconception, the traders boycotted an earlier meeting between them and government officials. “Most of them claim consultations and public participation was not done but we aim putting things straight before we make any move,” he added. In their meeting at the market, the secretary said evicting the traders for modernisation of the market needs public participation for better understanding.  Kwach accused the county government of malice and questioned the motive behind the relocation. He wanted the traders to first be told what caused the fire that burnt the market. “It’s premature to tell traders they should relocate when they are yet to come to terms with the loss of property,” Kwach said. The traders said there are a number of activities conducted at places the county government wants to move them. “We don’t want to interfere with sports at the stadium while Rose Muhando is a recreational ground,” Onduso said.