Ten-man Gor Mahia proved too good for fourth-placed Tusker as they edged them 1-0 to move into second place on goal difference— two points behind leaders Bandari. However, Tusker coach Robert Matano immediately dismissed the win as day light robbery. “ The officiation was suspect. We were denied a goal and a penalty and Gor’s goal didn’t cross the line,” he claimed. He said for them it is time to look forward and keep pushing for the title. Nicholas Kipkirui was once again the hero, notching the winner 10 minutes into the second half to leave the brewers ruing a missed opportunity. “We made things difficult for ourselves with the sending off but after that I think we were the better team against a good side and we deserved the victory. We controlled the game and the victory should have been more comfortable with Sam (Onyango) missing a good chance in the end. I think we deserved to win,” said Gor coach Hassan Oktay in his post match remarks. Oktay will be relieved that the win against Matano’s brewers came without influential play-maker Francis Kahata. Tusker had three former Gor men in their starting 11 including defender Lloyd Wahome, winger Kevin Omondi and striker Timothy Otieno with the trio particularly eager to impress. After a subdued start, the game was livened up when a rush of adrenaline from error-prone first choice shot stopper Boniface Oluoch midway through the first half put Gor’s hopes of getting victory in jeopardy as he was sent off for a high footed lunge on former team-mate Omondi. Winger George Odhiambo was immediately sacrificed making way for Shabaan Odhonji to take his place in goal. Despite a succession of promising moves initiated by Peter Nzuki and Jackson Macharia, the brewers never truly tested Odhonji’s resolve was the goal-less scoreline held to half-time with Gor looking in control despite their numerical disadvantage. You would have thought the brewers would go full throttle for victory after the break but instead it was the champions who looked in charge. In the 56th minute, their attack paid off when Kipkirui bundled home Shaffique Batambuze’s corner to leave Tusker with all to do. With their noses in front Ernest Wendo replaced hardworking Lawrence Juma for the final quarter of the match. Soon after, Onyango should have doubled Gor’s lead when sent clear but he could not make the opportunity count with only Emery to beat. The brewers shot stopper then produced a one handed save to push away Charles Momanyi’s header. Tuyisenge, who was having an unusually quiet game as Wahome watched over him like an eagle, had a sight of goal fifteen minutes from time but he too could not add to K’Ogalo’s advantage. The brewers striker Otieno thought he had pulled his side level but his goal was disallowed for an infringement in the build up. Tuyisenge was replaced in the final moments by Dennis Oliech but even he could not convert another goal to match the defending champions dominance. Gor will now shift their attention to two crucial Caf Confederation Cup duels in North Africa, first with NA Hussein Dey in Algeria on Sunday and with Zamalek in Cairo five days later. Consequently, according to a post by Ulinzi Stars, their tie on Wednesday next week with Gor has been postponed.