The Siaya county assembly has been asked to reject seven chief officer nominees presented by Governor Cornel Rasanga. Gem and West Asembo residents in Rarieda forwarded their complaints last week to county speaker George Okode. They cited lack of regional and gender balance in the governor’s appointees. Rasanga sent the list of seven nominees to the county assembly for vetting and approval on January 22. On Wednesday, Okode asked the assembly to look into the residents’ petition and come up with the way forward. Rasanga said the nominees have been interviewed by the Public service Board and are “fit for approval”. He was satisfied that the seven are up to the task and the assembly should as such approve them. The governor’s appointees are Samuel Owino (Public Health), Charles Siso (Agriculture) and Rosemary Akinyi (Livestock). The others are Henry Ouma (Education), Joseph Omondi (Youth Affairs), Nicholas Kut (Governance) and Javan Otieno (Housing). Okode said he will take their grievances into consideration before vetting. West Asembo MCA Ambrose Akuno, who also wrote to the speaker asking him to halt the process, accused Rasanga of sidelining “his people” because of political interests. “This is unfair of the governor that even after sidelining Asembo people in his cabinet, he wants to present another unbalanced list of chief officers without our people,” the ward representative said. He said residents will meet next week on Friday at the chief’s camp to discuss the issue. According to Akuno, the acting Finance chief officer is not on the list of nominees because he is from Asembo. “Such kind of discrimination will not be entertained in this democratic era unless the governor is testing waters.” In October last year, the MCAs accused Rasanga of failing to constitute his government as per the law. Central Alego MCA Leonard Oriaro said the governor breached the law by appointing nine acting chief officers. He said the governor single-handedly appointed nine chief officers six months into office without consulting the county public service board and the assembly. Oriaro said if the governor feels that those acting are the best, he should forward their names to the assembly for vetting.