Mumias long-hitter Dismas Indiza and Muthaiga’s Greg Snow are among the local professionals who have qualified for the 2019 Magical Kenya Open slated for March 14-17 at the Karen Country Club. The duo are among the nine local professionals who made the Kenya team slots following the conclusion of Safari Tour series which ended yesterday at Windsor Country Club. The two players finished joint eighth at the Safari Tour qualifying cut-off for the Kenya Open—pushing the number of players qualifying to nine. Resident professional Rizwan Charania also joins the Kenya team after emerging winner of the final round of Safari Tour. Charania, who has led the KOGL-sponsored event from Day 1 on Sunday, ended his four-day campaign with 1-under par 71 for a gross total of 3-under par 218. Charania takes the third spot on the Road to Kenya Open ranking on 79 points. He has played at the Kenya Open 14 times with his best finish coming in 2017. Snow leads the team of nine professional players having accrued a total of 113.5 points across the six Safari Tour. Snow has been dominant, taking maximum points in four of the six Safari Tour events, to occupy top spot in the ‘Road to Kenya Open’ campaign. He has featured at the Kenya Open 11 times with his best finish coming in 2014 when he finished 10th. Indiza amassed 111 points after a consistent performance across the Safari Tour to finish second. Indiza has featured at the Kenya Open 19 times with his best finish being tenth in the 2008 edition. David Wakhu, who won the Nyali Golf and Country Club leg of the tour, finished fourth on the log with a total of 72 points while the Professional Golfers of Kenya captain John Wangai took fifth spot with 68.5 points. He has featured at the Kenya Open on six occasions. Thika Club’s Simon Ngige took the sixth qualification slot with 66.5 points and will be gracing his 13th Kenya Open tournament while Golf Park’s Tony Omuli will be taking part in his seventh having finished in seventh with 53.5 points. Vet Lab Sports Club’s Nelson Simwa and Windsor’s David Opati tied for eighth with 51 points apiece to complete the list of nine Kenyan players at this year’s tournament. The nine pros join six amateur players who have already qualified to play at this year’s event. They are Daniel Nduva, Samuel Njoroge, Mike Kisia, Edwin Mudanyi, Bradley Mogire and Mutahi Kibugu. In winning the last round of the Road to Kenya Open series, Riz took home Sh450,000 in prize money.