Going by their results in the league so far, Mt. Kenya United have a steep hill to climb to avoid what now looks like their inevitable fate—relegation. Today, they clash with unbeaten league leaders Mathare United in a top versus bottom clash at Moi Stadium, Kasarani. The team, formerly known as Nakumatt, are the only side yet to register victory among the 18 in the top flight league. However, under their returning coach Melis Medo, they will take heart from their last performance at the same venue where only a last minute goal by Ulinzi Stars denied them their first victory of the campaign. Second-placed Bandari will want to quickly erase the memories of the last six days when they lost both SportPesa Cup final and their unbeaten run in quick succession. The dockers return to home comfort to prepare for the visit of AFC Leopards, who are enduring yet another miserable campaign as they struggle closer to the bottom of the table than the top. Many pundits aver that this could yet be the year Kariobangi Sharks win their first ever top flight crown. All the positive forecasts for William Muluya’s boys are down to their recent trophy haul and a winner’s mentality—a habit that will take time to ditch. Resurgent Sofapaka are their opponents today as they bid to maintain their unbeaten start to the season. There is no respite for beleaguered Posta Rangers as they come against title contenders Tusker in a clash that may yet seal the fate of coach John Kamau who is barely a month into the job. The mailmen have lost all their matches since the national under-20 coach took charge and it is unlikely the top brass at Teleposta will countenance another defeat. KCB and Zoo Kericho were fingered out as potential candidates for relegation. The performances of the two teams that go head to head at the Green stadium though have gone contrary to the doomsday predictions of many as both are now points away from the bottom two. Kakamega Homeboyz produced arguably the performance of the campaign so far to end Bandari’s unbeaten streak. Tellingly, it came days after their coach Paul Nkata had gone missing as he was shockingly accused of match fixing by no less than Homeboyz owner Cleophas Shimanyula. That performance, under player coach Allan Wanga, who scored twice in the 4-0 win, heralded the dawn of a new era after a run of four successive defeats. Homeboyz will hope to maintain the feel good factor with victory over neighbours Vihiga United. Mid table sides Nzoia Sugar and Sony Sugar will duel for three points at  the Sudi Stadium.