The
Jubaland state presidential election in southern Somalia slated later this year
in August is the next big political duel attracting huge interests locally,
regionally and internationally. The state
is currently headed by Sheikh Ahmed Mohamed Islam better known as Ahmed Madoobe
or Blackie, who was elected in May 2013 after leading a Somali force to
recapture the southern port city of Kismayo from al Shabaab with the help of
Kenya. Already,
political realignments and behind the scenes agreements by politicians have
started ahead of the election in which locally elected Jubaland MPs will vote. The
incumbent, president Madoobe, is confident of retaining his seat amid frenzy
support by his backers and supporters against a growing criticism by his
opponents, who accuse him of being totalitarian.  GOOD TEST So, why is
Jubaland election important for Kenyans? It is seen as a good test to gauge the
impact of the Kenya Defence Forces presence in thee state they greatly helped
in its formation after jointly capturing the capital city, Kismayo, in 2012
with the help of Madoobe's forces. For
ordinary Somalis, including those in Jubaland, the election is welcomed and is
seen as an indication of normalcy returning to their war-ravaged country should
election be held and power peacefully transferred in case of a change in
leadership. Official
campaigns are yet to start but some politicians are said to be eyeing the
lucrative position of Somalia's richest Federal State endowed with fertile
farmlands, rich grazing fields and a long and beautiful coastline rich with
marine resources. With pristine white sandy beaches, the region has a huge
tourism potential. So far, those
said to be interested in the race include a former Somalia Information minister
and a Madoobe critic Abdullahi Ciilmooge Hirsi and Sheikh Dahir, a former close
ally and a relative to Madoobe who fought alongside him in the recapture of
Kismayo. Several other politicians, including some now serving in the national
government, are said to be holding secret counsels with their constituents with
a view of joining the race.  LAST CARD According
to political analysts, Madobe enjoys massive support in Jubaland and is likely
to increase his support base and re-election bid with his latest push to
recapture al Shabaab held territories in Jubaland. His forces recently captured
Hagar town and are said to be marching towards Buale, seat of the Middle Juba
region and a strategic town. This is his last card to show off during
campaigns. “If president Ahmed
Madoobe is able to enlarge his political territory by capturing more al Shabaab
held areas as he is currently doing, then that military success can be
transformed into a political success or public support. Thus, the current
military campaign is likely increase Madoobe’s popularity and help in his reelection
bid,” Prof Hassan Sheikh Ali said. He teaches
International Relations, Political Science and Diplomatic Studies at Mogadishu
and Simad Universities in Mogadishu. Asked what tangible
results Madoobe achieved in his first term, Prof Hassan pointed at the
increased security and safety in Kismayo, the seaside Jubaland capital as his
biggest achievement, which has helped boost trade and expand development
opportunities for his people. “His term faced criticism
from different circles. However, many people appreciate his firm and
authoritativeness to guarantee order in Kismayo, the third largest city in
Somalia,” Prof Hassan said.  SECRET
MEETINGS Madoobe has also been
active meeting Somali leaders at home and in Kenya in his bid to win a second
term. In mid-December last year, he held a secret meeting in Garissa, Kenya,
with prominent elders and politicians. And just recently, two prominent Kenyan
politicians from Garissa met secretly with President Mohamed Abdullahi Farmaajo
in Mogadishu to try to diffuse tensions between him and Madoobe, and urged the
Somalia President to support Madobe. As a result of that
meeting and a more recent face to face meeting between the two in Garowe,
Puntland, during the swearing-in of the new state president, the Somalia
government has since released funds to state government to help in the fight
against al Shabaab. Sometime last year, the Somalia government donated $250,000
to Jubaland Humanitarian Response following flush floods after river Juba burst
its banks. The central government
goodies to Jubaland were capped off with donations of armoured personnel
carriers, which were part of the 68 APC’s recently donated by Qatar as a show
of their goodwill.  HUGE
INTERESTS I am sure Madoobe is
wary of Farmaajo’s latest camaraderie approach as the President is known to
only support members of his “Nabad iyo Nolol” or Peace and Prosperity party —
of which he is not — to take over the mantle in the federal states. He recently
orchestrated such a move by installing Abdiaziz Laftagaren in South West State
of Somalia, who is part of a wider scheme to help him in his own reelection in
2020, when Somalia goes to the polls. Many Somalis believe
the Jubaland election is attracting huge interest from regional states and
western powers because of its rich resources and think such external interests
are likely to have an impact on the upcoming election. “Somalia politics as
usual attracts external actors who are part of the game and will play a crucial
role in different capacities depending on their interests. The Frontline States
because of their national security concerns will be active in influencing their
choice. Arab states, particularly the wealthy ones, are known to bankroll
candidates to buy their loyalty for geopolitical, security and economic
reasons. The major powers, including the Americans and European powers, will be
there for their so-called war on terror as well as geopolitical and resources interests
such as gas, oil and fishing, which are the most important for them,”  