Bennie Warren, author of Managing People is Like Herding Cats, borrowed the intriguing title from real-life petting of felines. He was probably thinking of an Irish farmhand in Oklahoma, taking the English master’s pets for a walk. The Irish couldn’t bring the 12 cats to order. Each feline was excited in its own way. Each was irritating in its own way. Each had its own sense of freedom. There was no shared vision. Pulling the felines by the noose wasn’t advised. The cats were supposed to enjoy the evening stroll. The farmhand knew better than to lose a cat. He wasn’t supposed to allow the felines to mix with neighbourhood cats – that would defile the breed. The handler also had his own idea of what the master wanted. It wasn’t working for the Irish; it wasn’t working for the master. The shoving wasn’t working for the cats. The cats’ freedom of excitement was curtailed. The author was probably empathising with President Uhuru Kenyatta in the decadent Kenya of 2019. Uhuru has been herding cats for a year now. The assignment is hectic. The irritation shows in his public mien. The President is lonely in a crowded polity of faint morality, order, and integrity. Ethnic loyalty, greed, materialism, political correctness, patronage, cronyism, and sycophancy have created a cat mentality among state officers. Herein lies the dilemma of a leader who expects change through actors grilled on routine. A society where pilfering public funds, and then bribing investigative agencies, come with the job description. ‘Eating from where you work’ has generated anarchic plunder of public resources. Those at the top, and those below, belong to a secret society where everyone is assumed corrupt. Malice hounds you out if you prove otherwise. Then there is stubborn hope. Uhuru hopes to restore good manners in a polity where accountability is on leave. Investigators, police, prosecutors and courts are absorbed in the anarchy. One needs to be mad to break the paralysis of accountability. Uhuru is the author of a moral regeneration agenda that isn’t percolating. This leaves the President a lonely voice in the wilderness. In this wilderness lives actors who believe they are entitled to corruption. When caught, they believe they are entitled to legal protection. You steal 100, then spend 20 of the booty on lawyers. The President is angry. His delegates don’t get the message. Those getting the message are not producing deterrent results. The President’s voice is coarse. His eyes are teary as he tries so hard to herd excitable public cats. The anti-corruption crusade is wobbling. The monster got wilder, as Transparency International confirms in its latest Corruption Perception Index. Kenya scores a failing 27 out of 100; 16 points below the international average, and far below Africa’s mean. It’s not the courts alone that are derailing the President’s agenda. It is not the prosecution alone that’s below speed in processing corruption cases. It is not the investigating agencies alone that undermine the President’s legacy. Suspects are using proceeds of corruption to infiltrate the system. They are using insiders to pollute evidence, and delay cases. They are using proceeds of impunity to derail justice. Mercenary lawyers have intensified the crisis. The buck should not stop with the courts, which rely on evidence from investigators. The buck should not stop with prosecution, which relies on evidence to administer justice. The anti-corruption court now has 10 magistrates, up from four, working daily, past official time. Let’s see if the shortage of staff or shorter working hours were the reasons for case backlog and friendly bail terms. It’s the investigators, generally, and the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission, particularly, that undermine the President’s attempt to reclaim integrity in public office. The President’s office knows it’s not new information that the buck stops with the EACC, whose mandate is to fight graft. An agency that often turns on whistle-blowers instead of trailing suspects. Whip and streamline the EACC to break the nexus of corruption. There are lots of evidence shelved there. Twalib Mbarak, the new broom at the EACC, must look across the window to make an impact within his first 100 days in office. kendowuonkendo@gmail.com