President Uhuru Kenyatta has said he will ensure high profile people incriminated in corruption scandals are arrested in the next few days. The President assured Kenyans that they will soon see action being taken against the suspects if they do not return stolen public resources. “Kenyans need hospitals, roads, electricity and jobs and that cannot be achieved through the get-rich-quick way but through sweat and hard work,” the President said. The President said the government has also put efforts to reinforce the Directorate of Criminal Investigations and appointed people who are ready to work. The Directorate of Public Prosecutions has also been streamlined, he said and is now waiting for corruption suspects to be charged in court. “Today morning, I was in a meeting with the Judiciary and I reminded them that Kenyans are tired and watching them.” “I reminded them that we saw a young man being arrested for sneaking his child out of a hospital and was charged and convicted on the same day. Why not do they do the same with those accused of stealing billions?” the President wondered. He cautioned the judiciary that if they do not do what Kenyans want, it may reach a point where people may resort to taking action. The President was speaking at Gitui in Kiharu constituency, Murang’a County during the burial ceremony of tycoon Kamau Thayu Kabugi who he eulogized as a hard-working businessman who worked for years before amassing wealth. Read: Judiciary not immune to snare of corruption - Uhuru He said the tycoon had left a good example to his family and Kenyans to work hard to get riches saying some Kenyans wake up with nothing and then get rich within days using public resources. “We cannot continue with this trend,” the President said. He said he does not want to see leaders politicking every time they stand on a podium saying they should know that Kenyans do not listen to them. ODM leader Raila Odinga on his part said Kenya has become like the biblical Sodom and Gomorrah with the many graft scandals being unearthed in the media. Raila termed corruption suspects as enemies of the country, noting that fighting corruption is one of the nine agenda penned in the Memorandum of Understanding that he signed when he decided to work with the President. “We have to fight corruption without mercy so our country can move on as a free nation,” Raila said. Murang’a leaders including governor Mwangi wa Iria, senator Irungu Kang’ata, area MP Ndindi Nyoro and woman representative Sabina Chege also attended the ceremony. Click here for the latest political news