Kenyan scientists have unveiled a new kit to test human Rift Valley fever. The kit was first conceived by researchers from the Kenya Medical Research Institute in 2012. Kemri’s head of research and development Dr Allan Kwallah said the kit, called ImmunoLine, will be the first rapid diagnostic kit for human RFV in Kenya. It will be available commercially within six months and will be manufactured in Kenya. On-site kit manufacturing at Kemri has big potential to tackle s infectious diseases and non-infectious diseases in Kenya and the East African Community, he said in Nairobi yesterday. He addressed the  Kemri Annual Scientific and Health Conference. Rift Valley Fever is a viral disease that primarily affects animals but can also infect humans. Most cases are relatively mild, but severe cases can kill. The majority of human infections result from direct or indirect contact with the blood or organs of infected animals. No human-to-human transmission of RVF has been documented. Kwallah said until now, no commercial vaccine for humans or rapid tests have been available for prevention and containment of  RFV. “The lack of tests puts the costs of managing the disease very high in humans,” Dr Kwallah said, “If all the regulatory approvals are done on schedule, we will be able to commercialise the kit within six months.” Each test will cost less than Sh1,500, he said. The brand name ImmunoLine has been registered at the Kenya Industrial Property Institute and the design of the box for the product has been finalised. He said the kit will also be used for patients suffering from unknown fevers. It is easy for any medical personnel to administer the test. Results are fast, within 30 minues. It can be used at small clinics in rural areas where patients can be referred for treatment. It’s important  for early detection and containment of outbreaks. In August last year, Kilifi county ordered the closure of slaughterhouses and banned supply of red meat following an outbreak of Rift Valley fever.