The Kwale ODM branch is pushing for expulsion of rebel Msambweni MP Suleiman Dori from the party. In a meeting on Tuesday, party members said Dori’ is damaging the party’s image in the county. ODM Kwale vice chair Nicholas Zani says the party will appear indecisive and tolerant to errant members. Dori and his Malindi counterpart Aisha Jumwa have been openly backing Deputy President William Ruto’s bid for president in 2022.Expulsion has been recommended by the disciplinary committee. The fina decision on expulsion will be made by ODM’s National Governing Council. “We wanted Dori expelled as early as seven years ago. We rejected him earlier and this is the second time we are rejecting him because he does not follow party rules,” Zani said. Anyone who gets the party ticket to vie for any seat has an upper hand because of the party’s popularity in Msambweni. The branch members however have not settled on a preferred candidate. Doubts have emerged about the strength of Omar Boga, Dori’s main challenger. Dori is defiant. On Saturday, he said he is confident of winning his seat back should there be a by-election. “Leadership comes from God. He will decide if I will be re-elected,” Dori said. The MP beat Boga, the former Bongwe-Gombato MCA in ODM nominations in 2017. Boga has remained vocal against the MP. On Wednesday, Zani told the Star he is 100 per cent behind Dori’s expulsion. “It is not me as a person but me as vice chair of ODM Kwale branch,” he said on phone. Insiders say Zani is pushing for the direct nomination of Boga if Dori is expelled. The National Governing Council is to meet this month to decide on expulsion and other issues. Should the council choose to expel the duo for their continued support for Ruto, the speaker of the National Assembly will declare the seats vacant and announce by-elections. Already, there is jostling for Dori’s position in anticipation of a by-election. Zani denies he is pushing for Boga’s direct nomination. “What is strong here is the party. For us we still support him but that decision is made by the National Elections Boards. From the mood it’s going to be Boga,” Zani said. While Puma MCA Dawa Ngome warned against underestimating candidates’ strength, he called for the usual competitive nomination procedures. “Kwale people want a normal procedure of nomination. That’s when the party grows strong,” he told the Star on phone. In Malindi, Jumwa says there will be no by-election and that she will remain MP until 2022. The MP has, however, been seeking support from Kilifi Governor and county ODM chair Amason Kingi. On Saturday, she praised Kingi’s leadership, saying it more respect than Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho’s style. She calls it manipulative and combative. On Tuesday, Kingi told party members to respect ODM and either follow the party rule or resign. Analysts said this wa Kingi’s way of ending speculation that Jumwa has his backing. Kilifi North MP Owen Baya has defended Jumwa saying the party stands to lose should it expel her. In Dori’s situation, most elected leaders in Kwale have been silent on the expulsion issue. Jumwa’s friends and foes in Kilifi county have been outspoken.