Newly crowned Safari Tour champion Greg Snow believes Kenyans are better prepared than ever ahead of the 51st Magical Kenya Open slated for Karen Country Club from March 14-17. The event’s title sponsors this year are Magical Kenya powered by ABSA. Snow will alongside his Mumias counterpart shoulder Kenya’s hopes of keeping the event’s maroon jacket on home soil. No Kenyan has won the Kenya Open since inception in 1967 and Snow thinks the regular local tournaments they have played like the just concluded Safari Tour series will come in handy. Speaking a day after being crowned the Safari Tour champion, Snow sounded quite enthusiast of his exploits. His good run on the Safari Tour earned him the StarTimes/SJAK Sports Personality of the Month of January following a sterling performance on his Muthaiga home course. “It’s been a great five months and like I said, I have put in a lot of hard work. I believe Kenyans are better prepared than ever before and this is a clear indication that we could spring some surprises in as far as the tournament cut is concerned. I have had a good Safari Tour and the plan will be to go into the Kenya Open in similar spirit and fashion.” Snow said he will take a couple of days off after the forthcoming Karen tournament before launching his final phase of preparations for the Kenya Open. Snow started playing golf at the age of 6 in Kiambu inspired by his father John Snow and his brother Paul who played in the UK. He became a member at Muthaiga at the age of 10 years and played there as a junior till the age of 16. From 2008 to 2012 Snow landed a golf scholarship at the Odessa Golf College and played very competitively in North and South Carolina, Virginia and Georgia prior to turning pro in Kenya 2013. Yesterday, Snow savoured StarTimes SJAK Sports Personality of the Month of January 2019. The go-getting pro beat reigning Dubai Marathon 2019 winner Ruth Chepngetich, Kabras rugby star Philip Wakorach and tennis star Angela Okutoyi who won the ITF Under 16 Nairobi Championship doubles. For his gritty putts and strokes, Snow took home a personalised trophy, 42Inch StarTimes Digital TV and Ksh. 100,000 prize money. He becomes the 19th winner of the award since its inception in 2017. In January Snow kept his impressive form going into his home club, to claim his third Safari title and his fourth top prize money win, of the 2018/19 Safari Tour series season. Snow had played an impressive round of 7-under par in round 3. Speaking during the award ceremony, StarTimes Kenya Marketing Director Japheth Akhulia said: “Some Sports Personalities who are beneficiaries of this award have gone ahead and made it big at global or continental level. They include rally ace Manvir Baryan who went on to clinch the FIA African Rally Championship and Eliud Kipchoge who made the sixth man shortlist for the Laureus Sports Personality of the year Award alongside great sports personalities like Lewis Hamilton and footballer Luka Modric of Croatia. Who knows? Snow might surprise us by winning next month’s Kenya Open or the Sunshine Tour sanctioned KCB Karen Masters in June.”