An assessment by the anti-corruption commission has revealed that the Embu county Executive does not have title deeds to land for public health facilities. The commission says in a risk assessment report that there are inefficiencies in systems at the Executive that might lead to corruption. The report says the Executive does not have ownership documents for its fixed assets. The list of assets is incomplete as it does not disclose keyinformation such as serial number, value and location of the assets. “Most of the county executive premises, including the headquarters, were not insured against the risk of fire and some vehicles were still using green plates used by the previous local authorities,” the report reads. Offices at headquarters have leaking roofs and leaking water could lead to destruction of records and other items. The Executive was faulted for violating procurement laws by purchasing items it had not planned for in the 2014-15 financial year. “The county Executive procured 110 dairy goats valued at Sh1.6 million and did not provide a copy of the requisition for the purchase of the goats,” the commission said. The county Executive lacks a comprehensive staff roll, making it difficult to determine which staff are hired permanently and on contract. The wage bill increased by nine per cent from Sh2.3 billion in 2015-16 fto Sh2.5 billion in 2016-17. That represents 44.2 percent of the total expenditure, the EACC report says. The Embu Executive lacks policies to guide engagement of casual workers and some of them had been employed by the county for more than three months. The commission said this is a violation of the law and provides loopholes for irregular recruitment of excess labour, bloating the wage bill. ‘cancel 100 contracts’ The county Executive was also faulted for failing to remit taxes to the Kenya Revenue Authority. “This is contrary to the law and a weakness that may lead to penalties and interest from the Kenya Revenue Authority,” the EACC says. The report further reveals that the Executive does not have qualified personnel to operate equipment it had procured. It also had notrepaired a CT scan machine that broke down in June 2016. “In some instances, the county executive initiated procurement without providing adequate budgetary allocations, a weakness that can lead to pending bills and substandard work,” the report reads. The EACC also reveals that the county executive awarded contracts to the second lowest bidder without justification. For instance, it had awarded a tender of Sh4.2 million to Crissam Acres, the second-lowest bidder. The lowest bidder had quoted Sh3.6 million to rehabilitate Gachoka stadium. The anti-graft body says the Executive issues documents such as business permits that do not have adequate security features, which makes forgery easy. “There was inadequate storage space for accountable documents which saw some documents being stored on the floor and others on tables,” the commission says. The county executive was faulted for failing to facilitate officials with transport, computers, adequate office accommodation and staff identification cards. Last year, the Embu County Contractors Association called for the cancellation of more than 100 contracts worth Sh168 million awarded by the county government. They accused some county officers of financial irregularities and discrimination in awarding of the tenders.