 We were all
shocked when on February16, Kenya announced it had summoned its Somalia
ambassador and that it also sent back the Somalia Ambassador to Kenya. This was
protest to news that Somalia had apparently auctioned off an oil and gas rich
maritime blocks contested by both countries. Well, it is
now emerging that the diplomatic row between Nairobi and Mogadishu could be as
a result of an internal power struggle inside Somalia rather than the
much-reported scramble for oil and gas deposits located in a disputed area of
the two countries maritime border. We know the
Kenya-Somalia maritime dispute is not new as it actually came into the
limelight way back in 2014, and Somalia took the matter a year later before the
International Court of Justice where the case is still pending. It is worth
noting that the said oil and gas rich disputed maritime border area is technically
located in Kenya-Jubaland state of Somalia common sea border in the South of
Somalia. Coincidentally, this is the same State that was liberated by Kenya
Defence Forces in 2012 from al Shabaab.  KENYAN ALLY Now, the
Jubaland state presidential election is scheduled for August. President Ahmed Mohamed Islam aka Ahmed Madoobe is a darling of Kenya
as he fought alongside KDF to wrestle al Shabaab out of Kismayo, the capital
city of Jubaland state. He is the favourite to retain the position and is
considered Kenya's main ally in Somalia. However, it
is not the case with the Somalia ruling party "Nabad iyo Nolol" or
Peace and Prosperity Party of President Mohamed Abdullahi Farmaajo, which
opposes Madoobe out of Farmaajo's own re-election bid in 2020 when Somalia is
expected to hold its national elections. The ruling party sees  Madobe as a threat to its ascendancy to
power. In my
previous Soomal column posts, I have explained how the five federal states of
Somalia — Puntland, South West, Galmudug, HirShabelle and Jubaland, hold the key
to who wins the next Somalia presidency because members of Somalia's next
parliament, who will elect the President, will themselves be elected from these
federal dtates.  If you
control a federal state in Somalia you are likely to decide who becomes an MP
and in turn directly ensure a block presidential vote from that same dtate.
This is Farmaajo's biggest headache and also his main objective. He wants to
control these states to help him amass enough MPs to vote for him in 2020.  CONSTITUTIONAL
HICCUP Sources in
Mogadishu privy to the alleged Somalia's February 7 London
marketing of its hydrocarbons said Mogadishu has not sold any oil and gas
blocks and that legally it cannot do so at th3ee moment.  This is because the country lacks the
constitutional regulation and mandated institution to manage, guide and oversee
such a huge public investment. Talking of
the constitution, Somalia lacks a petroleum law as it has not been passed by
parliament and National Petroleum Authority, which is the public entity,
mandated to manage and oversee all petroleum-related matter is also yet to be
formed. Could the
government really have proceeded with an unconstitutional sale of its
hydrocarbons? Which companies would risk buying off a disputed and more
seriously unconstitutionally floated blocks? I don't think
so. Even the
Somalia parliament and the senate came out gun blazing when Kenya accused
Somalia of illegally floating the country’s hydrocarbons resources without the
necessary constitutional framework. ARTIFICIAL
CRISIS The sources
said that the whole hullabaloo about the alleged oil and gas sale was/is simply
aimed at irking Kenya to react, and that is exactly what happened last Saturday.
The brains behind the move created an artificial political crisis with the hope
to benefit should Kenya fall to their well-calculated move, which is to
ultimately force Kenya to withdraw its forces from Jubaland. If this
happens, they believe it will give them a leeway to rig the election and
install their man in Kismayo. What they
fail to comprehend is that KDF is now an African Union peacekeeping force.
Kenya has no authority over its soldiers in Somalia. As such, their withdrawal
in Somalia can only be approved by the AU, not Kenya. The Somalia ruling
party recently defied all, including international pressure in South West State
presidential election in Baidoa, to install their man, Abdiaziz Laftagareen at
the helm in a sham election preceded by a bloodbath following the killing of 15
innocent protesters. I will not be
surprised if indeed it turns out to be true that they manufactured this oil and
gas crisis with the hope of turning it into a political advantage in their
favour. Power can easily blind you to desperately do anything to cling to that
power. Whatever the
case, the upcoming Jubaland election is turning out to be a decisive election
in Somalia, which needs to be carefully observed because its bound to cause an
upset and is likely to stir more controversy because the stakes are so high.  POLITICAL
TRICKS Remember
also, whoever wins the Jubaland race will be an integral figure should the time
comes to auction those disputed maritime blocks as it falls under his
jurisdiction. If that is the case, why wouldn't Mogadishu not try all tricks,
including faking the said sell as it just did, to be ahead of the game? Just like a
game of chess, in politics you never hesitate to trick your opponent into a
trap for the ultimate goal — to win. It is highly
possible that we have been tricked to think of the sale of the disputed oil and
gas blocks to give them an edge during negotiations to pressure Kenya from
dropping their man Madoobe in Kismayo in turn for Mogadishu to let go of the
alleged sale until it is resolved by the ICJ. Somalia already hinted this in
their statement released after Kenya's reaction. I believe,
this is the politics behind the Somalia-Kenya diplomatic row. 