The National Cohesion and Integration Commission has condemned the conflict in parts of Baringo, Turkana and West Pokot. Secretary Hassan Mohamed said the violence is triggered by reckless remarks made by some politicians. "This has led to clashes in the area leading to deaths, injuries, massive destruction of property and displacement of families," Mohamed said in a statement to newsrooms. He said the violence is a major setback to the fragile peace that had been realised in the region. "We wish to caution political leaders from these regions to desist from making inflammatory remarks and instead look for lasting solutions to the conflict," Mohamed said. He said the commission in partnership with other law enforcement agencies are monitoring the situation and will take action against any person inciting communities to violence. Read: 5,000 children fearful of bandits, stay away from Baringo schools The Commission further urged the communities to exercise patience and tolerance while desisting from taking the law into their hands. Last week, five National Police Reservists were killed and an unknown number of livestock stolen after bandits attacked Arabal in Baringo South. Baringo County Police Commander Robinson Ndiwa said the incident occurred when the brazen bandits raided two Tugen manyattas at 3 am. The reservists were killed at the scene. "We have already deployed GSU, RDU and NPR officers to pursue the aggressors who have driven away the animals towards Chepkalacha in Tiaty East," Ndiwa said. The police boss said tension is high in the area and urged residents to stay calm. "This took people by surprise because the place was peaceful. Nobody expected an attack even the relaxed herders had left their animals to graze freely," Ndiwa said. However, Marigat-based human rights activist Amos Ol’empaka asked the government to urgently deploy a surveillance helicopter to pursue the bandits with the stolen livestock. Read: Five police reservists killed, livestock stolen in Baringo bandit attack Also See: Do something about Baringo violence, Uhuru too busy, Gideon Moi told