Another showdown looms between Jubilee and ODM after Deputy President William Ruto on Friday pledged to “stop at nothing” to clinch the Wajir West MP seat. He said Jubilee will put its best foot forward “to teach our competitors a lesson” in the by-election on April 25. “We, as Jubilee, will leave nothing to chance,” Ruto said at the party’s headquarters in Pangani, Nairobi. The DP presented immediate former MP Ahmed Kolosh as the party’s candidate. He decamped from ODM. “This is a very important by-election for us. For every reason, probability and intent, we must win,” Ruto said. Kolosh said he was sorry for the negative propaganda he used in 2017, saying, “This time I’m at home ...“Part of the reason Jubilee lost is because of me. I did and said all manner of things. This time round, it’s a sure bet,” he said. Secretary general Raphael Tuju and National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale were present. Kolosh left ODM after the Supreme Court overturned his election. The court said petitioner Abdirahman Mohamed of Kanu had proved that the results in two polling stations — Qara and Korich — were manipulated to favour Kolosh. ODM has already unveiled university scholar Professor Yusuf Elmi to fly its flag. The high-stakes poll will renew the rivalry between the two parties. Political sentiments are expected to boil over in coming weeks as Jubilee takes ODM head on. This is seen as a mid-term test for both outfits ahead of the 2022 face-off. The DP’s presence during the ticket presentation to Kolosh highlighted the significance of the by-election for Jubilee. It seeks to stamp its 100 per cent presence in the Northeastern county of Wajir. During the 2017 polls, Jubilee swept all the parliamentary and county seats but Wajir West. The constituency has been in the opposition for many decades. It will be an uphill task for Kolosh to break the jinx in a county where ODM is also keen to remain relevant. “We lost in Wajir West in 2017 because we did not have a candidate. This time things are different. Now that we have a candidate we are stopping at nothing to capture the seat,” Ruto declared. Read: We'll teach ODM bitter lesson in Wajir West by-election - Ruto He urged candidates to reject divisive politics. “I encourage our competitors to pull up their socks. Let’s compete on the platform of issues and ideas of taking Kenya forward. That’s what Kenyans expect at the very least,” he said. This is the second time Jubilee is fielding a candidate in a by-election after the 2017 polls. The ruling party fielded Charles Kamuren who won the Baringo South by-election last year. Ruto reminded Wajir West residents that they should support the Jubilee administration because of the “robust development master plan” it has for them. Other candidates are Ford Kenya’s Daudi Ali and Kanu’s Mohamed. Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang’ula had urged the IEBC to hold a free, fair and credible poll. “This is another litmus test for the Independent Electoral Boundaries Commission. I urge it to ensure the election is devoid of irregularities,” he said while presenting Ali. The Bungoma Senator said Ford Kenya will marshal enough resources to ensure Ali wins.“People know our party boasts of good leadership and honesty. We’re here to serve and that’s why our party is popular everywhere,” he said. Click here for the latest political news   