Members of Kenya’s queer community will be holding their breath on Friday February 22. This is the day a three-judge bench at the Constitutional Court is expected to give a ruling on whether to decriminalise our private, consensual same-sex relations. The case was brought to the court by Eric Gitari in his capacity as executive director of the National Gay and Lesbian Human Rights Commission. If the ruling, as many of us hope, is in favour of decriminalisation, it will mark the end of a journey that began properly during the time of the Constitutional Review Commission nearly 20 years ago. The review process was what provided the impetus for a number of queer activists, myself included, to begin to hope that the laws of our country might be changed so that who and how we love would stop being a criminal activity and legally prevent our love lives from continuing to be fodder for blackmailers and other bigots. At the beginning, there were a number of different groups working independently towards the goal of decriminalisation. But it wasn’t until the International Conference on Aids and STIs in Africa (Icasa), hosted in Nairobi in September 2003, that members of the groups met up. They came up with the idea of working together under an umbrella organisation to achieve our dream. That organisation was the Gay and Lesbian Coalition of Kenya, Galck. Until Icasa 2003, I had been a member of a group of young men who had been lobbying friends and relations involved in the review process to see if we could follow in the footsteps of South Africa and get same-sex rights recognised in the constitution. The group was made up of people whom unfortunately I cannot name here for a number of reasons, including the fact that doing so could hurt their personal and professional lives. They wouldn’t thank me. For me, as a journalist who has often written about my community, the biggest setback to telling our stories has been having to keep people’s names hidden. If you are wondering: “What’s the worst that can happen?” Let me tell you. Back in 2007, during an international gathering in Nairobi, a few members of the community were filmed and gave media interviews. Within days, many of them faced eviction, loss of their job, excommunication by their faith groups and one even had to leave the country to study abroad after his family kicked him out. Being “openly gay” (oh, how I despise that phrase) in Kenya is a very risky option, and those of us who are have had to burn certain bridges and navigate treacherous paths just to be ourselves, and we are the “lucky ones”. For most of us, relegation to the shadows is the only hope for survival, and even then, it is not assured and the law does not have our back. I live in hope that one day, not far away, those of us who write the histories of queer Kenya will be able to do so without redacting names in fear of exposure. We are your brothers and sisters and our love shouldn’t be a crime. #Repeal162