There are abstract concepts that we generally struggle to understand; we know it when we see it – for instance, forgiveness or uniqueness – and Diligence too. So, what is diligence? How does it work? Dictionary.com defines diligence as: a persistent and hardworking effort in doing something. That works. But there is more. I gained further insight into this word when I read the definition by the marketing entrepreneur, Steven K. Scott. He said, “Diligence is a learnable skill that combines: creative persistence, a smart-working effort rightly planned and rightly performed in a timely, efficient, and effective manner to attain a result that is pure and of the highest quality of excellence.” This definition clearly states the elements of diligence. Let’s break it down. Creative Persistence: Creativity is the expression of your uniqueness – generally, this occurs in thoughts, words, actions and work. When your work flows from your uniqueness, you profess in a way that is truly awesome. Furthermore, the creative process is not linear, so things may not work out the first few times – it’s possible to have moments (and in some cases, many moments) of failure. Therefore, in the creative process, you must possess a grit that helps you stay the course until the work is successfully done. Effective Planning: Scott talks about “a smart-working effort rightly planned.” How do you operate? Are your systems aligned for easy function? Do you work smart? Do you have good, flexible plans? This is diligence. Effective Execution: Many business executives agree that beyond making strategic plans, ultimately, execution is the main vein. A well laid out plan is useless if it’s not well done – hence the importance of execution. And it’s a key element in the equation. That’s why it’s important to have the skill level in your team to carry out strategic plans “rightly performed in a timely, efficient and effective manner.” Art: Diligence is seen when you “attain a result that is pure” – when you make art. What does this mean? It means doing work from the core of your being. It means expressing your awesomeness from deep within so that people marvel. That’s one reason people cried and fainted as the late music legend, Michael Jackson, performed. They felt magic. Excellence: This completes the diligence cycle. A commitment to the “highest quality of excellence” is vital element of the equation. Diligence is beyond persistence. Work well done speaks well of the effort put in. When excellence is engaged at the highest level, your diligence shines. Email: smpamugo@gmail.com