Kenyan skier Sabrina Wanjiru has missed out on the ongoing World skiing Championship despite earlier promises of support from the government and the National Olympic Committee of Kenya. Wanjiru cancelled her trip to Sweden after failing to raise 11,000 euros for her team of four. Wanjiru, who is based in Austria, is also likely to miss out on the World Youth Skiing Championship which starts on Monday in Italy next week if she fails raise 4000 euros for the entire team of four. Efforts to reach out to the officials at the Sports Ministry and Nock proved futile yesterday. Born 20 years ago, Wanjiru represented Kenya in the Winter Olympics in South Korea last year, where she met among others Nock President Paul Tergat as well as officials from the Ministry of Sports and despite being promised full support, nothing has been forthcoming. According to Wanjiru, the officials promised to support her career as well as pay back her money from her first Youth Olympics in Norway. However, the agreement was forgotten as soon as they left South Korea. “It’s frustrating working with NOCK sometimes. Unfortunately after meeting NOCK officials in South Korea, they stopped picking my calls and replying to my emails. However, NOCK secretary general, Francis Mutuku said their obligation revolve around Olympics Games only and that other events should be directed to the sports ministry. According to Mutuku, plans are already underway to secure a scholarship for Wanjiru to prepare for the 2022 Winter Olympics. The cycle for the scholarship will start in November. “Our support is only on Olympic related events. But since Wanjiru wants to take part in other events, we would like to directed her to Sports Ministry and we hope they are working out something,” he said. Mutuku said they are also working to see if they can secure funds from other channels and help Wanjiru for what she has done for the country. He said the government should ensure the sports fund is ready to help athletes in such cases. Wanjiru started skiing at the age of three and says she wants to fully focus on her performance so that she can be among the best in the world. However, she admits she can’t do this without financial support. Even though she gets some support in Austria, she admits, in the future it might be a challenge since she doesn’t represent them. “It would be appropriate to get financial support from my motherland. I represent them every single day and it would be hard in the future to be financially supported by a nation I don’t represent,” she added. At the age of 20, she can easily change her nationality and represent Austria in major championships but she says she will not give up on her nation until she gets what she deserves. She is also grateful Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko, who has shown interest towards supporting her financially. She now wants to focus on preparing for the World Cup program next season as well as World championship in Cortina Italy in 2021 and the 2022 Winter Olympics in Beijing, China. However, all these can only be achieved with proper financial support from the government and she hopes they will take action soon.