Betty Kyallo has congratulated her ex-husband Dennis Okari after he proposed to his fiance two weeks ago. In a question-and-answer session with her Instagram followers, Betty said: "No pain whatsoever, happy for him. Wish him the best and to everyone else who’s gone or going through the same thing, you’re human, life happens, move on and find your happiness," Betty said. It is the first time she has spoken about her ex-husband Dennis Okari’s relationship after parting ways with him four years ago. Another follower asked: "Do you feel bad that Dennis moved on? How do you manage the pain?" She responded: "I’m happier." Another follower asked the single mother of one what her advice is to a deadbeat father. She said: "Mungu anawaona. One day, you'll come back because these kids you sire and run away are always blessed." The public first learnt that Okari and Betty are not co-parenting in July 2018. The drama started when Okari called out Betty for exposing their daughter Ivanna on social media. “My daughter does not deserve the kind of publicity she has been getting. She deserves to grow up quietly and no one, including myself as her father, should interfere with her rights to privacy,” he said. Betty took a subliminal shot at him, implying he is a deadbeat dad, while replying to a fan who was narrating how he was raising his children as a single parent. “I have a son age 4 and a daughter age 2, their mother run away and as a father I took full responsibility to make sure my kids are growing up in a good environment and every day when I wake up I look at them, kiss them and I get motivated and the urge to hustle more so that they won’t feel the absence of their mum,” the fan wrote. To which Betty said: “I love this. Much love for you and your kids. I resonate with you because I’m all my daughter has.” Asked if she has plans to get married, she said it is not a priority for now. Dennis Okari, on the other hand, is expected to have his wedding later this month or early in March.