Men were able to last over three times longer in bed after receiving an injection into the penis that decreases sensitivity. Hyaluronic acid - commonly found in moisturisers, lip fillers and beauty creams - was injected into 30 respondents. Two thirds of respondents all had moderate to severe premature ejaculation but after a round of jabs, were able to last three-and-a-half times longer. Many men struggle to last more than 30 seconds in bed - but after a month, subjects were in some cases able to last up to 120 seconds. Hyaluronic acid works by softening tissue and thus decreases sensitivity in the penis and allows men to last longer. Hyaluronic acid has been FDA approved in the US to treat osteoarthritis, a knee ailment, via injecting it into the joint. Dr Mohamed Ragab, of Cairo University, said in the International Journal of Impotence Research, "Penis injection with the acid is safe and improves sexual satisfaction." Men's typical ejaculatory latency is approximately four-eight minutes and it is not known exactly what causes premature ejaculation. There is little research to back up any theories on why it happens, but performance anxiety is a widely accepted reason. It is also thought that premature ejaculation can be caused by psychological factors such as stress and relationship issues - or having been caught masturbating as a child. As well as sometimes being caused by relationship issues, premature ejaculation can sometimes, in turn, cause issues in a relationship. Prostate problems, thyroid problems - an overactive or underactive thyroid gland -  and using recreational drugs can also hinder ejaculation timings. Biological reasons as simple as a man having a sensitive penis also contribute. The NHS says that occasional episodes of premature ejaculation are common and aren't a cause for concern. However, if you're finding that around half of your attempts at sex result in premature ejaculation, it might help to get treatment, according to experts. Click here for the latest political news