Lawyer Tom Ojienda is headed to the Supreme Court after Appeal judges overturned High Court order compelling KRA to issue him a Tax Compliant Certificate (TCC). The order that was stopped on Wednesday would have obligated the Law Society of Kenya to process Prof. Ojienda’s nomination to contest Judicial Service Commission elections without the certificate. Kenya Revenue Authority in December 2018 appealed the High Court ruling to grant Ojienda a tax compliance certificate over a pending Sh 444 million tax bill. But Appellate judges Martha Koome, A.K. Murgor and S. ole Kantai while delivering the ruling said they are satisfied that KRA satisfied the principles upon which an application of such nature is granted. "We, therefore, grant a stay of execution of the ruling delivered on 4th December 2018 in Nairobi High Court Constitutional Petition No. 418 of 2018 and any consequential orders pending determination of the applicant’s intended appeal". Read: KRA appeals order to grant Ojienda tax certificate Ojienda had also filed a notice of motion application seeking interim orders pending the hearing and determination of the Petition. The Court of Appeal ruled in favour of KRA, stating that compelling KRA to issue a Tax Compliance Certificate to Prof. Ojienda without checking compliance according to the laid down procedure, will contravene provisions of the Tax Procedures Act and the Constitution. If the order of stay was not issued, LSK would be denied an opportunity to vet Prof. Ojienda for the position of LSK male representative to the JSC using the same criteria as for the other candidates. In their response, LSK maintained it will not clear Ojienda to vie for another term as a member of the JSC in the upcoming elections. Through lawyer Paul Muite, LSK urged the court not to issue conservatory orders compelling them to clear Ojienda without a Tax Compliant Certificate. Muite told Justice Wilfridah Okwany that the requirements of chapter six apply to all the candidates who are seeking to vie for the position of JSC which is a public office. According to Muite, any person seeking to vie for the position must meet the requirements of chapter six and one of them in KRA compliance. The legal body argues that they don’t have a preferred candidate and their only mandate into to conduct elections and all the nominees should be subjected to the criteria. “If the court accepts Ojienda’s application without a Tax Compliance Certificate, what happens to the other nominees” Muite posed to court. Read: LSK refuses to clear Ojienda for JSC elections over tax dispute