The National Land Commission has started to relocate more than 900 families from 6,000 acres in the Kerio Valley to make way for construction of two hydropower dams. The mega dams will be built at Kimwarer and Arror in Elgeyo Marakwet county. The families will be moved from from next month. NLC chairman Muhammed Swazuri said the land to be used has already been gazetted and Sh6.8 billion will be used to compensate the families. The projects have been funded by donors through the Kerio Valley Development Authority. “KVDA has already identified alternative land in Uasin Gishu and Trans Nzoia where the families will be resettled but they will be paid for developments like houses and other installations,” Swazuri said. He was speaking in Iten after meeting local leaders and KVDA representatives on the relocation. Keiyo South MP Daniel Rono, the regional authority’s managing director David Kimosop, chiefs and MCAs attended. Swazuri said although relocation was a delicate and painful process for those moving from their ancestral land, the NLC and KVDA had engaged the families at length to to accept compulsory acquisition. NLCA and KVDA have held 81 public participation meetings in Arror and Kimwarer ahead of relocation. “We have engaged all stakeholders so they can understand the importance of the two multi-billion shilling projects,” he said. Kimosop said KVDA had identified 11 parcels in Uasin Gishu and Trans Nzoia and the NLC will acquire them for relocation. He said KVDA will carry out the relocation in a “humane manner” without force once all outstanding issues are finalised. “We will do it by law and we are happy even those who initially opposed relocation are welcoming us because we helped them understand the entire process,” the MD said. President Kenyatta is expected in the region in June for a ground breaking ceremony for the projects. They are expected to transform lives in the Kerio Valley, known for banditry, disease and illiteracy. Kimosop said the local youths will be given first priority in employment of drivers, plant operators, plumbers, cooks and security guards, among other jobs.