A two-term MP from Central Kenya seems to be fighting hard to repair his tattered relationship with President Uhuru Kenyatta (pictured). The man, who has been at odds with the President, seems to have realised the ground is shifting fast. But his latest antics have not escaped MPs who are members of the Public Investment Committee. The MPs are investigating Kenya Airways’ proposed takeover of JKIA management. The MP was opposed to any plans to suspend the takeover of the airport, currently under KAA’s management. He dropped the name of the President to persuade the committee to change its stance. He also vigorously defended the First Family. One of the MPs immediately reminded him that he made his political bed and must lie on it. IS the Nairobi County Liquor Licensing Board planning to raid Parliament for operating a liquor outlet without a licence? A source says the team could descend on Parliament at any moment. The source intimated that Parliament lacks a trading licence to operate the pub. The facility, in which waheshimiwa imbibe the frothy stuff, has been in existence for long. It was recently given a facelift. It’s not clear why City Hall has never looked at it for revenue. Nairobi county by-laws stipulate that all liquor outlets operated in the capital city must be licensed by the board. Just what were some senior ODM members doing at the Jubilee Party headquarters when the candidate for the Wajir West by-election was being unveiled? Are they apprehensive that the Orange candidate may not make it and are warming up to Jubilee? Well, most of the Jubilee top leaders were surprised to see a few lieutenants of former Wajir Governor Ahmed Abdullahi at the Pangani-based office, sending tongues wagging, especially coming in the wake of a bruising Supreme Court battle. That stakes are high in the Wajir West parliamentary by-election is no secret. There is talk that Jubilee is sponsoring a retreat for all elders from the constituency to cement the party’s prospects in the upcoming poll. IS there more than meets the eye in the ongoing row between Kenya and Somalia over maritime boundary? A group of Jubilee MPs who are members of the Defence and Foreign Relations committee were overheard canvassing in low tones about the dispute. One of them said, “If what we have been told is true, then the country has been dragged into a personal war.” According to some of the MPs, Kenya overreacted in the strongly worded statement in which she referred to Somalia as “enemy state”. The lawmakers were talking moments after grilling Foreign Affairs CS Monica Juma in camera on Wednesday. So what did the CS disclose to the committee? Click here for the latest political news