Deputy President William Ruto’s supporters have changed strategy in their push for his 2022 presidential bid. The backers will henceforth sell his agenda ahead of the next general elections through lobbies and other social groups, now that early campaigns have been denounced. Members of Friends of Ruto Movement lobby met in Kakamega last weekend and disclosed they will mobilise friends of the DP countrywide. The group says it will ensure the success of Jubilee’s Big Four agenda by 2022. “We’re not a campaign machinery because elections are still far off. However, we are about consolidating and mobilising friends of Ruto,” Sande Oyalo, the lobby’s national coordinator said. Political analyst Amukowa Anangwe sees this as a ploy by Ruto followers to avoid being seen as an impediment to President Uhuru Kenyatta’s development agenda. The President has repeatedly warned Jubilee leaders against engaging in politics and instead allow him to achieve the Big Four Agenda by the end of his term. Anangwe said Kenyans should anticipate a series of off-media activities with a hidden political agenda by Ruto’s foot soldiers in the civil society arena, particularly community-based groups, faith-led organisations and other social groups to undermine the Building Bridges Initiative as well as the anticipated referendum. “The approach will certainly change from overt political campaigns to some kind of guerrilla political warfare characterised by hit and run tactics,” Anangwe, who teachers at a Tanzanian university said. The DP has been crisscrossing the country presiding over fundraisers for churches and donating buses to schools. His visits are frequent in Western, Coast and Central Kenya. A week ago, National Assembly Chief Whip Ben Washiali and Malava MP Malulu Injendi said they would change strategy and continue with their campaigns for the DP to ensure they deliver him to State house in 2022. The lobby asked the BBI task force to conduct a national constitutional audit to establish weaknesses and strengths of the constitution before any amendment is made. “They should convene a national conference on the constitution to agree on what needs to be changed and show the way forward as well as provide answers to economic problems facing the country that are the root cause of divisions,” Sande said. He said the proposed creation of new positions through expansion of the executive will not solve problems facing Kenyans. The Friends of Ruto lobby coordinator said that DP backers fear the proposed parliamentary system will take away the constitutional mandate of Kenyans to freely choose leaders.