The atmosphere I witnessed at Chelsea’s return to their training camp on Monday morning had an eerie feeling about it and reminded me of four years ago when Jose Mourinho was manager. That was the day he got the sack! Manager Maurizio Sarri arrived early and went through the video analysis of the Man City 6-0 loss disaster. He then split the players into two groups, the team which lost to City went to the gym and the substitutes and other seniors played a 60 minute match against the Chelsea Academy youngsters. The result was a 3-3 draw which embarrassed both Willian and Giroud with the manager watching. Will Sarri survive until the end of the season given that his boss/owner Roman Abramovich doesn’t take kindly to beatings for his team of 4-0 to Bournemouth and then 6-0 to rivals Manchester City. After the final whistle at the City fiasco, Sarri did not even wait to shake hands with City manager Pep Guardiola. He just walked down the tunnel and back to the dressing room trying to mask his anger. Pep just shrugged and looked bemused. I have been talking to my Chelsea insiders and it is simply a case that the Chelsea players have not bought into Sarri’s way of playing. They don’t like it, despite the success he delivered at his previous club Napoli. Now I have discovered that several senior members of the squad are talking about leaving if Sarri stays beyond this season. They are upset that he only chooses from 13 or 14 players each week and many have to wait for Cup games to get playing time. The players are also bored with his training routines, which often involve drills before a match in the evening. As I wrote in this column two week’s ago, Sarri’s master plan is to play down the wings and cut inside, pushing on for the strikers to receive the ball and go for goal. The Chelsea players totally ignored that plan against City and Sarri was furious. Chelsea are a club which exists in constant chaos. They have never replaced John Terry, Frank Lampard and Didier Drogba who bossed the dressing room. They have no current leaders but collectively stick together and sulk and slink away from responsibility. Seven players cost £250m and currently they do not even start a game. Conte wanted Virgil Van Dijk and Riyad Mahrez but the club did not back him last year. Selling midfielder Nemanja Matic was crazy. The club simply has no direction and no plan. Abramovich, despite not watching one match this season because the UK government refused him a working visa, was so upset with the Chelsea 6-0 result that he phoned the club and asked them to set up a meeting with the manager. Sarri has previously said that he never hears from the owner because Abramovich divides his time between his native Russia and Israel where he has taken up citizenship. Insiders are already saying that Sarri could have as little as four weeks if things do not turn around immediately. One man watching the situation is Chelsea legend Frank Lampard and my spies tell me that his name is in the frame if Abramovich sacks Sarri. Frank himself played down the possibility and said he was only concentrating on his own team Derby but at the same time he added that 6-0 defeats do not happen to Chelsea and it is 28 years since they lost so heavily. One final point is that in the technical area during the Manchester City thrashing, Pep Guardiola had his arm around Gabriel Jesus as he came off the substitute’s bench, they were smiling, Jesus was listening and they stood shoulder to shoulder before Jesus joined the game. In the other technical area stood Ruben Loftus Cheek with his manager Sarri. Not a word was spoken between them as the midfielder ran onto the the pitch, no words of guidance or tactics, no words of comfort, no words of reassurance. I think that says it all. Four reasons why it's Solskjaer for United There are four things I can exclusively tell you about the manager’s position at Manchester United. Ole Gunner Solskjaer is now firmly in the driving seat to become the next permanent man in the hot seat despite the midweek 2-0 loss to Paris St-Germain in the Champion’s League. His amazing run of eleven games without defeat is testament to a man who knows what he is doing. First, I can reveal that Solskjaer has already met the United owners for an interview. Following that interview and the win at Fulham, owner Avram Glazer went into the United dressing room to publicly support his temporary manager. That is a statement of intent in my book. He thanked all the players but especially Solskjaer. Secondly, the Norwegian is now backed by two of United’s most influential board members and club legends, Sir Alex Ferguson and Sir Bobby Charlton…they see Solskjaer as the future of the club and Ferguson has given him huge support on and off the training field. Third, Solskjaer has the players playing for him and he has also handled the media brilliantly and the fans love him. Finally, Solskjaer’s inner circle tell me he would accept a two-year contract which in footballing terms means he is not too expensive to take a gamble on. If after two years or earlier, things do not work out he can remain a legend and slip quietly away with the club’s thanks and it won’t have cost too much money. Fulham fans attack Ranieri It is a tough life being a manager as Claudio Ranieri is constantly reminded but this time he is suffering at Fulham and not Leicester where he was sacked after winning the League title. After Saturday’s 3-0 home defeat to Manchester United, fans were calling for him to be sacked and all you could hear around the ground during the game was that old favourite chant “You don’t know what you’re doing!” Ranieri refused to give up on his 3-man defence system despite Fulham letting in 58 goals so far this season. The defence should have been sorted out in January but only Havard Nordtveit was signed from German Bundesliga team Hoffenheim. Fulham fans vented their fury when the team was announced on Saturday and one of football’s brightest youngsters, full back Ryan Sessegnon was alongside club captain Tom Cairney on the substitute’s bench. How Ranieri can leave these two out of the team is beyond me. Fulham now face three home matches against Chelsea, Liverpool and Manchester City and Ranieri must be very worried. Sturridge could join Kane & Co Tottenham Hotspur have told me they reported to manager Mauricio Pochettino this week that Liverpool’s Daniel Sturridge is a free agent at the end of the season. The manager is interested in taking him to White Hart Lane as back up for Harry Kane. His £120k a week wages are a bit of a problem because Spurs pay less than most Premier League clubs. Kane’s current replacement Fernando Llorente is 34 in March and will leave at the end of the season. Sturridge has had limited playing time because of injury problems but that does not worry Spur’s medical teams I am told. West Ham players recovering West Ham tell me that things will get better for them and they expect injured Samir Nasri, Manuel Lanzini and Fabian Balbuena to recover very soon and more quickly than expected, thanks to some recuperation in the Spanish beach holiday resort of Malaga. The warm weather, manager Manuel Pellegrini believes, will do the trick. Newcastle support their goalkeeper Goalkeeper Martin Dubravka cost Newcastle three valuable points on Monday evening. Manager Rafa Benitez was furious as the goalkeeper let the ball slip through his fingers and Wolves striker Willy Boly headed in. Instead of three points, Newcastle had to share the spoils with a point each. The fact is when a goalkeeper makes a mistake it is usually more important than any other mishap on the field. I was impressed that evening because although the Magpies drew 1-1, the fans rushed to Dubravka’s defence by pointing out that he is possibly the best player the club have brought in for the last 2 years and has strengthened the defence beyond all measure. If, like Rafa, you have the support of Newcastle’s fans, they will back you no matter what, they are not fickle and will stand and be counted and are really passionate and loyal to those they believe in. Valencia likely to leave United When I questioned why Manchester United’s Antonio Valencia was not at training this week I was told he has a niggling injury. I also learned the long serving defender is set to leave the club at the end of this season. The 33 year-old is out of contract in the summer and his agents have been talking to Inter Milan about a possible move. United have no plans to extend his contract at the moment and have until March to make him an offer. At present Juan Mata, Ander Herrera and Ashley Young are all six months away from becoming free agents when their contracts expire and my United sources tell me the club want to keep Mata and Herrera but Young and Valencia will be 34 when the 2019/20 season kicks off so they will probably leave.