Directors of the troubled National Land Commission want vice chair Abigael Mbagaya investigated for abuse of office. And in yet another petition to the Solicitor General and the EACC, the directors want acting CEO Kabale Tache and Ben Bett, in charge of the human resources, held to account alongside Mbagaya. The directors, through Chimei and Company Advocates, accuse Mbagaya, Kabale and Bett of committing illegalities, breach of the Constitution, abusing their powers, exposing the commission to public liability and for propagating institutional crisis. “By copy of this letter, we ask your office to urgently intervene to save NLC and to abridge runaway never mind the law and the Constitution attitude which may turn out to be very costly to the commission and the public when the present term of the commission comes to an end on February 19, 2019,” Chimei said. This comes as deputy solicitor general Njeri Wachira on behalf her boss, Kennedy Ogeto, wrote to NLC vice chair and the acting CEO asking them to furnish the solicitor general with details on the “illegal” employment of 21 officers. Wachira said they had received complaints that NLC has recruited staff without due process, and there have been no sittings to approve the hiring. Those recruited, the letter says, are relatives and friends of commissioners. “Considering the above allegations raise serious ethical issues of nepotism and favouritism against the NLC,we request for a clarification on the facts leading to the employment of 21 officers,” the letter copied to the Attorney General reads in part. Apart from nepotism, Chimei letter accuses Mbagaya,Brian Ikol and Tache of disobeying court orders with the advice of Federation of Kenya Employers rather than the Attorney General. In earlier interview with the Star Mbagaya said those were administrative issues that would not be canvassed through the media. “You not going to sway us. We must bring order to the commission. It is not a market place,” she said. The petition also claims forged minutes were used to change the terms of staff. Most of the persons who hold the positions of directors at the NLC were permanent and pensionable employees of other government agencies who were seconded to NLC. After a resolution of 2017, their terms were changed and they were absorbed by the NLC in May 2018. “In November 2018 the said Abigael together with few commissioners issued memos to then acting CEO Prof David Kuria to withdraw terms that had been implemented for over a half year without any objection,” the petitions indicates. “The actions above have certainly triggered an institutional crisis and deprived the officers which the said Mbagaya and the officers mentioned hold of any dignity. There is a complete breach of public trust and an exposure to public liability,” Chimei said.