Trade and industry CS Peter Munya could be plotting a comeback to Meru gubernatorial seat in 2022. Munya is yet to make a public announcement if he will run but recent remarks by a close political ally suggest he might be scheming revenge. Former North Imenti MP Silas Muriuki recently said “Munya is Meru generation right now and in next 20 years. As his supporters and entire Meru we are waiting for your word on which way to go,” Muriuki said during his birthday party at Runogone last week. East African Legislative Assemby MP Mpuru Aburi regretted campaigning against Munya in the 2017 governor’s race. Aburi, who lost his Tigania East seat in 2017 for possibly going against the grain, was a fierce critic of Munya. He said he persuaded Meru governor Kiraitu Murungi to run for the county’s top job. “I proposed the plan to him in 2015 but he declined. In 2016, he agreed and I went around the county campaigning for him,” the Eala MP said on Saturday. Aburi, who is from Nyambene, asked Imenti residents to forgive him for “misleading them into electing Kiraitu”. He was speaking during Muriuki’s birthday party. Munya was also present. The regional legislator metaphorically said they brought down a “proud tortoise from a tree” and now they have have “a leopard on the tree”. “When the tortoise fell, it hit my chest hard. I also hit its shell with a stone and we both fell unconscious. Now we have another problem — the leopard is on the tree,” he said. He added: “I did not campaign for Kiraitu to plant trees from Meru to Nanyuki along the highway. I did not campaign for him for let Meru mortuary stink or hospitals go without drugs. Munya left hospitals in good shape.” Munya has kept off county politics, but he might be playing the silence card as elections are three years away. Some MCAs who opposed Munya’s re-election have changed tune. Those who had accompanied him, do not want Kiraitu to inspect projects done with Sh20 million allocated to ward development fund. Elias Murega (Municipality) said they do not receive any funds directly but only propose projects that are done by the executive. “We should be the ones supervising what the governor is doing, not the other way round.” Lucy Mukaria (nominated) said Kiraitu is “the implementer and not overseer. So when Kiraitu says he is going to oversee projects done by MCAs it does not make sense to me.” Aburi said he will lead an onslaught against Kiraitu as “his development record is below par”. Kiraitu refused to respond to those insulting him or criticising his administration. He said leaders should concentrate on their development agenda, not insults.