Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria has proposed formation of a 27-member committee in the National Assembly to oversight the Cabinet team led by Interior CS Fred Matiang'i. Kuria has written to Speaker Justin Muturi saying the committee "will support the realisation of the Executive Order." He wants the committee called Parliamentary Development Coordination Committee. President Uhuru Kenyatta last month appointed Matiang'i to chair the National Development Implementation and Communication Cabinet Committee that comprises all Cabinet secretaries, Attorney-General Paul Kihara and Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua. "From the foregoing, it is imperative that Parliament plays its role in supporting the Executive Order and the realisation of the Big Four agenda," he said in a letter dated February 4. Matiang'i is deputised by Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich. His team will ensure a coordinated strategic communication on the progress of government programmes and projects. Other functions include monitoring and evaluating the follow-up mechanism for resources allocated for priority programmes and projects to ensure proper use and realizstion of targeted outcomes. The committee can also recommend termination of some contracts and recommend legal action in cases where there is presumed loss of public funds. It is also tasked with providing “timely guidance on appropriate measures to address challenges constraining effective implementation and delivery of development programmes." Reporting to the Matiang'i committee is a technical team comprising 14 principal secretaries to be known as the National Development Implementation Technical Committee. There were murmurs in Deputy President William Ruto's camp that the move to elevate Matiang'i was meant to reduce the DP's influence in government. Ruto has been the face of Jubilee projects. While ministries can be over-sighted by respective committees of the House, Kuria says the role of the proposed committee will be to coordinate the legislative and budgetary expectations of all ministries. Read: Rise of ‘Mr Fix It’ Matiang’i: CS who heads core dockets has Uhuru’s ear The committees coordinate effiecient and timely flow of information on national government development programmes. The committee will also "offer requisite political and communication support for successful implementation of the order" and create linkages between MPs and the Executive. It is the leadership of the Majority and Minority parties that generate names of the members to the committee but, Kuria has come up with a team and proposed himself as the chairman. In Parliamentary practice, the membership of the committee would have a sitting where they will elect a chairman and vice chairperson but it can also happen like the case of the 12th Parliament where Jubilee had a pre-determined list of chairs and vice-chairpersons of various committees. Kuria has listed MPs from both sides of the House to sit in the committee. Those listed includ Majority leader Aden Duale, Minority leader John Mbadi, Benjamin Washiali, Junet Mohamed, Jimmy Angweny, Rebert Mbui, Cecily Mbarire, Chris Wamalwa, Sabina Chege, Kathuri Murungi, Timthy Wanyonyi, Esther Passaris, Fatuma Gedi, Bashir Abdhulahi, Rachel Nyamai, Kareke Mbiuki, Mishi Mboko, Danson Mwahoko, Soipan Tuya, Caleb Kositany, Florence Bore, Beatrice Adagala, Dan Wanyama, Rosa Buyu, Opiyo Wandayi and Ngunjiri Wambugu. "The establishment of this committee will go along way in creating collaborative mechanisms between the Executive and Legislature for a faster realisation of our national development agenda in general and the Big Four in particular," Kuria said. Also Read: Uhuru trims Ruto’s power in new order Click here for the latest political news