A row is brewing between club owners, entertainment investors and the Kilifi government over the new noise regulation laws. The county began implementing the Environment Management and Coordination Act Laws that stipulates that no person shall operate loud sounds or any other amplifying machines that affect the public. The county issued notices to club owners and investors organising beach parties, warning them of dire consequences if they played sounds higher than 35 decibels. Read also: Rising noise levels starting to make city dwellers go deaf Differences openly played out during a stakeholders meeting on Thursday organised by the Department of Environment and Natural Resources, notifying them of the plan to enforce the sound regulations at the Malindi Municipal hall. According to the investors, playing 35 dB sound music is too low and will not attract tourists who are their main clients frequenting the entertainment spots. They opposed the move saying it is a plan to kill the already ailing tourism sector in the resort towns. The Environment County Chief Officer of Environment Mariam Mohamed maintained that they would crackdown on those who play loud music as required by law. “We are not targeting anyone but all only those who break the law," she said. Read: 48 arrested as NEMA intensify crackdown on nightclubs Mohamed said an individual arrested for breaking the law will be fined between Sh600,000 to Sh4 million while corporates will part with between Sh2 million and Sh4 million. Among those likely targeted were Rosada, Papa Remo Trucks and Kienyeji Joint that usually organise beach parties. The investors wondered why the county did not come up with laws that suit their area which mostly relies on the tourism sector. They threatened to take legal action if the county proceeded with the implementation. The club owners insisted most establishments like beach parties and clubs were in the open which could only be attractive with loud music. Angela Chisemwa, the general manager of Rosada Beach Club, said they were not opposed to the laws but it would force them to close businesses if implemented as no one would go to a beach party with low sound. “If my facility is at the beach, how do I put sound proof on the beach?’’ she asked. Jackson Maina of Papa Remo said they organise beach parties every Thursday which attract tourists from their two resorts – Seven Islands and Krystall Bay which have a capacity of 300 people. He said clients from all over Watamu and even Malindi come to enjoy music during the beach party at Papa Remo. “If we lower the sound of music we will lose all these clients,’’ he said. Alex Zissimatos, the General Manager of Plan Hotels Malindi, said the tourist numbers had gone down by over 50 per cent in the last decade and is now picking up. He warned that such restrictions would negatively affect the sector. Jamaal Shee, a local leader in Malindi, said the laws will affect residents who depend on the tourism sector since they will lose thir jobs. He said counties like Mombasa have spared three specific days for beach parties while Kwale has only two days for the same. “If you threaten us with heavy penalties and we close down the facilities, those who will suffer are the locals," Shee said. Click here for the latest political news