Organisers of the national cross country trials tomorrow at Eldoret Sports Club have introduced barriers on the course in a bid to meet international standards. Subsequently, four modified barriers have been erected on the course to meet the criteria. According race director, David Letting, cross country cannot be complete without barriers along the course hence the latest move. “This is a flat course and for us to attain the international standards, we had to be innovative to meet the standards. The four barriers gives an athlete hard time to clear and this is a good challenge ahead of Denmark show next month,” said Letting, the long-serving athletics coach. He said the Denmark course will be hilly hence the inventions are good for preparations. He dismissed the calls for flat course, saying it may not be good for preparations. “In Eldoret, we will select a good team to represent the nation and that has nothing to do with hilly course in Denmark. Majority of our athletes have been training in more hilly areas compared to the world course and I foresee no problem. We train in Kaptagat, Iten and Kapsabet among other hilly areas. That won’t stop our team from taking top honours,” said Letting. Leting said they have created a 10 metre mad barrier among the four to test the athletes’ resolve. The barrier is two feet deep and will be watered each day to ensure the soil absorbs as much water as possible. “There is no cross country without water barriers. This kind of situation restrains an athlete during the competition and tests his or her readiness for the championships. Our invention is the best compared to the previous cross countries races in Kenya,” he added. Meanwhile, several teams have started arriving for the championships with the official starting time set for at 2pm. Local organising chairman, Abraham Mutai said they may change time due to the humid conditions in the region. “We have put everything in order and because of the humidity, we may adjust to begin later in the evening,” said Mutai. Meanwhile, Athletics Kenya will meet athletes’ managers this morning at the Noble Hotel in Eldoret ahead of tomorrow’s national cross country. According to the national cross country organizing committee chairman, Abraham Mutai, the meeting is the usual managers’ meeting which is held after every two years. Mutai said the managers’ meeting will be crucial as they seek to synchronize their programmes with AK calendar. “The main agenda will be the athletes’ contracts and the athletes programmes,” said Mutai.     