Experienced middle blocker Brackcides Agala will captain Kenya Prisons’ women’s team to the next months African Club Championship in Cairo, Egypt. Agala missed last event as she was away on maternity leave and takes over from left attacker Evelyne Makuto who captained the Kenya Volleyball Federation (KVF) league champions last year. Prisons’ who finished fourth during last year’s championship held in Egypt, started residential training yesterday at the Prisons Staff Training College in Ruiru ahead of the March 16-25 bonanza. Commenting on the appointment, Prisons’ coach Josp Barasa said the team has always rotated the armband. Barasa said besides Agala being one of the most experienced player in the team, she brings on board her leadership skills having been a national team captain before. He said: “Agala has been there and seen it all. She captained the national team and she brings on board experience and exposure. There are players not only at Prisons but at other clubs, who look up to her not only for her playing skills, but also her leadership.” He continued: “Makuto served the best way she could and it’s within her period that we won the league last year after five years of waiting. And now that Agala is the captain, we are optimistic of doing better on the International stage.” Asked about the preparation ahead of the event, Barasa said the players are in high spirit and can only get better. “I’m glad there are no injuries and the players are psyched up ahead of the event. All the departments are working in unison and we are just tightening on the loose ends,” said Barasa, who doubles up as the women’s national team assistant coach. Reached for comment, Agala was gracious in her appointment. She said: “Every captain has her/his way of leading the team. However, I’m happy the team is training well and we can only hope for the best ahead of the club championship and the 2019 KVF league.” Provisional squad: Herman Jepyegon, Joy Lusenaka, Mercy Likhayo, Edith Wisa, Shyren Jepkemboi, Diana Khisa, Lauren Chebet, Brackcides Agala, Immaculate Chemutai, Lydia Maiyo, Yvonne Wavinya, Meldine Sande, Evelyne Makuto, Loice Tarus, Joan Chelagat, Judith Trus, Elizabeth Wanyama, Pamela Masaisai, Teresa Ewet and Caren Cheruto.