Kenyans sent messages of encouragement and prayers to Kibra MP Ken Okoth after he revealed that he was suffering from stage 4 cancer. The Nairobi MP said he cannot be cured at stage 4 but will manage the disease. “God cannot give you a test that you can’t pass. This I have learnt over the last two years of being sick and adjusting to a “new normal” in my personal and public life,” Okoth said on his facebook wall. He was responding to those who wished him well. Mwaniki Ng’ang’a asked Kenyans to spare him eulogies. “Okoth said he had stage 4 cancer. He is still alive though. So, spare him the eulogies and urge him on to live. The man needs encouragement not pity,” he said. John Ogutu- Good morning Lord Thank you for this new day. Help Ken Okoth to remember that nothing is going to happen to him today and forever, there is nothing that you and him together cannot handle! Simon Wachira -Ken Okoth has been the standard-bearer of causes. He stands for real issues. He stands for Wanjiku. He’s highly respected and a sober performer. Now, we read, he’s been silently battling an incurable disease. It is crippling sad. So sad, at his age. I. feel. for. him. God, this is truly our voice. He’s truly ours. Heal him Jehovah. While Kyrgitt Kalya said, this is so sad. Can’t wrap my mind around how cancer has ravaged this nation. Ken Okoth is one great leader. Juliet Mkenya-My favorite MP. Sad to hear this. May the almighty God bless you with good health. Jerry Jared Okeno-Last time I checked, almost 65 Mps were treating cancer in India,they add allowances to themselves everyday instead of advocating for cancer centres in Kenya and its management...Ken Okoth is very strong and he willl surely overcoe this.. Prince Khedira-cancer is cruel;it targets the most productive individuals in the society.Insha Allah he will overcome this. Micheal Okang’a-Sorry to learn about your condition!Doctors treat but God heals.Have faith in Him...we still need you around to set best examples to other Mps. Moziah Markos-I now understand why he has been pushing for legalisation of marijuana. Advanced economies have been using it for cancer treatment. He is one of the best MPs whose development record is unmatched.