The outgoing commissioners were given six years to do their work. But looking at their performance, based what they delivered — not for politicians but for mwananchi — I think they performed poorly. This has nothing to do with legislation, the law or the Ministry. In fact, legislation was enacted several years ago. For me and the Committee, blaming the Ministry is neither here nor there. The commissioners simply did not do their job well. Last week we gave a very good statement as the National Assembly Land Committee that oversights the Commission. We gave a very good example of historical land injustices. They received 388 complaints relating to historical land injustices but they were unable to resolve even one. How can they blame the Ministry for this? The Ministry was not in competition with them in terms of sorting out historical land injustice —which was the biggest reason the commission was formed. We've said before that land is land. They can't say that they were going to work independently because they were independent. The Ministry and NLC must interact. Each has roles that are intertwined in a way. So there must be some relationship between the two institutions. As for the next commissioners, we will only deal with those who will have been identified by the recruitment panel. We hope we will get people of integrity. Their work is cut out for them. The law is very clear on what they must do. We will give them needed support in terms of budget. That's exactly what we did for the outgoing commissioners We were able to push for their budget, including supplementary spending. As a committee, we are pushing for review of the NLC Act. The process of recruiting new commissioners only starts when the commissioners' term has come to an end. This creates a sort of vacuum because it takes about three to four months to recruit new commissioners. So what the committee proposes to do is to amend the law to ensure that three months before the expiry of the term of the outgoing commissioners, the recruitment process can be initiated by the President. The National Assembly Land Committee chairperson spoke to the Star