While Homa Bay Governor Cyprian Awiti (pictured) was having the last laugh after his reelection was upheld by the Supreme Court, disillusioned opponents converged at an exclusive club around Nairobi’s Hurlingham to mourn the decision. They felt let down, you could conclude. The group, including a vocal female politician from the area, could not hide their dejection as they hurled insults at the governor in absentia. A galaxy of politicians, including two MPs from the county said to be harbouring gubernatorial ambitions, attended the event which started a few minutes after 10pm. Movement into the reserved room was strictly restricted. However, a small bird whispered to Corridors of Power that the politicians were in deep thought as they analysed the post-ruling implications. Perhaps the group would like to know that high-octane celebrations were going on elsewhere. Still on matters apex court ruling, a group of politicians, including four MPs, allied to a petitioner in the Wajir governor petition held talks at a hotel along Mama Ngina Street early on Friday morning. The team was not only reeling from the ‘shocking’ decision of the court to uphold Governor Cyprian Awiti’s victory, but was also fearful of what could be the outcome of the Wajir case, whose ruling is set for the next few days. Some were overheard claiming the handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and NASA chief Raila Odinga was being felt even into the corridors of justice. One vocal MP from the Northeastern county was blunt when he told his colleagues that they should not expect a shocker. A CS from Mt Kenya region well known for his deep pockets surprised worshipers at his local church when he gave just Sh1,000 as ‘sadaka’ last Sunday. He often gives at least Sh20,000 when he is around on a Sunday. He seemed to be in deep thought. His handout to worshippers, which he gives immediately after the service, were nowhere that day. He drove away immediately after stepping out of the church. He actually arrived in one car and with only one bodyguard as he drove himself in as opposed to his usual elaborate coterie. Has the financial vaults been drained or what could the CS be planning? Well, time will tell. Did DP William Ruto donate a car of higher value than what his boss President Uhuru Kenyatta donated to the new Kisumu Catholic Diocese Archbishop, Philip Anyolo? We’re told the Head of State gave out a Sh5 million Prado, but Ruto showed up with a Sh8 million Toyota Land Cruiser V8. Some people claimed the DP was disrespecting his boss in public. Click here for the latest political news