In Kenya’s schizophrenic politics, it is sometimes difficult to find meaning in every word or action of the politicos. Like the narcos of yonder, the politicos of Kenya can be extremely wily, guileful even rancorous. And absurd. We are in the middle of what could turn out to be an acrimonious drive to change the Constitution. The politicos cannot tell us exactly why we need a constitutional change. Worse still, they cannot seem to agree on which part of the Constitution should be changed. Increasingly, however, it is becoming more about Ruto the person. In the final moments of the making of this Constitution — just before the 2010 referendum — the draft presented in Parliament was subjected to intense final debate before being passed. Nearly every MP wanted to change something. The drafters had, however, placed a clever article that required the legislators to raise a two-thirds support of the House to change anything. The MPs moved motion after motion but could not create any consensus among themselves and the drafters gleefully watched as their baby was returned to them undamaged. But today, the same politicos are jostling for another window to change the Constitution, but for different reasons THE STEW POND The move to change the Constitution began with ‘Punda Amechoka’ arguments to reduce the size of government, the number of counties and also the wage bill. This was in the wake of the ballooning public debt and declining tax revenues. Then the mood suddenly changed. Lately, however, everything has basically melted into just one item — the structure of the Executive. Embattled Deputy President William Ruto, realising that the political space in Kenya had turned into a mucky stew pond, decided to prosecute his case in a foreign land. He made his views on the proposed constitutional changes at a speech in Chatham House in London, where he wondered what malaise the creation of a post of Prime Minister was designed to cure. If the problem was ‘winner-takes-all’ and ‘lack of inclusion’ in an executive Presidency, then, he argued, the executive Prime Minister would still be a ‘winner-take-all’ and they could still emerge from the same tribal formations we see today further exacerbating the feelings of exclusion. What he was not telling us is that he is opposed to any proposal that could make it easier for Raila come to power in 2022. He further argued in London that the culture of not accepting election results was really where the problem lay. This was, of course, a veiled attack on his friend-turned-nemesis Raila Odinga, who has ran for President in every election since 1997 and each time disputing the results (except in 2002). There now exists an unbridgeable gulf between the two, which is worsened increasingly bitter rhetoric from their mutual lieutenants. DANGER IN THE HORIZON Ruto has called for the creation of the position of Leader of the Official Opposition and elevating the Deputy President to be the leader of government business in the House. He seems to rule out the possibility of further diluting the powers of the President in what is a near similar situation that Raila was in when he was Prime Minister. During the height of his premiership, 2013 was Raila’s year of assumption (to the Presidency). He did not see any obstacle standing on his way. So, at Naivasha, he did not fight for the premiership, which he already had. He wanted something more powerful and so we got an executive Presidency, only that it fell on the wrong hands. So, in like manner, the DP is supporting the executive Presidency in the hope he will get it. And this is precisely what is driving all the dissenting voices against him – people who don’t want to see him become President in the same way he did not want Raila occupy State House in 2013. Karma? Perhaps. Ruto’s detractor-in-chief David Murathe, has thrown his weight behind the constitutional change, if only to frustrate Ruto’s ascendancy in the exact same manner the DP had invested his energy in stopping Raila. RUTOPHOBIA In many ways, Murathe’s drive and indeed many of those clamouring for constitutional changes, is driven by a whole new dimension of things – Rutophobia. Those afflicted by it are now displaying schizoid mannerisms, with their actions coming, as they do, with all the attendant absurdity. One such action is Murathe’s intended prosecution at the Supreme Court for a determination as to whether the Deputy President (read ‘Ruto’ the person) should retire with the President at the expiry of the latter’s term. In short, if a more agreeable person to him were Deputy President, such action would not be necessary. Another similar schizoid action is the call by Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka to to remove term limits so that Uhuru (the person) could extend his Presidency. Although he has since disavowed his ill-advised utterances, it is by no means the last we will hear of it. Rutophobia, however, is also the raison for the clamour to clip the powers of the Presidency just in case everything else fails and he should become the president. When he appeared on BBC HARDTalk, host Steven Sucker basically thrashed him with a barrage of questions that may as well have been written by Rutophobics. Behind Sucker’s purposeful questions was a dark seam of hopelessness in a Ruto presidency. Sucker effectively portrayed him as a man with a barren deficit of credibility. Those questions seemed designed to further propel the case for a constitutional change, lest Ruto become President in its current form. But if the politicos of this nation should change the Constitution with individuals in mind, the judgment of History, I am afraid, will serve to further diminish whatever hope we had in our, nationhood.