Whether its poking fun at their losing football team, jokes are particularly important because they 'affirm your relationship through laughter', researchers say. The researchers also warn couples who share 'mean-spirited jokes' are unlikely to last, with nasty jibes indicating a problem in the relationship. The research was done by the University of Kansas, and was led by associate professor Jeffrey Hall from the department of communication studies. It was published in the Daily Mail. "Playfulness between romantic partners is a crucial component in bonding and establishing relational security", Professor Hall said. Shared laughter is an important indicator of romantic attraction between potential mates. The scientists analysed 39 studies made up of more than 150,000 participants to determine how important humour is in a romantic relationship. It is also good to know that people thinking you are funny or can make a joke out of anything does not mean you will be more lucky in love. In Kenya, most celebrity couples who have spent a lot of time together say they quarrel less. Artists Nameless and Wahu have been together for more than a decade and during their last anniversary, the former said,“We know we have our own battles and we are not perfect. But a lot of people are inspired by our marriage and we have to be the best.” “We see a lot of goodwill and people wishing us well. So, even with our struggles at times, we consider the people who look upon us. We joke a lot in the house and with our daughters as well.” Mercy Masika in a recent interview said she says sorry even when her husband, who is also her manager, is wrong. "I forget very fast when we quarrel but I think it is because I value my faith so much and I never go to bed without solving any argument I have had with my husband," she said. TV anchor Lulu Hassan and husband Rashid Abdalla work together because they are good friends. "We hardly argue and when we do, we don't take it that seriously, just little misunderstanding," she said. "We were friends before we married each other and that is why we know how to work together." Couples who 'create humour together' via inside jokes are more likely to last. "People say they want a sense of humour in a mate, but that's a broad concept," Hall said. What is strongly related to relationship satisfaction is the humour that couples create together. For example, "If your partner shares a quirky sense of humour, but romantic comedies or sit-coms do nothing for either of you." It's not that any style or sense of humour is any better or worse. What matters is you both see quirky humour as hysterical. If you share a sense of what's funny, it affirms you and affirms your relationship through laughter. But before you laugh at your other half's receding hairline or moan about your mother-in-law, Professor Hall warns couples not to go too far. Having an aggressive sense of humour is a bad sign for the relationship in general, but it is worse if the style of humour is used in the relationship,' he said. "If you think that your partner tells mean-spirited jokes, then it's likely you've seen that firsthand in your relationship," Hall said.