Leaders should shelve premature debate on referendum and focus on creating jobs, Deputy President William Ruto has said. He said Kenyans want leaders to create jobs instead of wasting time agitating for future positions that might be created through a referendum on the Constitution. “There is no shortage of positions in Kenya. What exists is shortage of job opportunities for Kenyans which can be addressed through implementation of the Big Four agenda,” Ruto said. “Debates on positions and elections should not be there. We have no time to waste on debates that have no impact on the lives of Kenyans. This is an opportunity for us to focus on development.” The DP spoke at Christ is the King Amalemba Catholic Parish in Kakamega county yesterday where he presided over a funds raiser. Ruto donated Sh2 million and said President Kenyatta sent Sh1 million. The event was attended by Sports CS Rashid Echesa, Governor Ferdinand Waititu (Kiambu), MPs Titus Khamala (Lurambi), Bernard Shinali (Ikolomani), Malulu Injendi (Malava), Emmanuel Wangwe (Navakholo), Charles Gimose (Hamisi) and former Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale. On Thursday, ODM leader Raila Odinga hinted that a referendum on the Constituion will be held this year. “This year is going to be a year of change in this country. We want to look at our governance structures and see what needs to be rectified,” he said. “We want to change this country, and the change movement is on. Anybody who does not want to move with it will be left behind,” Raila said. Ruto said the high cost of living and unemployment will be dealt with via implementation of the Big Four agenda: housing, manufacturing, healthcare and food security. Governor Waititu said Mt Kenya voters would elect Ruto in 2022. Waititu said that no one should cheat Kenyans that the DP will not receive support from Central, adding that the original plan of the region backing Ruto in 2022 is intact. “As the people of Mount Kenya region, we follow development. And we know and we have seen the kind of work our Deputy President has done in terms of development. All the other things are just noise, empty stories, and vague politics,” Waititu said. The governor told the people of Western to join the campaign for Ruto to succeed President Kenyatta. Waititu took a swipe at those opposed to DP Ruto, adding that everyone regardless their background is free to seek the country’s top leadership position. Ruto will take over the mantle despite his humble background, he said. “Let people know that any child in this country however poor they are or even if he is of a single mother can be a leader. For that reason in 2022 we shall follow the son of the poor, who has been a hustler, who has sold chicken and risen to the level he is now, and that is none other than William Samoei Ruto.” Waititu said Raila cannot decide the leader of this country. Raila did nothing citizens can be proud of during his time as the Prime Minister, he said. Kibera remains the worst slum in Kenya despite Raila serving as MP for Lang’ata for many years, Waititu said. “We are supporting Ruto because of his work and also because he can be trusted. We the people from Mt Kenya promised that we shall vote for him in 2022. We shall surely honour our promise,” the governor said.