The Anti-Counterfeit Agency has announced plans that will elevate its efforts in fighting illicit trade with the full backing of the government. ACA executive director Elema Halake said the plan will make the agency an authority, affirmed with the responsibility to help in policy formulation in the Ministry of Trade and research organizations. ACA is part of Multi-Agency Anti-Illicit Trade Outreach (MAAITO) comprising of the Kenya Revenue Authority, the Kenya Police and the Kenya Bureau of Standards. The agency has seized illicit goods worth more than Sh80 billion between June-September last year. “This gives us an opportunity to enhance our private sector collaboration initiatives. We are delighted that more enforcement and inspection officers under the agencies will be trained on how to identify counterfeit goods,” Halake said. According to Halake, about 40 per cent of Kenya’s market share is dominated by counterfeit products, while an approximate Sh30 billion is lost by Kenyan manufacturers per year. Some are imports supposedly in transit to neighbouring countries, then diverted to the local market with no import fees paid. The government loses Sh6 billion annually in foregone tax revenue. Halake is a member of the Inter-Agency Anti-Illicit Trade Executive Forum formed last year by the Trade ministry. The taskforce with chief executives of the Kenya Association of Manufacturers (KAM), the Kenya Private Sector Alliance and the Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry is also mandated with preparing a report on the progress and challenges in the war on illicit trade every year to be submitted to the minister. “Companies operating internationally can face a struggle when enforcing their intellectual property rights and may decide to concentrate on markets where the odds and profits are in their favour. However, anyone should come to trade and invest in the county with the setup IP laws,” he said. The announcement to be a full authority counters the agency’s implementation of its five-year strategic plan made in 2017. The plan involved strengthening its human capital capacity, finance and infrastructure. Halake made the remarks on their promotion after they were feted by a Dolby Laboratories for its efforts to protect intellectual property rights in Kenya. The American company will be training on authentication of products.