After months of controversy and tension in the swimming fraternity, the eagerly awaited Kenya Swimming Federation (KSF) elections will finally be held on June 15. The national federation risk suspension from world governing body, FINA if elections are not held by the end of June. The sport has been dodged by controversy in the last decade prompting them to be part of the FINA agenda at a congress held recently in China. Despite the resignation of long serving chairman Ben Ekumbo two years ago, the sport still grapples with long standing issues. One of the major issues the sport faces is the selection of swimmers to the Olympics and World Championship events, which has rubbed swimmers the wrong way. A case in point is the 2016 Olympics in Rio de Janeiro Brazil, where US-based Rebecca Kiruri, Issa Abdalla and Emily Muteti were dropped in controversial circumstances despite meeting the qualification time for the games. Swimmers have been treated to poor conditions especially during the CANA events in the last couple of years with some sleeping on the floor. Swimmers, who took part in the World Championships in China last year are yet to be reimbursed Sh900,000 from the federation months after the event had happened. The swimmers include Ridhwana Abubakar, Danilo Rosafio, Rebecca Kamau and Imara Bella Thorpe. The awarding of scholarships to promising swimmers to the IOC programmes has also been questioned by several stakeholders with upcoming swimmers locked out. This comes after an Interim Management Committee (IMC) meeting held on Wednesday where they came up with road map to the polls . The draft constitution which has been a bone of contention between stakeholders and the federation for the past two years will be sent out to stakeholders on February 21. Stakeholders will deliberate on the constitution and make amendments on the document for the next 18 days. Meanwhile Eight swimmers will represent the country at the CANA Zone 4 Championships in Windhoek, Namibia this weekend. Riva Karia, Ivan Hart, Naraya Bagha, Abdul Bagaha, Ashley Kagwima, Rebecca Nanjala, Kenda Maye and Jasmin Kimani will fly the country’s flag at the event. Nurayn will feature in the Open Water competition and this will be her second appearance at regional competitions having participated in Zone 3 in Sudan in November.