In January 1994, we lost Jaramogi Oginga Odinga, then the veteran leader of the opposition in Kenya. Jaramogi had been at the centre of the nationalist movement for Independence, and campaigned for the release of freedom fighters at a time when it was very risky to do so. As we enter our sixth decade after Independence, there are very few who were alive when Kenya was still a colony of Great Britain. The majority of Kenyans today are those born after Independence. This cohort only knows colonial Kenya from history books and stories told to them by parents or schoolteachers. It is hence important from time to time to recollect our past and put our history into a proper perspective for them. It is said that those who cannot remember their past are likely to make mistakes in building for their future. One of the most important messages the nationalists used to mobilise our people to struggle for independence was the need for national unity to wage war against the real enemies of our social progress: Poverty, ignorance and disease. Yet, looking back we find that even our own nationalists failed to bring our people together, and quite often plunged our people into terrible internal conflicts. We begin asking ourselves how, when and why the rains started beating us in our journey towards national unity and social progress. Many of those born more recently may not know much about Jaramogi. His life, his experiences, his political struggles and his writings provide us with a wealth of knowledge and information in resolving the puzzle regarding how, when and why the rains started beating us after struggling so successfully for independence. For those who are not aware, the European settlers who came to Kenya at the end of the 19th Century were determined to stay and enjoy the wealth of Kenya using Africans merely as their servants and labourers. In those days, they called us “kaffirs” (jo-kafiri in Dholuo). They did not intend to educate us beyond primary school, just to make us literate enough to serve them in menial jobs and lower level public service jobs. People like Jam who went further with schooling became the catalysts for our struggle for freedom. In his biography, Not Yet Uhuru, Jaramogi tells it all. It is a book which should actually become a “must read” in high schools and universities so that our young ones can grow up knowing how we became Kenyans, and what it took to get where we are today. Our young ones should also read Jomo Kenyatta’s “Facing Mount Kenya” and “Suffering Without Bitterness” and Tom Mboya’ s “Freedom and After” and “The Challenge of Nationhood.” Let me also suggest a documentary series that we all must challenge ourselves to do. This is a series which should appropriately be entitled “The Making of Modern Kenya: From the Perspective of its Leaders.” I must commend Kenyan leaders, some of whom have passed on already, who have written their biographies which can now be incorporated in this documentary series. Raila Odinga’s Flames of Freedom fits into this genre, so does Moody Awori’s “Riding on a Tiger: An Autobiography”. Many more, already written and yet to be published, can be added. But let me now go back now to Jaramogi. This year marks the Silver Jubilee of his passing. When we held the celebrations of his life in Kisumu last weekend, Prof Ahmed Mohiddin gave a memorial lecture that was centred on the debate on “African Socialism”, the theme of the Kanu Manifesto of 1963. With the publication of the Sessional Paper No 10 of 1965, African Socialism was carefully crafted to provide a neo-liberal ideology for Kenya’s development, moving away from the key social democratic ethos intended at the dawn of independence. Jaramogi had no alternative but to resist this move to the right, especially on issues of equity, social justice and land ownership and distribution. He was, by 1966, pushed out of the leadership of Kanu as well as his position as the Vice President of the republic. He opted to quit the party, form the opposition party the Kenya Peoples Union and seek a new mandate as MP for the people of Bondo. For a man who had been a lone voice in the Legislative Council in 1958 calling for the release of Jomo Kenyatta and all other detainees as  “the true leaders of the people”, this separation from his comrade was not easy to take. For those of us who knew Jaramogi and worked with him closely, he was never bitter with Kenyatta. He regarded that whole episode as part and parcel of “Cold War” machinations masterminded by such CIA characters such as the then US Ambassador to Kenya, William Attwood, who wrote that notorious book The Reds and the Blacks. But of course, added Jaramogi, the imperialists also had their local lapdogs who admired the colonialists way of life “sincerely.” Young people today cannot even remember what the Cold War was all about yet it shaped the world we live in today. When it was thought by western powers that China was a pariah in world politics, Jaramogi visited that country and warned the West that one of these days they will have to reckon with that nation of one billion people. He admired the attention given to peasant production and the communal living in villages. Today China has become a world power and even the US is beholden to Chinese credit for her economic survival. We celebrated the life of Jaramogi with his family in recognition of what he did in the Luo community,  initiating the Luo Thrift and Trading Corporation,cwhich inspired small and medium scale business initiatives in Nyanza region. Jaramogi also led popular grassroots movements for political and cultural awareness in the whole of East Africa as a social democrat. All this wealth of history cannot be left to disappear with the physical absence of Jaramogi on this earth. We in Kisumu feel strongly that a statue in memory of him is more than appropriate in Kisumu, somewhere on Jaramogi Oginga Odinga road. Further, an Institute for the study of Democratic Change would provide a permanent Centre for intellectual discourse that would immortalise the ideas, values and ideals of Jaramogi and other African nationalists and democrats. I was not surprised that some naive people criticised us for putting up billboards in Kisumu in his memory. Some even said the celebration was “a waste of money.” Fortunately enough, I have come to realise that reactionary persons who have been deprived of the gravy train of corruption in the County will fight us on many fronts. One such front is the propaganda war. I am aware that such groups exist. Let them brace for a bruising battle. With the people and God on our side who can be against us. 