Mandera Governor Ali Roba wants the Handshake principals to explain what it is all about, 10 months since the deal was made public. Roba broke his silence on the Handshake on Thursday, saying President Uhuru Kenyatta and Nasa leader Raila Odinga should tell Kenyans the particulars of the “mystery”. The Jubilee-elected governor said   he fully supports the agreement  as it has helped reduced political tension in the country after the 2017 elections. The governor said he expected governors, senators and MPs to have by now understood the Handshake more clearly. “As Kenyan leaders shouldn’t we just get time to understand some issues more clearly? Don’t we have a right to be engaged a bit more closely? Should it be some enclosed issue in the hearts of a few people and we are expected to fall in place in the spirit of the handshake,” Roba asked. Roba further hit out at the Building Bridges team for “turning” itself into a referendum opinion collecting agency. “They are just moving up and down and busy collecting views on referendum. When I get the opportunity to give my views in those meetings I will make my stand known.” The governor said he is totally against the change of the Constitution, referring to the clamour for referendum that is fast gaining momentum in the country. “Kenyans should first be told what is wrong with the Constitution, instead of the push to create more positions at the top level to accommodate certain people,” the Mandera leader said. There has been a push from various quarters, including ODM, to have the current presidential system scrapped in favour of a parliamentary system. “I honestly think the current presidential system is working very well and has done so everywhere across the globe.” Roba said the fact that somebody refuses to accept the results does not make the system wrong. He said Kenyans are growing  their democratic values ,adding that what was required is patience to allow the systems to work. “If you establish positions like, let’s say nine, and people still fight during elections, are you going to keep increasing the positions?” He said revenue allocation should get more attention.