The Prison Service yesterday was ordered to explain in detail why an accused AP officer in the Willie Kimani murder trial was not in court. Before the directive was issued, Justice Jessie Lessit had ordered that Sylvia Wanjiku be produced in court before the trial proceeds. Two hours later,Wanjiku was produced in court by the prison. The official of the prison said they were unaware of yesterday’s hearing. “The production order we had was for February 18, not 11. It was an oversight on our part and we promise it will never happen again,” the court heard. The judge was dissatisfied with reasons given by the prison authorities. She ordered an inquiry into the circumstances that led to Wanjiku not being brought to court. She directed them to file the report by Friday this week. Four Administration Police officers — Fredrick Leliman, Stephen Cheburet, Sylvia Wanjiku and Mr Leonard Maina Mwangi — and a police informer Peter Ngugi, have denied murdering human rights lawyer Kimani, his client Josephat Mwenda and taxi driver Joseph Mururi. Kimani’s client had persisted in filing a case against an AP officer for violent treatment. All the men were in court. The three were kidnapped after leaving the Mavoko law courts on June 23, 2016. They were tortured. Their bodies were retrieved on July 1, 2016, from the Athi River, near Donyo Sabuk police post. Read: Cop in Willie Kimani murder case headed an undercover police unit of 5 Yesterday. Officer Kennedy Mwadime continued testifying, showing the places where they captured the police radio signal on June 24, 2016. He said there were nine locations from 157 frames. The locations were from Mlolongo police station, Syokimau police post, Mombasa Road, Eastern Bypass and Juja.Mwadime indicated how the ELTE police radio moved on that day and the following day. The Huwaei 4G radio that gets updated periodically shows starts the trajectory at Athi River in Mavoko to Mombasa Road and later Juja. At 1.40pm to 14.40, it was captured from Syokimau police station coming from Mlolongo and heading to Gateway Mall. There it did not generate any coordinates and there was no date captured, because it might have been switched off. At 7.20pm the signal is captured close to Mombasa Road near a dirt road in an isolated area like a field near Lywood apartments. The radio was still there at 9.40, but the next time it was captured was midnight on the Eastern Bypass heading towards Kangundo Road. At 1am it was captured on Thika Super highway, heading to Juja and Thika. Officer Mwadime said they could not capture anything beyond since it is analogue network. The police radio signal later came from Juja going back to Eastern Bypass. It was also captured the next day at a house in Valley View Park Estate. Click here for the latest political news