Behind every successful man is a woman, so they say. And Governor Martin Wambora has Teresia Muthoni, a woman he married in 1970s. Then Wambora worked as a District Officer in the Ministry of Provincial Administration and Internal Security. A would-be doctor, Teresia left the University of Nairobi’s school of medicine when she got married. “I told her that if you’re married to Wambora, you have to leave your career and join me in managing our businesses,” Wambora said. Since then, Teresia has literally stood with her husband even during tough times. Wambora lost nearly all friends when he was impeached as Embu governor in 2014. But not Teresia. She stood with her husband. She says the man is not a master of confrontational politics. “He does not talk much. He is interested in action and sometimes forgets to seek votes for himself,” Teresia said while campaigning for Wambora in Mbeere North in 2017. Teresia kept a low profile during the first 10 years of her husband’s life in elective politics that began in 2002. She was managing family business from their private office at the Embassy House along Harambee Avenue, Nairobi. She relocated to Embu in 2013, when Wambora sought to become the first Embu governor. After his first impeachment, Teresia has always appeared by her husband’s side in most public events. She has also been more vocal, sometimes to the chagrin of politicians who feel she was usurping the governor’s powers. The soft-spoken mother of four speaks fluent Kiembu, Kimbeere and Kikuyu languages. As a medic, she mostly champions maternal and child health projects in Embu. She was instrumental for Embu to become the second county to get the Beyond Zero mobile clinic from First Lady Margaret Kenyatta. Teresia has also mobilised women to register for NHIF’s Linda Mama cover to access free maternity services in public hospitals. “We call her our Mum. She has stood by her husband in the most difficult time, a great lesson for all of us,” nominated MCA Sicily Njiru said. The couple’s four chaildren include Citizen TV sports anchor Mukami Wambora. “She is a lawyer who left her job at Cooperative Bank’s legal department to go and do sports. She said that’s her passion,” her father said. Irene, Wambora’s eldest daughter, is a tourism management specialist who runs the family’s Countryview Downtown Hotel on the Embu-Meru road. The governor’s son Chris is an IT specialist in Nairobi. The brother Charles lives in Sydney having graduated from Curtin University in Australia.