Former Kiambu Governor William Kabogo has urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to sack and blacklist all government officials linked to corruption scandals. Some Cabinet secretaries and other top government officials including governors have been implicated in major scandals. Speaking to Star on Wednesday, Kabogo said that Uhuru should not spare anyone mentioned by the investigative agencies. "It’s time for Uhuru to act on corrupt officials who are stealing public money as Kenyans are suffering under their leadership," he said adding the government should auction their properties as well as freezing their accounts in an effort to recover the stolen money. He said that the President's Big Four agenda may be a pipe dream if he fails to sack the corrupt officers as the money intended for the projects will be squandered. "Kenyans are tired of scandal stories everyday and public confidence is diminishing, the few wrongs are overdoing the positive progress of the Jubilee government and thus those mentioned should step down awaiting completion of the investigations,” he said. Read: You will pay dearly for stealing public funds, Uhuru tells corrupt state officials Kabogo also said officials heading Parastatal mentioned in the scandals should also quit for effective investigations. Kabogo sentiments come barely a day after ANC leader and former deputy Prime Minister Musalia Mudavadi requested Uhuru to sacks finance cabinet secretary Henry Rotich over the misuse of office. Rotich recorded a statement last week on Monday at the Directorate of Criminal Investigations over the Arror multi-purpose dam in Marakwet West constituency and Kimwarer in Keiyo South constituency. Cotu Secretary General Francis Atwoli has also urged Uhuru to sacks officials who are stealing public money for their selfish gain. "If none of the corrupt officials will be sent to jail, then citizens will take up that responsibility. We will organize ourselves and face them,” Atwoli said. More; Kenyans will hunt down corrupt individuals, Atwoli tells Uhuru Click here for the latest political news