Once upon a time, in a country far away and long ago, the King (occasionally Queen) could refuse to sign (called vetoing) new laws passed by Parliament. The power of the monarch to make law waxed and waned over the centuries, as first the monarchy established its dominance over the people, displacing the people as lawmakers, then the power of the monarch waned as Parliament became more powerful and assertive. By the 15th Century, the monarch’s powers had been reduced to accepting or rejecting a whole Bill. But until 1688 (the date of one of the revolutions that threw out one king and brought in another) the royal power to veto was unquestioned. But royal vetoes of Parliament’s had been one trigger for the previous revolution that led to the execution of the King and to civil war. From 1688 acceptance of the full scope of monarchy’s power declined and English law students are (or used to be) taught that no monarch had vetoed a Bill since 1708. This was an aspect of the monarch being merely a “constitutional monarch”. ENTER ACCESS TO INFORMATION In 2013, a bombshell was ignited by requests for information, under English right to information law passed in 2000. One requester was a student in need of the material for his PhD thesis! The bombshell was that Bills (before they were passed by Parliament) were in fact regularly submitted to the Queen, and her son and heir, for approval. The laws were supposed to be only those that affected the monarchy. In one case, apparently the Queen had blocked vetoed a private member’s Bill, which said that military strikes on Iraq would require parliamentary, not royal approval. You may imagine the furore that this revelation caused. The government had, incidentally, vigorously resisted releasing the information. In reality, it was ministers who advised the Queen to reject proposed Bills. SOME AMERICAN HISTORY Notions of what a Head of State might do crossed the Atlantic and are embedded in the US Constitution, and what one author called the “theoretical underpinnings of the American presidency”. American are perhaps fortunate that by the time their revolution occurred, the British monarch no longer had the power to suspend laws or to exempt individuals from their effects, but had only the power to reject a whole law. The US Constitution says, “Every Bill … passed …shall, before it become a Law, be presented to the President …; if he approve he shall sign it, but if not he shall return it, with his Objections, to that House in which it shall have originated, who shall … proceed to reconsider it. If after such Reconsideration two thirds of that House shall agree to pass the Bill, it shall be sent, together with the Objections, to the other House, by which it shall likewise be reconsidered, and if approved by two thirds of that House, it shall become a Law.” This was included despite the experience the budding Americans had had with the English King rejecting many pieces of legislation. They did experiment with not having any veto (at the level of the individual states that eventually joined together to form the United States), but eventually decided there should be a veto but one that could be overridden by two-thirds of the legislature. (They did discuss three-quarters as an alternative.) This scheme has in turn been exported to many countries, including Kenya. Clearly, if Congress (the US legislature) insists, by two-thirds, on retaining the original text, it becomes law whatever the President thinks of it. What is not express is that if Congress passes it in a way that meets the President’s objections, it is assumed the President will sign and it will become law. If Congress does nothing, the Bill does not pass in any form. Overrides of the veto are very rare – perhaps five per cent. This is not surprising. The way things work in practice is that majority leaders in Congress try to ensure what is passed is acceptable to the President (using their best guess of what the President’s view  — so will not be vetoed). If Congress misjudges, and the President still vetoes, it has a choice: To re-pass the law adopting the President’s view. Or to let the law lapse. WHAT HAPPENS IN KENYA? Our President recently sent back five Bills about health issues. From media reports, his reservations mostly seem to be about drafting issues. We must ask, why is somebody not following the debates in Parliament and ensuring the law passed makes sense? If the President has a view that makes sense, it should be possible for this to be part of the debate. So who is sleeping on the job? Majority leader Aden Duale? The Attorney General? The Office of the President? And surely one consequence of the provisions about two-thirds to override the President ought to be that Parliament carefully considers what it passes because it knows it can probably not insist. When Parliament receives a presidential memo, the Constitution says it “may” pass an amended version or re-pass the original by two-thirds. Parliament thinks it has only these two possibilities. It has never done the second. Re-reading Article 115 of the Constitution, I am convinced that Parliament has the option to do nothing. As in the US Constitution, silence does not necessarily mean something cannot be done. If Parliament does nothing for 21 days (the period that its own Standing Orders give for considering the President’s reservations), then the law lapses. How would that be better? If Parliament and the President, or even one of them, really cared about the legislation, and if Parliament was not compelled (as it believes) to roll over and do what the President wanted, maybe Parliament and the executive would look at Bills with more care and try to get them right first time. COURT DECISIONS This presidential power — or abuse of power — has been before the courts at least twice. By the way, it happens at county level as well — governors are just as guilty. One court said, “It was apparent that the drafters of the Constitution intended that the President's reservations ought to almost prevail when they imposed a higher threshold of two-thirds of members in order to reject or amend the reservations.” The court said the President did nothing wrong in sending his reservations in the form of alternative drafts. This seems unobjectionable — provided that the President and his advisers are prepared to accept a sensible alternative way of phrasing the same point. The issue does not lie with how the President expresses his view, but with the degree of seriousness with which Parliament and President (who is entitled to the advice of the AG and should have good lawyers in his office) treat the whole legislative process. The fact is that the whole lawmaking process is rather sloppy, and (with some honourable exceptions) not approached with the right degree of professionalism. PUBLIC PARTICIPATION MUST NOT BE FORGOTTEN However, the court made a good point when it said that “should the President make substantial recommendations that significantly alter the character of the Bill as earlier passed, [Parliament] has to consider whether public participation will be necessary before passing those recommendations”. The veto power was in all drafts of the Constitution, but until 2010 these were all parliamentary systems. The President would have had no power base in Parliament. He/she was not intended to be an active legislator, but to have a backstop, checking role. The power should have been reconsidered when MPs shifted the system to a presidential one. Perhaps, as in South Africa, it should have been limited to raising constitutional issues. The result of all this is that the President is able to play a much more frequent, and potentially more far-reaching, role in the legislative process than any British monarch for several centuries. The writer is a director of Katiba Institute