I wrote extensively last week that Chelsea manager Maurizio Sarri is facing the sack at Stamford Bridge. This week that story has gathered speed and failure in the Carabao Cup final tomorrow against Manchester City could signal the end for the manager. There are two things I can tell you, neither of which will amuse Sarri. First, after the home loss to Manchester United, Chelsea chairman Bruce Buck telephoned club owner Roman Abramovich, who is in Israel at the moment, and they discussed not only the 2-0 loss but also the players’ lack of motivation under Sarri because of his failing tactics. Abramovich does not keep under achieving managers. I witnessed the home loss at Stamford Bridge and the fans were shouting abuse at Sarri almost from the start however there was one period of humour when the Manchester United fans sarcastically sang, “You can have Mourino back, you can have Mourinho back!”…it brought much amusement around the ground on a miserable evening for the Blues. I learned the latest from Stamford Bridge and the main name in the frame for Sarri’s job is ex-Paris St Germain manager Laurent Blanc. Sarri’s Assistant Coach Franco Zola is not being considered at the moment. Ex-Chelsea idols Frank Lampard and John Terry are not currently the best options with Lampard managing Derby and Terry, who is working at Aston Villa as a coach, is thought to be too inexperienced. Ex-Real Madrid manager Zidan Zinedine speaks poor English and this is going against him. Sarri faces his players but they chicken out Following the recent turmoil and feelings amongst the players that they do not believe in Maurizio Sarri’s tactical methods of fast paced driving football, a clear the air meeting was suddenly called by the manager on Tuesday at the training ground. He addressed the players and asked if anyone doesn’t believe in him as the manager and his methods. The players ducked out of any confrontation and not one of them stood up and spoke out against the manager. After the meeting, central defender David Luiz said it was because everyone believes in the manager. That is not what I have heard so I am wondering why the players chickened out? Kane looks to return this weekend I was surprised to see Harry Kane training at Tottenham on Tuesday. He came back for more on Wednesday and despite the medical team telling me a couple of weeks ago that he wouldn’t be back in action until March, it looks like Harry could return this weekend against Burnley. Bad news for Burnley manager Sean Dyche as he considers facing the Premier League’s finest along with in form Son Heung Min. Harry even went shopping with his wife Katie following the training although manager Mauricio Pochettino has told him to remain quiet, take it easy and they would assess his ability to play on Saturday morning. Harry is desperate to return and has told the manager that his recent ankle injury is not worrying him. Everton’s players back Silva but the fans don’t Everton seem like a split personality disorder at the moment. The players are still behind manager Marco Silva but he has angered the fans. The players point out that Silva presents them with every little detail about their opponents, their set-pieces and their strengths and weaknesses. Preparation is meticulous they say. The players were defending their manager who is coming under increasing pressure following just two wins in eight Premier League games and with 17 goals shipped from set pieces. Everton’s Brazilian winger Bernard told us that the dressing room is fully behind the manager. He said: “He is a coach who talks a lot with the players and who, if necessary, explains things five or six times if the player does not understand what he is trying to get them to do. I had several offers from European clubs last summer but I chose Everton because I wanted to work with Marco Silva. He was, for me, crucial to the deal.” The fans are less than in agreement over the manager’s decision to give the team an extra break and that was after 17 days without a game before playing this coming Tuesday against Cardiff. Silva decided that after playing four games in 11 days they should have a further rest. However, the fans point out that the Toffees have lost 10 times in 16 games and that is not good enough and they should be working harder. Arsenal look for a solution Arsenal have lost patience with their former star Mesut Ozil I am told. The situation has become embarrassing and the club are openly looking for options to put the German out on loan. Manager Unai Emery is tired of Ozil’s excuses for not being available and even when the player reports fit he is surplus to Emery’s requirements due to not training regularly. The problem is that Ozil has reported in sick too many times pleading a bad back, a flu virus and knee problems. Ozil has missed more than 100 games during his move from Real Madrid six seasons ago but has never suffered a bad injury. The club blame previous manager Arsene Wenger and Chief Executive at the time, Ivan Gazidis for renewing Ozil’s contract until 2021 which at £18m-a-year guarantees Ozil nearly £50million. On those wages, there are not many clubs who could afford him and unfortunately for both Ozil and Arsenal no clubs have shown any interest in buying him and the player has said he will not consider a loan to another club and he definitely will not move to China where big transfer fees and huge salaries are paid regularly. I agree with Arsene I agree with Arsene Wenger (for once) when he said this week that Arsenal are making a big mistake letting Aaron Ramsey go to Italian giants Juventus. Great for Juve but bad business for the Gunners in my book. As Arsene pointed out, Ramsey is great going forward and he has genuine quality keeping the ball and making impressive runs from deep. On his day he can command and hold the midfield against any opponent. But current manager Unai Emery isn’t a big fan and blocked a move for him to stay at the club on a big salary. And to make matters worse, Aaron is leaving on a free transfer so Arsenal get nothing for him. Pep apologies to Riyad Pep Guardiola doesn’t usually go head to head with his players. He prefers a smooth, friendly and agreeable approach. Because of that, he has apologised to Leicester star Riyad Mahrez for his lack of playing time. Since his £60million transfer last year, the Algerian has started only 20 times in all competitions and a further 14 coming off the bench. Mahrez celebrated his 28th birthday on Thursday and despite training hard and well, he wants more time in the main matches but doesn’t cause any disruption or problems. Pep was quick to point out that both Raheem Sterling and Bernardo Silva have been playing exceptionally well and even Leroy Sane has not been starting. Pep finished by saying: “Riyad is a guy we are happy with but I cannot give him the minutes he deserves but his time is coming and I am pretty sure he is going to play well.” Solskjaer second in counter attacking Ole Gunner Solskjaer said he decides on his teams well in advance and added that his way to win games is to score goals from counter attacks, set plays and breaking down teams who lie deep. Under previous manager Jose Mourinho, United were the worst counter attacking team according to statistics but now, under Solskjaer they are joint second in the Premier League. Following the temporary manager’s incredible winning start to the season, with only a loss to Paris St Germain in the Champion’s League, United have a tough run of fixtures beginning with Liverpool this weekend followed by a tricky away match at Crystal Palace and with Arsenal and Manchester City matches approaching! United players stall on new contracts Manchester United’s Executive Chairman Ed Woodward wants to tie down David De Gea, Ander Herrera and Juan Mata to new contracts by the end of the season. However, all three have stalled and said that until they know who will be the permanent manager they will not sign. All three back Ole Gunner Solskjaer. Gareth still an outsider As Real Madrid’s Gareth Bale celebrates hitting 100 goals for the Spanish giants, his name is forever linked with a return to the Premier League. It is hardly surprising because although Gareth says he would like to stay with Real he is very much an outsider as I have mentioned to you before in this column. For instance, he rarely joins in with the team on bonding sessions and quite often the club have dinners for the players in a local restaurant which he doesn’t attend. In Spain it is tradition to eat late, starting the meal at around 10pm and finishing around midnight. Gareth likes to be in bed by 11pm and that is his excuse for being absent. Also, he is a golf fanatic and loves nothing better than teeing off instead of attending club events. Sounds to me that he would fit in perfectly if he returns to the Premier League.