‘Twaweza’, which translates to ‘we can’, is a name given to a Community Based Organisation in Mombasa comprising 12 disabled women and three men. The name in full is Twaweza Women with Disabilities (TWD). The name was meant to give the CBO the strength to move on and never give up. To be united in happiness and in sad times. Started in 2000, the group has overcome many problems and is hopeful it will continue growing big not only in Mombasa but beyond. The CBO was mainly started to cater for single mothers living with disabilities, who go through a lot to take care of their children. The aim of the CBO is to empower people with disabilities so they can be productive members. TWD executive director Charity Chahasi said it is not right that the disabled should beg but instead use their talents to do what they can do best and get a living out of it. “The aim of coming up with the group was to fight for the rights of single mothers who are disabled, to empower them so they can become productive members,” Chahasi said.  HUMBLE BEGINNINGS The group started with 10 women conducting a merry-go-round funds drive. After accumulating enough cash, they started a grocery business in Bombolulu. They then decided to buy two sewing machines to make clothes and also do repairs on torn clothes. This grew their business, as they got orders to make uniforms and also got orders from hotels. As 2007 post-election violence caused destruction in the whole country, their business was not an exemption, as all their equipment was stolen. They were left with nothing. This was a big blow to them! But, as the name of the group suggests, they believed they could make it again and should never give up. “After the misfortune hit us, we promised to never give up and decided to meet up again and discuss the way forward,” Chahasi said. They started collecting Sh200 monthly contributions per member. They then wrote to a mobile company to get assistance so they could get new sewing machines and revive their business. “We were told to give a budget and Safaricom contributed Sh250,000, with which we bought sewing machines and materials,” she said. More members joined the group, growing it to 20 members. They started making beaded necklaces, earrings and bangles, with their target market being women, achieving great success by 2010. Trying to grow their business further and extend their roots more, in 2013, they wrote a letter to the CDF and got computers and printers, with which they started photocopy, printing and computer training business. Thieves once again brought them down. All their resources, including computers and printers, were stolen and they were again left with nothing.  RESILIENCE WINS With their slogan of never giving up, they decided to again get back to business. They came up with the idea of recycling, turning sacks and used T-shirts into bags and doormats. They also started making peanut butter. The project started in 2016, where the Agriculture ministry donated a machine to make the peanut butter, holding a capacity of 2kg. Making the product only takes them 15-20 minutes. They bought a 4kg capacity machine and using the two machines, they started selling a 60g container of peanut butter at Sh50, 100g at Sh100, 500g at Sh450 and 1kg at Sh700. They named their brand ‘Onja Utamu’. “Peanut butter project has taken us far,” Chahasi said, citing orders from hotels two weeks after the business picked up. Now they aiming to make their business a big resource centre, where you can get different handmade products all under one roof.