Female genital mutilation/cut (FGM/C), even in this era of civilisation and empowerment, remains a dominant cultural activity that has refused to fade away. FGM is still considered a rite of passage to womanhood among some communities. A rite that provides a foundation for early and forced child marriage. A rite that denies girls the chance to make own choices. A rite that violates the physical and mental integrity of a person. I’m not about to preach about stipulating a new policy to end FGM. No. We have laws in place. Despite their passage almost 10 years ago, FGM is still deeply rooted. The Prohibition of Female Genital Mutilation Act, 2011 bans FGM. A lot needs to be done beyond the existing policies and regulations. It is time to go deeper into the communities where FGM is still practised and address the problem from the source. It is time to dialogue with the community members through separate and blended meetings. It is time to have a candid conversation with the circumcisers; we need to know what drives them to take up such a job. Yes, it is a source of income to some, but do they have another reason as to why they stick to it even after continuous warnings and bans? It is time to dialogue with parents—both males and females. The community gatekeepers such as village elders, heads of clans and the elderly need to be talked into understanding the negative repercussions of FGM. It is common knowledge that the key holders of the communities, who happen to enforce their cultures, are overlooked by the private and public agencies fighting against FGM. That is the reason why the cut is increasingly being conducted at a time when we should be implementing the Big Four agenda and moving towards attaining the Sustainable Development Goals. Especially SDG number five: Gender Equality. It is not enough to just rescue girls who are at risk of the cut. Many organisations have done a commendable job providing safe places for such victims to continue their education and even be champions against the vice. But more needs to be done. I had a chance to meet women champions in Isiolo and Kajiado counties who have stood firm against FGM. They have volunteered their time to educate and encourage girls against the cut. These women are taking time to dialogue with parents and circumcisers on the dangers their girls are exposed to in the process of the cut. Community-based organisations such as Il’laramatak Community Concerns have opted to empower their women against the cut with technical skills. Going with their slogan, ‘Cut the Garment, not the Girl,’ the organisation has trained and provided sewing machines to a group of women and their daughters in Kajiado. I believe FGM rates will decline when actionable strategies are used to eradicate it. It will only be possible if a bottom-up approach is adopted; all stakeholders need to come together and tackle the issue from the lowest level of the community. The sole purpose should be to empower girls and women, and end FGM without using forceful tactics. Environmentalist and Founder of www.womennarrate.com Carolinekibii0@gmail.com