I recently came across a phrase that just about summarises the reverence which a majority of Kenyans seem to have for “technology” in the abstract. The writer made reference to “the cult of technological utopianism”. And if that does not immediately strike you as a precise definition of the Kenyan attitude towards what is generically referred to here as “innovation”, then you have not been paying attention. As I see it, this Kenyan cult has strong roots in the phenomenal success of mobile telephony in general, and the Safaricom M-Pesa mobile phone cash transfer system specifically. Those old enough to remember the old Kenya Posts and Telecommunications Corporation will know that for the first 30 years or so after Independence, the Kenyan telecommunications system was inefficient and corrupt. The KPTC was a potentially profitable monopoly, the revenues were usually squandered on white elephant projects to siphon off cash for distribution to the politically connected. And at the same time, you literally had to beg — and take your place in a long queue — if you wanted to obtain a telephone line or any of the hardware that made it functional. With mobile telephony came a whole new approach to the supply of telephone services. First of all the government received a huge chunk of cash upfront as licensing fees from the winner among the giant global corporations competing for the honour of providing this service to ordinary Kenyans. The support infrastructure was then rolled out entirely at the expense of the telecom companies — no government subsidies of any kind. Then came the wonders of the mobile phone and to crown it all, M-Pesa, which we can now honestly say that most Kenyans simply cannot live without. Now consider this: Suppose that in 1992, at a time when a mobile phone handset cost about Sh250,000 and was considered the ultimate emblem of having ‘arrived’; suppose that back then a presidential candidate on the campaign trail had promised to deliver affordable mobile handsets and telephone services to about 15 million Kenyans,would any of us have registered to vote at the time, have believed it? Such a candidate would more likely have been believed if he had promised each of those 15 million Kenyans sumptuous roast beef meals every day, and an annual holiday at the Coast — all free of charge. In short, it was a miraculous change brought about by technological advances, and it produced a huge beneficial impact on the lives of millions in a manner that few could have foreseen in advance. And from this it was but a short hop to the technological utopianism that I recently read about. And the most painfully conspicuous example of this utopianism is in the now-widely-discredited ‘schools laptop project’. In 2013, and at a time when school enrolments had just risen substantially through outgoing President Kibaki’s signature ‘free primary school education’ programme. At a time when classrooms had up to 100 children in a class, sharing desks and space intended for just one third of that number. At a time when public schools were very poorly equipped in every way and lacked enough teachers. That is the time when the Kenyan leadership decided that what schools really needed — at a cost of many billions of shillings — was a laptop for every child. This single step was supposed to bring forth a new generation of Kenyans, so skilled in modern ICT technology, that China and India would soon be choking on the dust from our chariot wheels, as we raced ahead in a technology-driven burst of progress. The reality turned out to be very different. In this as in so many other such grand projects, the Kenyan ruling elite had committed their usual folly of not thinking it through. Thus every now and then an intrepid journalist will go off ‘into the bush’ somewhere in the North Rift, and return with images of children sitting on stones under a tree in what is supposedly their ‘classroom. And in many such cases, you will see some of these kids clutching their dusty, non-functional, government-provided laptops.