IEBC Chairman Wafula Chebukati has proposed an amendment to the constitution that would see the General Election held on two separate dates. The IEBC proposes the presidential and parliamentary elections be held at the same time while the vote for governors and ward representatives be pushed to a different date. "Part of the things we identified is having six elections in one day takes a toll on our staff because they are the same staff who do the polling from 6 am to 5 pm," Chebukati said. "That takes fatigue and we feel that as a commission staggered elections should take place. There will be need to change the laws and the constitution for two different dates." Speaking during an interview on Citizen TV on Wednesday, Chebukati said a staggered election model has worked in other countries especially in the United States where Senators are not all elected at the same time. More on this: IEBC blames election errors on fatigue of poll officials Also read: How Chebukati plans to conduct 2022 elections Chebukati further said he was not aware that former IEBC commissioner Roselyne Akombe was going to resign. Akombe resigned from electoral commission and fled saying the repeat poll "absolutely" cannot be credible as they are being organised by a very "divided commission". “She told me she wants to go to Dubai to check on the ballot papers and I gave her permission to go and the next thing is that she has taken off and gone to New York. It was a shock to me and the commission," Chebukati said. Chebukati said Akombe was in charge of the committee after the election was nullified. "She had complained about security initially and we enhanced her security and therefore her decision to leave the commission is still mind-boggling to me," Chebukati said. The chairman further noted the other commissioners who resigned must have received a direction from higher authorities. Last year, three IEBC commissioners resigned saying chairman Wafula Chebukati had failed to give proper leadership. The three are former Vice-chair Consolata Nkatha, Paul Kurgat and Margaret Mwachanya. More on this: [VIDEO] Three IEBC commissioners resign, say Chebukati a bad leader "I find the statement by Mwachanya and the rest quite dishonest and seems like they were directed by someone to quit," Chebukati added. Click here for the latest political news