Three people including two students were killed in a grisly road accident on Monday evening near Migori market in Ndhiwa constituency. The accident that occurred along Ndhiwa-Rodi Kopany also left six passengers nursing serious injuries. The two students were from Ojode Pala Mixed Secondary school. The accident occurred when a speeding lorry lost control and hit a stationery PSV which was picking passengers by the roadside. Eyewitnesses said the students who were trekking by the road, from the school, were struck and killed. “The lorry lost control, hit a pothole and veered off the road before it rammed the PSV. It then hit the students who were passing nearby,” one of the eyewitnesses said. The students and a passenger in the PSV died on the spot. The lorry was ferrying building materials from Sori Township in Migori County and was heading to Rodi Kopany. Speaking on Tuesday, Ndhiwa OCPD Dishon Chadaka said they took the injured to Homa Bay County Referral Hospital for further treatment. The injured included the lorry driver and his tout. Police said they could not immediately identify the victims by name. “The wrecked vehicles have been dragged to Ndhiwa police station for inspection as we continue with investigations,” Chadaka said. The bodies were taken to Homa Bay Hospital Mortuary. Residents of Ndhiwa have complained about a number of potholes in the road which contribute to accidents in the area. The more than 12km road is impassable in some areas due to the potholes. Resident Selly Manyala said drivers are forced to create paths on the roadside to avoid impassable sections. “Some vehicles cross private farms to avoid deep potholes on the road. Passengers also take longer to reach their destination using the road,” Manyala said. Area MP Martin Owino asked the Kenya National Highways Authority (KNHA) to fast-track the re-carpeting of the road to save locals and users from road accidents. “I urge the government to order for the construction to Rodi Kopany – Ndhiwa road to protect users from accidents,” Owino said. Click here for the latest political news.