In some communities in Kenya, FGM is a rite of passage. In others, the cut simply defines a woman. Anti-FGM lobby Dandelion Africa calls for a change of tack to eliminate it. “This is the reason why when campaigning against FGM in Kenya, we need to focus on implementing legislation and involving young men of marriageable age and schools,” Dandelion founder Wendo Aszed said. FGM is deeply rooted in gender inequality and controlling women's sexuality. Female circumcision is initiated and carried out by women who see it as a source of honour. They believe that failing to take their girls through the procedure exposes them to ridicule and marginalisation. In most communities in Kenya, once a girl has gone through the cut, they are deemed 'ripe' for marriage. Their parents get them suitors, mostly older men. Few communities allow the girls back to school after circumcision. Kenya outlawed FGM in 2001. A second set of laws passed in 2011, making it illegal to promote or facilitate what used to be known as female circumcision. This also came with stiffened penalties. In 2013, following the enactment of the Prohibition of Female Genital Mutilation Act, the Anti-FGM Board was established as a semi-autonomous government agency. The mission of the board was to uphold the dignity and empowerment of girls and women in Kenya through the coordination of initiatives, awareness creation and advocacy against FGM. COMPREHENSIVE LAWS Through the board and different NGOs that have come up, the country continues to spearhead efforts to curb the internationally condemned ritual with the most comprehensive anti-FGM legislation in East Africa. Boys are encouraged to participate in alternative rites of passage in the home, so that information imparted to them during anti-FGM training sessions will empower them to make informed appropriate choices concerning their future. Leaders have also put emphasis on evidence-based research to be used as a campaign tool. As much as FGM has been practised in some form or other for several thousand years, the World Health Organisation recognises that scientific research into the reasons why it continues today and the full extent of the health damage it causes has been limited. The practice can cause short- and long-term health complications, including chronic pain, infections, increased risk of HIV transmission, anxiety and depression, birth complications, infertility and, in the worst cases, death. High-level advocacy by senior government officials, including President Uhuru Kenyatta and the First Lady’s Beyond Zero Campaign, have significantly contributed to the clarion call for an end to FGM. Click here for the latest political news