Once upon a time, a king told his subjects they must contribute more to his coffers so he could buy his family the best things and travel far and wide. Disgruntled subjects continued to contribute each day to the king’s coffers but soon they were left without much for their families. The king forgot that the same people he was overtaxing were the ones who had put him on the throne through a coup. The people got together and kicked him out of the kingdom and took back all their wealth. The king learnt the hard way that the people hold the power and must be allowed to run their lives fairly. The power of the people cannot be underestimated or ignored anywhere, including Kenya today. Politicians from across the board have been keen to push for changes to the 2010 Constitution to address what appear to be gaps in the governance system. Kenyans are in agreement that executive power must be shared and the creation of the position of prime minister is long overdue. Where there seems to be confusion is how the Executive should be structured and whether the president and prime minister should seek their mandate from the people or Parliament. This is a question that we did not adequately address during the last constitution review in 2010, after the Parliamentary Select Committee in Naivasha struck the presidential system compromise. In my opinion, it’s completely ridiculous to insinuate that the president and prime minister must get their mandate from Parliament. This beats the purpose of universal suffrage, which is the cornerstone of democracy. There seems to be a sneaky and deliberate scheme to water down the power of ‘one man one vote’ and instead vest the power of who will lead our nation to a few people, whether in Parliament or smoke-filled boardrooms. I support those stating that presidents cannot come from only two communities, hence the need to guard against this. However, we must oppose those trying to achieve this through back-door manoeuvres by seeking to water down the one-man one-vote principle. Let’s start a national dialogue and hold public participation forums across the country, the same way we did with the constitution draft that culminated in Bomas, for ideas on how to amend the Constitution. The people, not politicians, must lead this process. If we allow politicians to lead the process, we will end up in the same situation where we would be seeking to amend the Constitution again because we allowed vested interests to take centre-stage. We saw this in 2010 when, while Kenyans had convinced the Committee of Experts that the parliamentary system would be best, its proponents were convinced in Naivasha to drop it in favour of the presidential system in the hope that one of their own would win the presidency in the next election. We must, therefore, guard against this form of mischief if indeed the country must go to a referendum. Any form of government agreed upon must be about the people and not a few individuals seeking political power. For this to happen we need to start clear and structured barazas with the people of Kenya down to the village level. Each and every Kenyan should be given a chance to participate in this debate so that we can all agree on a common position. If the Building Bridges Initiative team is to lead us in this direction given the views it has received so far, then it should offer the country direction. Parliament, as the last resort of people’s representation, should then give Kenyans the roadmap for the process, including opportunities for public participation. This will ensure that the process remains people-driven and legally protected. Kenyans know what they want and they must, therefore, be allowed to say it in a structured manner and vote for it in a referendum. Political and communications consultant @MachelWaikenda