Album Review: Summer Walker's "Clear" - EP Davies Ndolo @DaviesNdolo Title: Clear - Ep Artiste: Summer Walker Genre: R&B/ Soul Release: January 25  Summer Walker made a brilliant and bold entrance into the music scene with her 2018 debut album 'Last Day of Summer,' which comprised of essential tunes like "Girls Need Love," "CPR," "Deep" and "Karma." The project made a noticeable inclusion in a time when the contemporary sound of trap soul and R&B have dominated the airwaves. Summer's brevity was greatly showcased with a fine touch of excellence that allowed her to fulfill the purpose of the 12-track album in under 30 minutes. She decided to keep entertaining us, releasing a 4-track live recording EP christened "Clear" early in the year. This time only 10 minutes long, she ensured that her presence continues to be felt. Any music enthusiast with a keen ear for detail can easily pick out her uniqueness which easily melds into her emotional appeal and jazz-leaning sound that truly makes the statement. The EP kicks off with a catchy one and a half minute long track "Riot," which details the essence of love and artiste's need to keep it burning and spontaneous. On the second track "Grave," she expresses great detest to manipulation by men who simply want to use girls for their own sexual pleasure without considering their emotional will. Clearly, you can tell that Summer has set standards that she needs to uphold as a woman. The second half of the EP kicks off with "Wasted," a track that highlights the toxicity in a relationship where Summer is reliant on an individual who doesn't uplift her. It brings out the negativity that comes with being lost in infatuation. The project then closes out with "Settling" which at first listen would appear as an oxymoron. The artist highlights the emotional conflict that she has to undergo in a relationship. 'Clear' is yet another attempt where the Summer Walker easily outdoes herself. In actual essence, it's a clear indication of an artiste headed for greatness. Just like that, the artiste still in her early twenties joins the ranks of her contemporaries including H.E.R., Dua Lipa and Jorja Smith. It's likely we will get to experience more music from her this year and I know her growing fanbase can't wait.   Star rating: 3 out of 5