Two former champions, Mathare United and AFC Leopards who were tipped as title contenders when the season began go head to head this afternoon seeking to halt a poor run of results that may scupper their ambitions. Mathare, who initially lived up to peoples prediction that they would challenge for the title, will be keen to bring those aspirations back on track after a five-match win-less streak that has seen them fall to third on the table—two points adrift of the leaders. The absence of leading scorer Clifford Nyakenya has been particularly felt and his imminent return will provide a timely boost for the Slum Boys as the campaign heads towards the half-way stage. While Mathare are focused on fighting for the league title, their opponents Leopards are concerned with beating the drop. It’s hard for football followers across the country to associate Ingwe with a relegation dog-fight. The reality on the ground, however, is Andre Casa Mbugo must start getting the results needed for Leopards to ultimately banish those fears harboured by the club’s rank and file. The Rwandan coach is barely a month into the job and though improvements have been noted in their performances particularly last weekend, results have remained stubbornly wanting. Prior to this pivotal clash, resurgent Posta Rangers will be taking on Ulinzi Stars with both sides having hit the purple patch after recent struggles. Ulinzi coach Dunstan Nyaudo has urged the soldiers to be more consistent if they are to challenge in the top half of the table. “There was a lot of pressure and getting a win last weekend against Leopards was a relief. It had started affecting even the players and so it was a big boost and this will propel them to the next assignment,” said Nyaudo. “We are playing against a side, who are also struggling like us and also like our last opponents, Leopards. So to approach them, we will need a lot of caution and seriousness. We are definitely looking to start a good run and keep the momentum,” Nyaudo added. Ulinzi is currently on 17 points and placed 11th on the league log— three points and as many places above their opponents in the 2pm kick off at the Kenyatta Stadium in Machakos. League leaders Bandari are confident of consolidating their lead as they have a home date with Nzoia Sugar, whose coach Nicholas Muyoti left earlier in the week to join rivals Kakamega Homeboyz. It’s unlikely they will get any chance from another past coach Bernard Mwalala.