Joseph Mwangi, alias Mwas Joe, who famously manages an upcoming acrobat, has been accused of conning a city woman identified as Wairimu of Sh21,500. Wairimu says she met him on social media and became friends and later exchanged contacts with him. After checking his profiles, she felt convinced he was a legit person after finding out he was the manager of President Uhuru Kenyatta's favourite acrobat. "I was an intern at a private organisation, and so because he told me he works at the United Nations, I asked him to help me find a job anywhere," Wairimu told Word Is on Thursday. She said he replied: "I work in Nairobi, UN branches in... Kuja we hustle pesa ni mingi, starting salary is Sh155,000. Shida inakuanga kuingia coz I won't lie to you, nowadays kupata job huku one has to part ways with cash." We called Joseph for comment and he said, "Who said about UN?" Wairimu added that the acrobats' manager asked her to "send him Sh30,000 for him to push for me, which I did not because I was still doing my internship somewhere else". She said he later told her there was an advertisement job with Delmonte Company and asked if she would be interested in it. "'And by the way, can you do a TV advert? Kuna slot ya mtu mmoja and the pay is Sh250,000,"'he said. Since I did not have the Sh30,000, he said I could send Sh15,000, then he would fill up the rest for me," Wairimu said. M-Pesa screenshots seen by Word Is show she sent him 15,000 on January 17 and the advert was to happen on January 28. "Nothing happened, he kept lying to me and told me he would refund me the money, which up to now he has never done," Wairimu says. When she insisted, Joseph threatened her. "You know you are crossing my red line. Let me advise you, your lawyer and your family. This is a case you can't even win in a chief's office, leave alone a court. That cash you gave me as a bribe, has the lawyer advised you that giving a bribe lands you to jail?" He told her the only option she had is to be patient. Wairimu says all she needs is her money. Word Is reached out to Joseph and his response was as cold as an ice-box, "Ask her if I have ever met her because I don't know her. I am here with my lawyer who is a senator, and did that lady tell you that she paid a bribe to someone which is illegal? "In very simple words, she paid the bribe which is unlawful, she met someone on social media and to me that is fishy, and I have not received any money from anyone. Can you send me the screenshots because I am also a journalist and I don't know her." He threatened to take legal action. Wairimu advises women that in this life there is nothing for free, and anyone who asks for free things will always be conned.