Caroline Mwatha is dead. There is grief, loss, anger and consternation. There are many questions and very few credible answers. There is the sheer horror of reliving the circumstances of the last few months of this courageous young woman’s life. A much-loved and much-admired defender of human rights who, ironically, in her moment of need had no-one to defend her rights. Make no mistake: her tortuous death was forced on her; either by a police hit squad, a government cum religious policy which denied her rights over her own body, or a society that condones poverty and women’s oppression. We will never know what mental agony Caroline went through as that foetus grew within her; nor will we ever know the excruciating physical pain she must have suffered as her body and the foetus were mutilated; nor the deep torment of loneliness she experienced. Where was, or is, the father of that foetus? Does he bear no responsibility? A woman is left to carry the burden; yet she is denied the right to decide how best to handle it. Where is the justice? Where was the Church or pastor to whom she faithfully donated her tithe every Sunday? Not only were they not there for her, but they even disowned her when she was finally laid to rest. Where is the humanity? What kind of a God is it that discriminates and condemns? Is God not all-loving, all-caring, all-merciful? Is that not what we are ALL taught? And before we begin to point fingers at THE CATHOLICS let us just look around. The Klu Klux Clan, which carries the Christian cross as it lynches black people, the US Evangelical churches which preach their racist, sexist and homophobic propaganda to us in Africa and elsewhere; ISIS which beheads so-called kaffirs in the name of Islam and Muslim Mullahs who uphold honour killings and murder in the name of blasphemy; Hindutvas who murder beef-eating Muslims and ‘polluting’ Dalits; Buddhist monks who rape, burn, torture and evict Muslim Rohingyas; Israeli Jews who steal Palestinian land and lives. The list is endless and includes the diabolical role of religion in the whole colonial project. The early prophets had a vision: the philosophies they preached were inspiring, meant to move their communities to a greater humanity. But, as human needs became increasingly displaced by human greed and the profit motive; organised religions have become just another tool for furthering the exploitation of the masses for the benefit of the ruling classes, the capitalists. We live and are brain-washed in a system that has never been pro-people, and never will be. It is a realisation that is dawning across the globe. On our own continent the Arab spring, with its mushrooming protest movements (on-going in Sudan); the heroic people of Palestine, Syria and Iran; the champions of Thomas Sankara, Nelson Mandela, Jeremy Corbyn and Bernie Sanders; the Black Lives Matter and Me Too movements, the struggling governments of Venezuela, Nicaragua, Cuba and Mexico, France’s Yellow Vests; the striking workers and peasants worldwide. Yes, here too the list is growing. Which side of history will we be on? And what can you and I as individuals do? A lot I think. I like the analogy of one stick easily broken, a bundle of sticks difficult to crack. Let Caroline Mwatha’s needless death not be in vain. It has stirred our conscience on many fronts; it behoves us to stand up and be counted. We must share our concerns and convictions with our families, our children, our workmates, our friends and our fellow religionists. But first and foremost we must not be afraid to question the accepted ‘norm’, the seemingly age-old traditions and supremacist pronouncements from the West. We must refuse to just ‘move on’. Justice, and humanity too, be our shield and defender! Zarina@awaazmagazine.com