Kenya will hold its first agriculture census this year. It will be integrated with the National Population and Housing Census, which is conducted every 10 years. It will involve collection of data such as land size, use and tenure, irrigation use, crop area harvested, livestock type and number, labour and other agricultural inputs. This data will be crucial as it will reinforce the role of agriculture in the country’s development. With food security one of the government’s priorities as laid out in the Big Four agenda, this data will be vital in determining the next steps to achieve this goal. The last time Housing and Population Census was held in 2009, a livestock component was introduced. Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) recommends an agriculture census every 10 years. In addition FAO has provided guidelines to ensure that data collected is comparable among countries over the years for benchmarking purposes. The United States holds its agriculture census every five years. The census will provide an opportunity for the government to evaluate the effectiveness of some of its agricultural programmes and to diagnose current problems. This will ensure that future programmes and policies are evidence-based and directed to the right areas. With more than 70 per cent of Kenya’s food coming from small-scale farmers, the data from the agriculture census will be important in understanding the growers’ challenges. More than 65 per cent of rural farmers are women who do not own the land they till. The data collected could be key in analysing how our current land tenure system is affecting key populations such as youth and women involvement in agriculture and possible remedies. To international organisations promoting farming, this data will be useful in directing their efforts to the areas most in need and monitoring the progress of the global sustainable development goals (SDGs). The private sector is also a major consumer of agriculture census data as investors. The information aids investors in making commercial decisions such as location of processing factories due to proximity of raw materials and availability of labour and skills. For instance a fruit processing plant investor might prefer Thika due to proximity to fruit growing regions of Ukambani and Central and availability of labour while a tractor dealer would prefer Eldoret to tap into large-scale farmers in the region. Due to the numerous data points to be collected and their complexity, government agencies led by the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics need to recruit and train competent enumerators to avoid challenges encountered in 2009. Founder, Agriculture First Ventures