Governors who have served two terms and are not eligible to contest in 2022 are in the same boat with President Uhuru Kenyatta. There is a likelihood that they will converge if the recent remarks by former Jubilee vice-chairperson David Murathe are true. They might converge in ideas with Uhuru Kenyatta with a view of amending the constitution to allow them to run for a third term. The other group that is serving their first term, Deputy President William Ruto and the aspirants seeking to run in the counties whose governors are serving their second terms will oppose that vehemently. They will see that their ambitions are being curtailed. What we are likely to see is a bruising battle between those two camps. But definitely, the governors whose terms are ending and the president will not have a chance to amend the law for them to be on the ballot. Two events are likely to cause major disruptions; the upcoming census and boundary review. These will rearrange the leaders into their ethnic blocks to fight for resources, more constituencies, and counties. So this whole talk of the handshake and a united nation will collapse immediately every ethnic block retreats to fight for more constituencies and ensure that the population is either ballooned intentionally or is captured the way it is because the allocation of state resources is based on population. What we are also likely to see is what William Ruto has come out to say that it is not the Prime Minister's position to be created. It is that person who loses with the second highest number of votes in an election that becomes the official leader of the opposition. There is a likelihood that we will have 20 or so governors in the presidential ballot or they form a coalition, and with the handshake, they can sneak into power. Most governors, obviously, are not sleeping. They will be on the ballot. So we are likely to see strange people running as presidential candidates. We are likely to see the death of parties that have a national outlook. We are going to have county parties headed by outgoing governors. They will use these parties to negotiate and demand positions in the national government, either a cabinet position or deputy president. The lawyer and political commentator spoke to the Star