Four female MCAs have been suspended for using force in ejecting impeached Speaker Beatrice Elachi from office last September and causing a disturbance. Mary Njambi, Laura Mwende and Nancy Muthami will each serve a 10-day suspension and forfeit all allowances. In addition, Mary Arivitsa will be out for 21 days for causing disorder during assembly proceedings. Elachi has been reinstated by a court but has not been in her office. Powers and Privilege Committee chairman Naftali Mathenge said on Wednesday that the committee investigated thoroughly before recommending suspension. Ten MCAs and Nairobi County Police Commander Robinson Thuku were summoned to testify about the ruckus on September 10 last year. Majority Leader Abdi Guyo told the committee he performed his role as a leader and advised MCAs to leave Elachi alone. Guyo said what transpired in the speaker’s office was not a scuffle but MCAs were seeking an audience with Elachi, which is normal. Minority leader Elias Otieno said the altercation to eject Elachi could have been triggered by a press conference the speaker held in her office. Waithaka MCA Antony Kiragu denied personal differences with Elachi, saying he was just an observer. Mary Njambi commonly called Mapiriri said she only became “hysterical” and complained that Elachi used pepper spray to protect herself. She later had to hide in her bathroom. Both Kiragu and Njambi denied they were drunk. Kiragu said he does not drink alcohol. Njambi said she is a devout Christian. Muthami admitted to have struck the speaker’s office door and shouted because she thought Elachi’s life was under threat from thugs. “I was worried for her welfare, being a friend,” Muthami said. Mwende said she was angry that Elachi could use pepper spray on MCAs. She said she regrets using abusive language against Elachi over her trip to the US. Nairobi County Police Commander Robinson Thuku said Elachi was not physically attacked. County Deputy Speaker John Kamangu said that once misconduct is confirmed, suspension must follow. The member will be declared a stranger and escorted out. Both Aritsa and Mwende supported the motion, and apologised to the house before leaving. Most MCAs supported the suspensions. Kwa Reuben MCA Evans Otiso said the committee was fair and all involved members had a chance to explain and defend themselves. “The house cannot be lenient because if members are not held accountable for their actions, things could get worse in the future,” Kiragu said. 