Striking nurses who will act in breach of the Public Order Act will be dealt with firmly, the National Police Service has said. In a statement issued on Thursday, the service also assured the public that adequate security will be provided around public hospitals throughout the striking period. The statement comes a day after President Uhuru Kenyatta ordered all nurses to report to work by February 15 or face dismissal by the county government and the Health ministry. Uhuru instructed the National Police Service to take stern action against picketers who might harass public servants going to work. "The National Police Service wishes to inform the public that all the concerned commanders have been instructed to ensure that those nurses who wish to resume duty do so undisturbed," NPS tweeted. Last week, the court suspended the nurses' strike for 60 days. This was after the Council of Governors sought an injunction to enable both parties to negotiate. However, on Wednesday, the Kenya National Union of Nurses' secretary general Seth Panyako maintained their strike is still on despite Uhuru's threat to sack and arrest those participating. "I have no mandate to respond to the President. If I do I will be overstepping my mandate. I urge our members to remain firm and fight for their rights. If there will be something otherwise we will advise them accordingly," Panyako said. He said more counties will be joining the strike on Monday. CoG chairman Wycliffe Oparanya on Tuesday moved to court to challenge the legitimacy of the strike by the Kenya National Union of Nurses. Nurses in 23 counties went on strike on January 4 demanding the implementation of the 2017 return-to-work formula. So far only six counties have fully implemented the CBA. They are Migori, Machakos, Kwale, Nairobi, Mombasa and Vihiga More:Uhuru orders nurses to report to work by Friday or face dismissal Also Read: Nurses unshaken by Uhuru's arrest, sack orders - Seth Panyako Click here for the latest political news 