Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja has said the appointment of a Deputy Governor in Nairobi is long overdue. Sakaja, who spoke on JK Live on Citizen TV on Tuesday night, said he is disappointed that Governor Mike Sonko is dragging his feet. "The Constitution defines a properly constituted county government comprises a Governor, Deputy Governor, 10 CECs, chief officers, directors and other officials. A person can go to court and say Nairobi county is not legally structured," he said. Sakaja said having a Deputy Governor is not a matter of whether Sonko wants or not, but it is what the Constitution says. "As the Senator, I'm in charge of oversight. I have raised the issue of lack of a Deputy Governor several times in the Senate. I think we need to take the matter to the next level because honestly, there is a way a county needs to be structured," he said. Nairobi has been without a Deputy Governor since Polycarp Igathe resigned in January last year. Under pressure, on May 16 last year Sonko named controversial lawyer Miguna Miguna as deputy. However, MCAs rejected his pick on grounds that Miguna was not a member of Jubilee Party and there was uncertainty over his citizenship. Read: Sonko nominates Miguna as Deputy Governor Also read: I will appoint woman deputy on Friday, do reshuffle - governor On January 10, again Sonko promised to fill the position. The Governor who addressed the media in Mombasa said he has already settled on the person who will replace Igathe. Sonko said the delays in the appointment were caused by consultations between various stakeholders, including his party. The Governor downplayed rumours that the city is in crisis for not having a deputy. "We are very stable without a DG. No crisis whatsoever," he said. In August last year, Sonko requested his supporters on social media to pick a deputy for him among four names he had given out. Among those he suggested for the seat were Agnes Kagure, Bishop Marget Wanjiru, Karen Nyamu and Jane Weru. Sakaja said he was not aware of the reason for the delay in naming a Deputy Governor. However, he commended the county government over the manner in which it handed the nurses strike. Sonko increased nurses' uniform and nursing allowances. He also formed a team to look into issues afflicting the health works and report back in two weeks. Click here for the latest political stories. 