Public Service Vehicle owners have been ordered to upgrade their speed governors to the current standards before March 1. NTSA and Kenya Bureau of Standards on Wednesday said the updated speed governors will see speed data on all PSV's transmitted to NTSA servers amid efforts to reduce road accidents through speeding. In a joint communication, the two entities said implementation of the new speed limiting devices came to effect in 2014 and has since been revised. "The revision of the speed limiter devices standard introduced a requirement which makes it mandatory for all speed limiting devices, to have the capability to transmit speed data to NTSA servers. Implementation of the revised speed limiting device standard KS 2295:2018, takes effect from 1st December 2018. Additionally, Motor Vehicles Owners will be expected to upgrade their speed governors/limiters to the current standard on or before March 1, 2019," read part of a joint statement. Read; NTSA warns against tampering with speed governors and reckless driving According to the statement, in order to get approval to manufacture, import, install or in any way act as a speed limiter supplier, the concerned will be required to purchase a copy of the revised Standard Sh2295, a copy of the implementation guide and obtain a clearance certificate from NTSA. "The manufacturer of the speed limiter shall be required to provide KEBS, CMTE and NTSA, with a Manufacturer’s Authorization as prescribed in the revised standard. The manufacturer shall clearly indicate whether their entity is the manufacturer or intends to act on behalf of a manufacturer," the statement said. NTSA and Kebs said the revised speed governors have been designed in such a way that requires a supplier to meet laboratory tests and certain performance and installation specification requirements. Upon complying with the requirements, a supplier will then make an application for a Standardization Mark permit from KEBS and an application for approval to NTSA/CMTE. Once a speed limiter supplier has met all the requirements, they will be required to submit all the permits and approvals to NTSA for licensing to install speed limiters on vehicles for use on Kenyan roads. NTSA said a continuous field performance analysis shall be carried out on all speed governors installed on vehicles. "The speed governors shall only be sold by the registered suppliers. NTSA shall not license more than one authorized supplier to install models of speed governors bearing the same trademark," it said. Click here for the latest political news