Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has denied reports he proposed President Uhuru Kenyatta should run for a third term. He said he was misquoted by some media houses during his speech in the Koma II meeting for all Kamba leaders on Friday. “Don’t make me look like I don’t understand what I said. I was talking about the hybrid approach that creates the position of prime minister from the party with majority seats in Parliament in a ruling coalition,” Kalonzo said. The Wiper leader who has parted ways with his party chairman Kivutha Kibwana called on Kamba leaders to shun abusive politics and embrace each other. He said he had forgiven the three Ukambani governors who skipped the Koma II meeting. Kalonzo spoke on Saturday at Kiunduani Girls Secondary School in Makueni county during the burial of Francis Mwewa, husband to former nominated MP Grace Mwewa. Kalonzo differed with Deputy President William Ruto that the country had no funds and time for a referendum and the census. He said the two exercises were possible if there will be commitment and hardwork. Kitui governor Charity Ngilu, who attended the burial, urged Kambas to register as voters if they genuinely support the Wiper leader’s presidential bid. The governor said the bargaining power of a presidential seat is dependent on the number of votes in a candidate’s backyard. “I will be in the forefront to ask President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga to give way to Kalonzo to be the President of Kenya if there will be over three million voters in Ukambani,” she said. She lamented that only two million Kambas are registered as voters. Ngilu accused some Kamba leaders for using Kalonzo as a stepping stone into their positions without evaluating the reasons why the former vice president has been unable to climb to the top seat. Ngilu, who recently teamed up with governors Kivutha Kibwana (Makueni) and Alfred Mutua (Machakos) to form People’s Empowerment Movement for the region, said her approach to the issues facing the community was different from those of her colleagues. She said there was need for a united Kamba Nation. “I don’t want to talk like the others, I want to be different. We have to live together and work together as this is the only way to fight poverty,” she said. Ngilu asked the community to ensure everyone is captured in the 2019 population and housing census for the counties to get more funds from the national government.