The National Transport and Safety Authority has permanently revoked the license of the driver who was involved in an accident that claimed eight lives at Chepsir along Kericho-Nakuru Highway as two students lost their lives at Sobea,  along Eldoret-Nakuru fighway on yesterday. NTSA permanently revoked the licence of the trailer’s s driver Abdulle Ali Mohamed on Monday citing negligence on his side. “Following the fatal crash involving a trailer KBHJ/ZF 8069 belonging to multi-Energy Limited, NTSA has permanently revoked the license of the driver Abdulle Ali Mohamed,” read part of the statement. NTSA stated that preliminary investigations into the cause of the crash indicated the driver was descending in the climbing lane towards oncoming traffic without due care causing a head on collision with a PSV matatu belonging to South Rift Sacco. “The revocation was necessitated by the fact that the driver is a danger to all road users and should never be allowed to drive on Kenyan roads,” NTSA Director General Francis Meja said in a statement. NTSA summoned officials of the Green Line Bus Company whose bus was involved in an accident with a trailer killing nine passengers at Kamara area on Sunday morning. “We have summoned officials of the bus company to appear before the authority on Feb 20. The authority shall take an appropriate action after the meeting,” he said. The two accidents happened in a span of four days as two students died on the spot and 10 injured after a PSV matatu rammed into a parked truck at Sobea , 8kilometres to the Salgaa notorious black spot along Eldoret-Nakuru Highway yesterday. The matatu belonging to Western Sacco was heading to Nakuru from Eldoret when the accident happened. Read: NTSA revokes licence of truck driver behind deadly Chepsir accident “The accident has claimed two people and injured 10. It involved Western Sacco Matatu that rammed into a stationery truck from behind. The PSV had several students heading towards Nakuru,” area OCPD Japheth Kioko said. The OCPD said that the matatu was speeding when it rammed a parked truck. “The matatu was seen to be speeding. On reaching Sobea, it rammed into a parked truck causing the death of two and injuring several. Two students died on the spot. It is very unfortunate,” Peter Kamau, an eye witness said. The injured were rushed to Nakuru Level Five hospital. Nakuru residents urged Interior CS Fred Matiang’i to help restore sanity in the deadly Eldoret-Nakuru and Kericho-Nakuru highways. Click here for the latest political stories.