The race to the Kenya Cup title is set to intensify with the six teams chasing four slots for the season-ending play-offs. Six games remain before the playoffs start. League leaders Kabras and KCB are placed first and second on 49 and 44 points respectively and look on course to have locked in a home semi-final. The six teams are separated by 10 points. Nondies are placed third on 33 points after a bonus point 26-18 victory over Strathmore Leos. Quins and Mwamba are joint fourth on 32 points with Homeboyz sixth on 26 points. Impala are seventh on 25 points and Nakuru eighth on 23 points. Coaches interviewed said they expect twists and turns before the playoffs. Nondies’ tactician Willis Foxxy Ojal said they are taking one game at time. “Our target is to reach the playoffs but at the moment, the league is very competitive. We play Blak Blad next and we can’t underestimate them considering they beat Quins last weekend,” added Ojal. Quins’ assistant coach Benjamin Ayimba said there are no easy games left and his side will have to bounce back from their one point loss to Blak Bald when they face Strathmore Leos on Saturday. “The games get tougher as we head to the play-offs. We have to improve our execution in both attack and defence,” added Ayimba. Mwamba coach Kevin Wambua said his side is seeking improvement despite thrashing Mean Machine 51-8. “It’s a very competitive league and we are always seeking ways to get better as the season reaches the climax,” added Wambua. Mwamba make the trip to the Rift Valley to face Nakuru RFC this weekend. Homeboyz tactician Simon Odongo, whose team have had inconsistent season, said transition and injuries have really hampered their season but expressed confidence they will make it to the playoffs. “It’s been a tough season for us with injuries and blooding new players but the team now looks settled and we were very competitive against Kabras last weekend. It bodes well for our match against Impala this weekend,” added Odongo. Impala coach Frank Ndong admitted his side has no margin for error and he is praying that the teams above them slip up to enable them get to the playoffs,” noted Ndong.