Deputy President William Ruto has said the Jubilee party will deploy its best foot forward to teach ODM a lesson in the upcoming Wajir West parliamentary by-election. Ruto said the party will 'stop at nothing' to clinch the seat. "We as Jubilee will leave nothing to chance," Ruto said. The DP was speaking at the Jubilee headquarters in Pangani, Nairobi when he unveiled immediate former MP Ahmed Kolosh as the party's candidate in the mini-polls. Kolosh decamped from Raila Odinga's ODM party after the Supreme Court overturned his election on January 19. ODM has unveiled university don Yusuf Elmi to battle it out with Kolosh in the high-stake by-election expected to renew the rivalry between the two parties. "We lost in Wajir West in 2017 because we did not have a candidate. This time things are different. Now that we have a candidate we are stopping at nothing to capture the seat," the DP declared. Read; Wajir West MP Ahmed Kolosh's victory nullified, Supreme Court orders fresh poll Ruto challenged competitors in the parliamentary race to campaign on the platform of issues. "I encourage our competitors to pull up their socks and let us compete on the platforms of issues and ideas of taking Kenya forward and that is what Kenyans expect at the very least," said Ruto. This is the second time Jubilee is fielding a candidate in a by-election after the 2017 polls. The ruling party fielded Charles Kamuren who went ahead to win the Baringo South by-election last year. "This is a very important by-election for us as Jubilee. In every reason, probability and intent we must win this by-election," Ruto said. He was accompanied by Jubilee secretary general Raphael Tuju and National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale. He urged the people of Wajir West to work hand in hand with Jubilee so as to build the county and bring the much-needed change. Ruto also encouraged competitors to work towards taking Kenya to greater heights. Addressing NEDI stakeholders and partners at his Karen office on Tuesday, Ruto said public participation was no longer a luxury but a necessity as enshrined in the Constitution. Also read: It’s back to the Ballot for Wajir West voters Click here for the latest political news