Registration and acquisition of political parties has gained momentum, especially in Central Kenya. A week after a former PS Irungu Nyakera of Murang'a acquired the DP party, corridors has learnt that a well known philanthropist from the same county with eyes on governorship in 2022 is in the process of registering his own party. Governor Mwangi Wa Iria who is serving his last term in office is also said to have his own. This has sent tongues wagging on whether competition in next polls will be about control of popular parties by candidates. With four years shy off 2022, politicians have already started assembling their politician machines in what is promising to be a gruelling battle as terms of most governors come to an end. ****** Is a trade unionist having some prior information on the direction the Supreme Court will take in the Homa Bay gubernatorial election petition? With political temperatures rising to boiling points in the populous county, Corridors has learnt that a popular unionist from the county has dashed and obtained life party membership in a party that enjoys a strong following. This is seen as his official announcement that he will be on the race with a bang should the apex court order fresh polls. The unionist was last month spotted with a number of supporters at the party’s headquarters when he went to collect his life membership certificate. ****** A top public university administrator, with gubernatorial ambition in a Western Kenya County in 2022, could find herself in a pit if she continues to dig. With multiple cases of irregular procurement, illegal employment issues, conflict of interest, abuse of university medical scheme, fake accounting receipts, false claims on behalf of the Senate, the professor is at war with the institutions internal audit. She would be daring fate if she continues to bury her head in the sand. Or if she continues to destroy bridges she needs to complete her term without an invitation from anti-graft sleuths. ****** What is happening at the Parklands Police Station? Sources whispered to Corridors that one officer who boasts of connection with the big boys within the police service is operating with impunity. To begin with, he is said to be fond of harassing other officers. He openly brags that he can only take orders from a renowned top cop. He is alleged to be colluding with some officers to harass motorist with big cars demanding hefty kickbacks. ****** Click here for
the latest political news