The level of concentration of his players left Hassan Oktay a proud coach as a late strikes from play maker Francis Kahata and striker Jacques Tuyisenge earned Gor Mahia a vital 2-0 win over Algerian side, NA Hussein Dey in the their third Group ‘D’ match in the ongoing Caf Confederation Cup. The match looked like it would end in frustration for K’Ogalo until Kahata let fly with his supposedly weaker right foot to end Dey’s dogged defending and gamesmanship. “I am very happy we kept going until the final moment and got the goal we deserved. We controlled the game from start to finish and like on many other occasions, we could have scored more goals. The Algerians tried a lot of tricks but we kept our focus and got the three points that are very important in what is a tight group,” observed Oktay. Big guns skipper Haron Shakava, Shaffique Batambuze, Ken Muguna and Kahata as well as goalie Boniface Oluoch were all returning after their mid-week rest. The Kenyan champions began the tie in their customary no holds barred style and had a couple of chances in the opening ten minutes with Samuel Onyango volleying his attempt over and Tuyisenge, normally a lethal finisher, shot straight at Meghrab. The best chance though fell to the visitors when Yaya’s exquisite through ball with the outside of his left foot was brought under control by Ghamfi but his lob over Oluoch trickled wide off target. The Hussein Dey number 10 did not last long after that as he was stretchered off midway through the first half after coming off worse in a collision of heads with Samuel Chouter taking his place. Soon after lady luck nearly smiled on K’Ogallo as Meghrab spilled a routine high ball with Muguna reacting quickest but the Algerian shot stopper redeemed himself blocking his goal-bound shot. Hussein Dey were forced into another change 10 minutes before the break as skipper El Orfi limped off with Laribi taking his place. Gor continued to ask questions but were not rewarded for their efforts going into the break. The narrative was similar in the second half as K’Ogalo pursued the elusive opener as their opponents sought to just take the sting out of the game by slowing play down. Batambuze fired a shot that Meghrab pushed away for a fruitless corner. Moments later, Samuel narrowly missed the far post after being released by Philemon Otieno. Tuyisenge, who was his usual busy self, could have put Gor ahead but somehow failed to hit the target when picked out by Batambuze. Nicholas Kipkirui, who got the nod for a rare start was replaced by Francis Manoah in the final quarter but it was Kahata who would come up trumps firing home after Hussein Dey failed to clear well a cross in the box six minutes to the end. The Algerians day got worse when Harrag was sent off for a second bookable offence before Tuyisenge killed off the game with the second goal as Gor kept their one hundred percent record on home soil. The Kenyans are top of the table with six points with Hussein Dey on four points ahead of Petro Atletico and tournament favourites Zamalek who were due to face off in Cairo last night.   