South African bred colt Sillverstone Air beat a fi eld of six to win the fi rst classic horse racing at the 2019 Britam Kenya Guineas held yesterday at the Ngong Race Course, Nairobi. Steered by James Muhindi, Silverstone Air needed only need 1.37.7 minutes to grab the 2019 Britam Kenya Guineas title, beating his closest challenger by nine and a half lengths. “The race was good though the colt(Silverstone Air) started slow and picked up in the last 600m of the race. I had to ask more of him every other 100m for him to pick momentum. I was confident we would win given we were the strongest in the field. However, I expected a better time from him because he is well built and has long strides,” said Muhindi who rides for the Muya Stables but is also contracted by Karari to jockey Silverstone Air. Coming in second was Gallileo Star ridden by Henry Muya while Fast Five jockeyed by Lesley Sercombe, came in third—four and a half lengths adrift. Kidnap, Go Pro, Gold Pot and the Whole Apple followed in that order. Together, (Muhindi and Silverstone Air) have won five consecutive races and still have a lot to do to post extra excellent winning time. “According to the field, we would have done better but I am glad we won. We have to find a good pace setter in his next race,”added the jockey. Muhindi also won the Britam Life Asssurance Handicap,with Forewarned in 1.27.1 minutes over 1,400m. Forewarned beating Fire Fighter (by two and a quarter lengths) to the second place as Busselton crossed the line one and a quarter after the latter in the third position. After winning his second Kenya Guineas (first in 2011 ), Muhindi is targeting the next classic series this month during the Fillies Guineas. “There is no resting. I will be back on the course tomorrow morning for training for the Fillies Guineas,” continued Muhindi. Dr Benson Wairegi, Britam Holdings Group Mmanaging director said: “By off ering support to the event,Britam aims to promote the development of horseracing in Kenya, as well as other sports in the markets we operate in.”