Homa Bay Governor Cyprian Awiti on Friday returned to office and called for concerted efforts among elected leaders to promote development in the county. He in particular extended an olive branch to his political nemesis former Kasipul MP Oyugi Magwanga to ensure they work together for the benefit of the county. Awiti argued that the protracted court battles after the 2017 polls had dragged on for more than one and half years, adding that they should not waste more time. The governor said it was high time Homa Bay residents and leaders came together and chart a way forward focussed on the development agenda. Awiti said he holds no grudge with Magwanga and other political opponents, saying he is ready to work with everyone to make a difference in Homa Bay in the next six months. Read: Peace urged ahead of ruling on Homa Bay governor suit “The court cases which deprived Homa Bay of the needed much development is now behind us. We must henceforth dedicate all our efforts to the realisation of the growth agenda as expected by residents,” Awiti said. Awiti, who was flanked by his deputy Hamilton Orata, addressed the press after he held a cabinet meeting in his Homa Bay town office. He has been out of the county for the last six months due to illness. “People have complained we are slow in development. I want us to calm down the political heat and join hands on this course,” he added. Awiti said his administration is now focused on delivery of services to the residents and highlighted some of the earmarked development projects. They include the construction of the Homa Bay town market, water supply, roads development and improvement on agricultural productivity. Orata said they do not take the Supreme Court verdict that ruled in their favour as their win but a win for all county residents. Read also: Supreme Court upholds Cyprian Awiti's election as Homa Bay governor “Nobody was either defeated or won after the court verdict since we all belong to Homa Bay county,” Orata said. The Supreme Court reinstated Awiti and Orata in office two weeks ago after it overturned the decisions of Appeal and High Courts which had annulled their second term election victory. The victory was challenged by Magwanga. Magwanga accepted the apex court’s verdict but challenged Awiti to focus on fulfilling his pledges on development projects. He said he and his supporters will provide a conducive environment for the county government to undertake development for the locals. Click here for the latest political news