Two suspects in the murder of human rights lawyer Willie Kimani now want the court to review their bail terms before the conclusion of the trial that is at
its last stages. This is even as the prosecution intends to call its last witnesses and close
its case by next week Friday. Fredrick Leliman and Peter Ngungi told the court that they had filed application
for review of bail terms and they pleaded with the court to hear them before
proceeding with the testimony. However, Justice Jessie Lessit and the prosecution both said that they had
not seen the application. The judge then directed them to file and serve the application to all the
parties so the court could identify a date when the application will be heard. Read: Video evidence presented in Willie Kimani murder trial More: Witness in Willie Kimani murder case describes lawyer's struggle for help In the case four APs including Leliman, Stephen Cheburet,
Sylvia Wanjiku and Leonard Maina Mwangi — and police informer Ngugi, have
denied murdering human rights lawyer Kimani, his client Josephat Mwenda and
taxi driver Joseph Muiruri. Kimani’s client had persisted in filing a case against an AP officer for
violent treatment. All the men were in court. The three were kidnapped after
leaving the Mavoko law courts on June 23, 2016. They were tortured. Their
bodies were retrieved on July 1, 2016, from the Athi River, near Donyo Sabuk
police post. Yesterday, Officer Kennedy Mwadime concluded testifying and was cross-examined
by the defence lawyers. He confirmed that the vehicle alleged to be Leliman’s car a KBX 429G was
never captured between June 20 and 25 2016 at the places of interest that the
taxi driver used by Kimani was captured. Lawyer Cliff Ombeta for Leliman also asked him if by his analysis he could
tell who had the said police radio that was captured on 24 and 25. Mwadime said that he could not tell who had the police radio at the time
that it was captured from Mavoko all the way to Juja when they lost a signal. On Monday, he showed the locations where they had captured the police radio
signal on June 24, 2016, saying that there were nine locations from 157 frames. The locations were from Mlolongo police station, Syokimau police post,
Mombasa Road, Eastern Bypass and Juja.Mwadime indicated how the ELTE police
radio moved on that day and the following day. The Huwaei 4G radio that gets
updated periodically shows starts the trajectory at Athi River in Mavoko to
Mombasa Road and later Juja. The court also heard that the said police radio was captured
a day later at Valley View Park Estate in one of the houses. The case resumes this Thursday. More: Court acquits suspects charged alongside Willie Kimani's client Click
here for the latest political news