Commonwealth Games 5,000m champion Hellen Obiri is seeking to venture into uncharted territory with her eyes focused on the first World Cross Country Championships medal. This is after destroying the field in the national women’s 8km race at the Eldoret Sports Club over the weekend. Obiri, who has had a stellar career on track, is an Olympic Games 5,000m silver medalist, Commonwealth Games and world champion. The former world 3,000m indoor champion said her mind is set on a podium finish at the World Cross Country Championships set for March 30 in Aarhus, Denmark. “This is the only medal I don’t have in my cabinet and I would like to work hard and get one for my country and myself. I know it will be difficult now that am coming from track but I will do my best to come home with a medal,” said Obiri. Running for Kenya Defence Forces (KDF), Obiri said she is competing in cross country now that they are off season in track with start of the Diamond League series set for May. She observed that running in cross country events will ensure she stays in top shape. “This cross country is part of my build-up for track events set for May. I have to seek endurance and compete in cross country will give me an upper hand when I begin my track season,” added the 5,000m Diamond League winner. On Saturday, Obiri stunned former Africa cross country bronze medalist Beatrice Mutai from South Rift as well as her KDF counterpart Deborah Samum and National Police Service’s Beatrice Chepkoech. It was a day of surprises as former world under-20 3,000m steeplechase champion Amos Kirui stunned two-time world cross country champion Geoffrey Kamworor to win the men’s 10km race. Kirui, from South Rift, led Central Rift’s Evans Keitany and Rodgers Kwemoi as Richard Kimunyan, also of Central, with Kamworor finishing fifth. In 6km senior women, world under 20 5,000m champion Beatrice Chebet from South Rift won the race ahead of Betty Jepkemboi (Central Rift) and Jackline Rotich (South Rift) while Samuel Chebole won the men’s 8km title. The North Rift runner defeated his South Rift’s Emmanuel Kiprotich to second and Leonard Bett of South Rift. Selected team Senior Women 10km 1. Hellen Obiri 2. Beatrice Mutai 3. Beatrice Chepkoech 4. Deborah Samum 5. Eva Cherono 6. Lilian Kasait Senior Men 10km 1. Amos Kirui 2. Evans Keitany 3. Rodgers Kwemoi 4. Richard Kimunyan 5. Geoffrey Kamworor 6. Rhonex Kipruto 7. Emmanuel Bor (reserve) 8. Paul Tanui (reserve) Mixed Relay 1. Conseslus Kipruto 2. Elijah Manangoi 3. Charles Simatwo 4. Jarinter Mawia 5. Winfred Mbithe 6. Agnes Tirop Junior Women 6km 1. Beatrice Chebet 2. Betty Jepkemboi 3. Jackline Rotich 4. Agnes Mwikali 5. Lydia Jeruto 6. Mercy Chepkorir Junior Men 8km 1. Samuel Chebole 2. Emmanuel Kiprotich 3. Leonard Bett 4. Edwin Koskei 5. Charles Karuri 6. Kibet Kandie