Mombasa Governor Hassan
Joho is under siege from the very people he helped win elections last
August. Among other things, these
former allies, all drawn from ODM, want Joho to work with Deputy President
William Ruto and to support his 2022 presidential bid.   They also want him to join them in their
quest to be in government.  Their
argument is that after decades in the opposition, it is time the Coast joined
the Jubilee government to attract development. Last week, in the
presence of DP Ruto in Kwale, the ODM politicians repeated the message that the
Coast would “never again be in the opposition.”  They also pledged to support Ruto, who, they
said, “will be the next President.”   Further,
the MPs rejected Joho’s presidential bid, terming it “untenable.” To cap it all, they
asked the Mombasa governor to join them in the change crusade, if he is to
remain relevant. But Joho’s supporters
did not take the political talk lying down. 
A furious Ganze MP, Teddy Mwambire, called his protesting colleagues
“traitors.”  In Changamwe, MP Omar Mwinyi
referred theDP’s visits to the Coast, “political campaigns.” At the Kwale event, however,
Ruto dismissed the politicking, repeating that his visits to the Coast were
about development. The ODM revolt began
last March as a protest at the MPs’ exclusion from the Uhuru-Raila
handshake.   Within weeks, it had spread across the Coast
region and included thorny issues such as the support for Ruto in 2022.   Today, the protesting MPs – over a dozen of
them — mostly drawn from ODM, have had the implicit support from the governors
of Kilifi, Taita Taveta, Tana River, and Kwale. ODM WAVE Left unchecked in the
long run, the revolt may reverse the ODM wave that has been in place since the 2007
elections.  Already, the political unity
that had prevailed before March 9 is evaporating.   Old alliances are coming down and new ones
emerging.  Nevertheless, ODM remains the
most popular party and it shall remain so in the foreseeable future, despite the
changing political dynamics.  In fact, none
of the protesting MPs would be willing to relinquish their seat for re-election
on alternative parties. In this sense, Joho is
still politically relevant.  He has been
the driving force behind the ODM wave and the election of some of these
MPs.  We also know that ODM politics at
the Coast is brewed in Mombasa and Joho has been the supervisor.  He still holds this clout. The handshake has a lot
to do with the realignments.  In working
with and supporting Ruto, the revolting MPs are saying they are emulating the
“Baba” Raila initiative in building bridges across the opposition divide.   Yet on the Coast, the handshake has been
about burning bridges.   Former allies
are splitting apart in the name of opposition fatigue and the 2022 elections. WILL JOHO BLINK? Amazingly, Joho, the man
at the centre of this political talk, has remained oblivious to it.   His only
comment since March 9 has been to support Raila and the handshake.  Indeed, when President Uhuru Kenyatta and
Ruto visited Mombasa to launch the Dongo Kundu by-pass project early this month,
Joho was present to welcome them. 
However, he has since refrained from attending Ruto’s subsequent visits
to the region. There is also the prevalent
view that he would prefer to work with Uhuru to Ruto. It should be recalled
that six weeks ago, Joho welcomed to his Mombasa office, Baringo senator Gideon
Moi, Ruto’s political opponent.  Beyond
this, Joho himself wants to vie in 2022, which means he and Ruto are political
rivals. Choices have
consequences.  Joho faces hard choices as
he ponders his future after his second and final term.  What is clear though is that he is not ready
and willing to lose his political grip in Mombasa y and the rest of the Coast
region.  Neither is he ready and willing
to abandon Raila and ODM. He is not only a deputy
leader in the party but also its face at the Coast.  The electoral wave the ODM has enjoyed in
this region is owed to Joho.  He is the leader
of opposition politics at the Coast and to relinquish
this political power to competitors without a fight would be naive. There is no doubt the MPs
revolt and Ruto’s inroads into the Coast are rapidly overshadowing ODM’s  gains and Joho’s own political career.   But there is a hitch.  The rebelling MPs want to achieve political
change too fast, too soon.  Yet change
should be gradual, unless it is violent. The starting point should be to
explain why we should vote Ruto in 2022 and not any other person.   Words alone are not enough, yet this is
exactly what the Roto political talk on the Coast has been about. To reverse the ODM wave, the DP
allies have a well-calculated strategy that is beginning to work.  This is the strategy to drive a wedge between
the populous but poor Mijikenda communities and the wealthy but minority
Arab/Swahili population.  This is why in
part, the DP’s visits have focused on Kilifi, Kwale, as well as Mombasa and
Taita Taveta counties.  Mombasa has about
45 per cent of the Mijikenda that politicians such as Joho have used to win
elections. Nevertheless, the impact of
the Ruto 2022 presidential talk is yet to be felt.  ODM continues to dominate regional politics
and the protesting MPs cannot dare to abandon the party and Raila now.  The fears to lose any by-elections occasioned
by any abandonment of ODM could be real. This is why Joho remains the undeclared
coastal kingpin.  Yes, he may be down,
but he is not out yet.   