MPs want IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati and the remaining commissioners kicked out of office over loss of funds in questionable tenders. A report by the National Assembly Public Accounts Committee details how the poll officials aided the alleged loss and recommends the prosecution of the commissioners and sacked CEO Ezra Chiloba. This, according to the report, should be the first step in dealing decisively with the rot that has become of the electoral agency. The committee blames six commissioners for the loss — Chebukati, Consolata Maina, Margaret Mwachanya, Boya Molu, Abdi Guliye and Paul Kurgat. Only former commissioner Roselyn Akombe is left out. She resigned before the repeat presidential election on October 26, 2017, saying the exercise could not even pass basic credibility test. PAC has been holding hearings with former and current IEBC officials and suppliers for two months. This followed a special report by Auditor General Edward Ouko that identified possible loss of billions in tender games before and during the polls. Read: Citing death threats, Roselyn Akombe quits IEBC Wheeler-dealers PAC tabled its report yesterday. It paints a grim picture of the election. The lawmakers say the polls were marred by interests of a team that turned into speculators and wheeler-dealers, making it even impossible to ascertain the size of cash lost in the tenders. The committee wants DCI chief George Kinoti and the EACC to launch investigations and have charges preferred on the culpable. “The relevant investigative agencies should move with dispatch, pick up from where we’ve left and undertake thorough investigations with a view to prosecuting all individuals found culpable, indiscriminately.” It says that from the analysis of the evidence placed before it, “the true cost of the August 2017 General Election and the repeat October 2017 presidential election may never be known.” “It was all blame game. The picture that emerged was that of an IEBC that was held hostage by incessant battles of supremacy between the chairman and the chief executive officer,” chairman Opiyo Wandayi (Ugunja) said in the report. The report accuses the commissioners of failing to provide oversight, occasioning the loss in highly inflated cost of poll materials. Instead of oversighting the secretariat, they focussed on bidding and pushing for friendly companies to win lucrative tenders, it says. Read: Akombe exposes the rot inside IEBC Call for reforms “It also emerged that the other commissioners demonstrated conflicts of interest in relation to procurement of the KIEMS kits where the commissioners voted in favour of their preferred suppliers.” The legislators found Chebukati to have violated the Leadership Integrity Act by allocating cases to a law firm without prior disclosure that he was its founding member. The team said the continued existence of the commission as “currently constituted is untenable, even for one extra day”. Members proposed that Parliament spearhead reforms to pave the way for its fresh constitution. “The commissioners, the chief executive officer and the directors involved in the unlawful procurement should vacate office immediately upon adoption of this report to allow for the much-needed reforms to be effected to restore public confidence in the Independent Electoral Boundaries Commission,” the report says. “Parliament must provide leadership by developing a clear roadmap to midwife a seamless transition from the current order of management of elections to a totally new order.” Maina, Mwachanya and Kurgat resigned in April last year over what they termed irreconcilable differences with Chebukati. Acting CEO Marjan Hussein, who served as Chiloba’s deputy, former legal services director Praxedes Tororey and ICT director James Muhati have also been indicted. The report found Chiloba guilty of poor planning of procurement processes, withholding crucial information from the commissioners, failing to demand procurement bonds before signing contracts and purchasing Sh127.6 million extra data bundles, which were never used. “For instance, he awarded a contract for BVR IBM server infrastructure maintenance and KIEMS infrastructure security monitoring solutions through direct procurement at a cost of Sh452 million, which was eventually not utilised during the 2017 General Election.” Read: IEBC audit report reveals 2017 procurement flaws - Chebukati Tendering not competitive The former CEO is also accused of inflating costs and creating loopholes exploited to subvert proper functioning of the commission. Marjan, Praxedes and Muhati were found to have misled the IEBC on issues in their departments, occasioning loss of money. Muhati failed to give sound advice on technical specification on procurement of Sh1.8 billion data bundle, thereby occasioning wastage of public resources, it says. The MPs accuse Praxedes, currently a commissioner at the Independent Police Oversight Authority, of failing to provide sound legal advice on direct procurement of election materials and services. Almost all materials and services procured during the electioneering were never subjected to competitive tendering. They were obtained directly from identified suppliers. Marjan, who was the tender committee chair, was equally faulted for misleading Chiloba into signing BVR IMB server infrastructure maintenance and KIEMS infrastructure security monitoring solutions contract against the Public Procurement and Assets Disposal Act, 2015. Click here for the latest political news