Two-time Paralympics T54 marathon gold medallist Australian Kurt Fearnley has called out parents to bring their children with special needs/disabilities out of their houses and into the community. Speaking during the launch of Kurt Fearnley Special Needs Unit at the Ruben Centre, Nairobi yesterday, Fearnley said: “I love what I do. When I am on the (wheel) chair I feel I am perfect and I go very fast. We (people with disability) got a small part to play to make the world a better place.” “We got to change the way the public view people with disabilities. Disability is a normal part of life like any other variation. Disability is not ugly, not a burden, we can show beauty, strength and can change the lives of others. The distinguished Novocastrian was awarded Medal of the Order of Australia (OAM) in 2005 and last month appointed an Officer of the Order of Australia (AO) for distinguished service to people with a disability and for his fundraising achievements for Indigenous athletics by his government. Fearnley praised Sydney Paralympics T11 5,000m gold medalist Henry Wanyoike and termed him a legend of the sport. Fearnley, whose career spanned 20 years acing 1,500m, 5,000m and marathon commended Kenya for producing great athletes in Paralympics disciplines and looks forward to cheering them on after he retired early this year. “I have known Wanyoike over the years, spent time with him and he is very impressive,” said Fearnley The Unit has been operational since mid 2015 when Frank O’Shea founded the Centre, but has grown from just providing physiotherapy and occupational therapy and offers education and two meals a day too. During his time in Kenya, he aims to provide opportunities to promote inclusion through sport and education, to focus on abilities not disabilities. “I am happy and proud to be associated with Ruben Centre. The services at this Centre has extended to also impact these children’s families to see and marvel their child or sibling being able to, and is valued to receive quality education,” added Fearnley, a father of two and High School social science teacher in Newcastle, New South Wales, Australia. Feeling privileged to have successfully through the education system till University, Fearnley says he felt the urge to invest and support the only two things he loves outside his family - education and sports. The athlete who has won 13 Paralympics medals over five Games (20 years) has called out parents to bring their children with special needs/ disabilities out of their houses into the community.