Gor Mahia chief executive officer Omondi Aduda has criticised the omission of four Gor Mahia players in the recently released Harambee Stars 25- man provisional squad for the forthcoming Olympics, Chan and Afcon qualifiers. Coach Sebastien Migne overlooked the quartet of Kenneth Muguna, Nicholas Kipkirui, Lawrence Juma and Boniface Omondi from the squad to the surprise of Aduda who believes the recent displays by the four would have easily guaranteed them a place in the team. Migne retained the trio of right back Philemon Otieno, play-maker Francis Kahata and centre half Joash Onyango to the team which began training on Tuesday but Aduda fiercely queried the omission of the four who have been regular starters at Gor and have been outstanding for the club thus far. Muguna, who doubles up as the 2017 Most Valuable Player, has established himself as a starter at Gor’s midfield since his return while Omondi’s prowess on the wing has seen him dispense experienced winger George “Blackberry” Odhiambo. Since Humprey Mieno’e exit to Ethiopia, Juma has defied all odds to fit in the shoes of the former Kenyan International while Kipkirui who is capped with the National U-23 has been a reliable forward since his arrival from Zoo Kericho. The four, alongside veteran striker Dennis Oliech, were dimmed surplus to requirements by Migne attracting the wrath of the administrator who expressed his displeasure with the preparations of the national team ahead of the Afcon finals. “When you look at the quality of the four players and what they have achieved this season with us, then you lack reasons for their omission in the national team. While we are glad three of our players have been retained, the four were unfairly overlooked.” Aduda also termed the early preparation by the national team as a unwelcome distraction to the smooth running of the already congested league. He also questioned the motive of Stars pitching camp in France weeks to the start of the Africa Cup of Nations. “What is the essence of the early training? It will create unnecessary disruption of the running of the league and how clubs prepare for midweek matches. Why would the coach summon more than 20 local players yet he will end up fielding a squad largely made up of foreign based players?” He added: “Why is the national team camping in France ahead of the Afcon where they will not even secure a worth opponent for the test matches? The team should have a camp in North Africa and at least play a good and worth African opponent. Even if the team would have secured a good opponent in France, their style of play is different to the African style of play. It’s a high time those involved consulted before making some decisions.”