Pioneer athletes Hezekiah Nyamao and David Nyamache, from Kisii County have urged the government to carter for their bills while still alive and not wait for them to die to celebrate them. Nyamao and Nyamache said it will be fair if the government recognised the heroes by giving them financial support and not clearing their hospital and mortuary bills. The two were speaking at the home of Kenya’s pioneer Olympian Nyantika Maiyoro in Kiogoro, who died on Sunday at Christamariane Hospital after a battle with tuberculosis. “We sincerely give our condolences on behalf of other senior athletes to the family of our brother Maiyoro. He will be remembered by all Kenyans for his contribution in the field of athletics,” Nyamao said. “We are urging the government not wait until we die in order to make pledges of clearing hospital and mortuary bills for heroes like Maiyoro,” he added. He consoled Mairoyo’s two widows Teresa Mogute and Gekondo, saying they tried to take care of the deceased. Nyamache called for government’s intervention to recover the deceased land which has allegedly been grabbed by an individual at Borabu settlement scheme in Nyamira County. “The property of senior athletes’ like Maiyoro should be protected. I am urging the government to intervene and recover the deceased’s land which has been grabbed by an individual,” Nyamache said. Nyamao, who brought fame and glory to the country after clinching a gold medal in 4x400m relay in at the 1972 Munich Olympics in Germany, said the government has since forgotten them. In 2012, Ababu Namwamba who was then Minister for Sports, said there were plans to set up a special task force to support former sporting heroes. “I remember Namwamba telling us that the Ministry of Sports had plans to set up a special task force to look into our welfare but we do not know what happened,” Nyamao said. The task force was to ensure all former sporting champions who placed Kenya on the world map in the 1960s and 1970s are honoured. Namwamba blamed the government for ignoring former sports heroes in its programme, saying such people must be remembered and taken care of. Nyamao, a former Kenya Defence Forces officer, said their win was not by accident but out of determination and hard work. In 2015, Kisii County Governor James Ongwae heroes revisited the issue, saying Kenyans who put the country on the world map like Maiyoro needed be honoured. “We must honour our own Mashujaas and in this regard, we have drafted the Kisii County Heroes and Heroines Bill that will help us identify our heroes and how they should be honoured,” Ongwae was quoted as saying then. It is not clear what happened to the Bill. “It is dream of every athlete to win an Olympic gold medal. So we feel disappointed when the government fails to honour us,” said Nyamao.