Parents whose children have disappeared must report to authorities or they will be considered al Shabaab sympathisers if their sons and daughters are linked with terrorism. Northeastern regional commissioner Mohamed Birik yesterday said the government wants to trace missing youths thought to have joined extremist groups. “It is part of the enhanced war on terror. Those who fail to report their missing children will be taken to have a hand in illegal activities,” Birik said. He said they will move from household to household seeking information about youths who have not been seen for a while. The administrator spoke to reporters in his office in Garissa. He displayed seven AK-47 riffles recovered in refugee camps in separate operations last week. “We’ve stepped up efforts to secure the border with Somalia to prevent movement of al Shabab militants into the country,” Birik said. Al Shabaab claimed responsibility for last month’s Dusit hotel complex attack in Nairobi which killed at least 21 people. On Wednesday, two suspects were arrested with foreign passports at the Hagadera refugee camp. They were being interrogated by a multi-agency security team. Birik said Kenya Police Reservists have been recruited and deployed to all villages along the border. He said reservists were deployed to hotspot areas “because they have a better understanding of the terrain and militant hideouts”. “They will help police in securing residents and protecting important government installations including water points,” Birik said. He asked clerics to counter al Shabaab narratives by giving sermons against evil teachings. He said imams and religious leaders should come out and preach against radicalisation by speaking about destruction caused by terrorism and the loss of human lives and property. “It’s reckless to kill innocent people and hide behind religion. Religious leaders have a duty to counter such ill narratives,” he said. Birik said chiefs found to have absconded duty will be dismissed. The chiefs are expected to stay in their jurisdictions and fight terror in their villages. Sufficient personnel have been deployed to guard workers building a security wall along the border. “We’re determined to give terrorists no space to operate within Kenyan borders,” Birik said. Security has also been strengthened along major roads where militants often plant Improvised Explosive Devices.