Nairobi’s heavy-bottom workforce comprising 12,034 employees costs the city government Sh1.1 billion a month. Technical departments are understaffed while non -technical ones are congested. Last Thursday, the Public Accounts Committee directed the head of payroll, Daniel Kibet, to table a report on the accurate number of staff and total wage bill. A subsequent report revealed that in only five months, about 400 workers have left employment through natural attrition. In July 2017, the number of county employees was 12,496. It was down to 12,467 in August, 12,430 in September, 12,412 in October, 12,378 in November, 12,351 in December and 12,034 in January 2019. “I confirm that as at January 31, the county has 12,034 employees who are on a wage bill of Ksh1.1 billion,” acting county secretary Pauline Kahiga said. Kahiga, who is also the Head of Public Service, said all county employees were on health insurance cover by AAR. The PAC sought to know whether the payroll system was on software or operated manually. Kibet hesitantly said the county had an automated backup system. “We are using an automated system but it is backed up. It is an open and close system,” he said. STILL HIRING In spite of previous reports by PriceWaterhouse Coopers and Ernest & Young over a congested workforce, the county has more inspectorate officers, cleaners and casual labourers. And the recruitment of more inspectorate officers is ongoing, it was disclosed. Kahiga defended the executive, saying the county structure must answer to its needs. “We agree that the county is heavy-bottom but it has to match the structure and needs of the current government,” she said. Kilimani MCA Moses Ogeto said the structure in the county has led to inefficient service delivery. In response, Kahiga said the county had resolved to reduce the congested workforce through natural attrition. County Public Service Board chief executive officer Meshack Guto told the committee that the county is also facing the predicament of ageing staff whose performance is wanting. “The county has ageing staff, some of whom are sick, although it may not sound good to say so but that is the position,” Guto said. The watchdog committee chaired by Mabatini Ward representative Wilfred Odalo is currently interrogating the the Auditor General’s report on Nairobi City County for the year 2016- 2017.