Events
immediately succeeding the November 2017 swearing-in of Uhuru Kenyatta for the
second and final term brought to fore significant political factors. These factors
have had far reaching ramifications for the country in general and Deputy
President William Ruto in particular. The political landscape has been shaken
and reorganised in shape and content in ways that have confounded observers. The national
leadership has greatly deviated from the political trajectory as at close of
2017 largely due to change in tune and direction by Uhuru and Raila Odinga. As is expected, there has been resistance to
the changes led by those who hoped to use the status quo to continue with
political hegemony. However, the tide of popular demands and the determination
of the two leaders helped build some unstoppable momentum. This explains why
the antagonists took too long to adjust and fit into the new political
dispensation. Many are staring
at early political oblivion. Many more have rejuvenated their political careers
and are poised to play key roles in the unfolding political landscape.
Determined to deliver and secure a lasting legacy to Kenyans, President
Kenyatta is the main driver in the direction of the country’s political and
economic development. Raila has moved in fast to fill the void left by
erstwhile Uhuru allies, who are sour grapping. He has secured a place at the
high table of government operations to the chagrin of the URP side of Jubilee.
Ruto is the prime victim of all these events and the following examples serve
to illustrate the journey to his current predicament. At the
swearing-in, the president unveiled the Big Four agenda as his development
blueprint. It was not lost to keen observers that Jubilee had earlier launched
a campaign manifesto, which was now being abrogated. Regime apologists
explained the mismatch in terms of the President crystalising and sharpening the
campaign agenda. However, it was clear the President was already crafting his
own agenda for the government. This was his personal vision and starkly
different from the party campaign manifesto. This later became concretised as
the vision for his legacy. Then followed the reconstitution of the Cabinet
shortly thereafter. The fanfare and
duopoly of joint government witnessed during the presentation of the first
Jubilee Cabinet was glaringly missing. Uhuru was deliberately projecting
himself as the single head and leader of the government. There was no immediate
unanimity on the names proposed for Cabinet posts by the other side of the
Jubilee party. This led to some delays in the filling up of some positions. In
the crafting of the Big Four agenda, the President seemed to have fallen back
to the Nusu Mkate government’s Vision 2030. He had played a key role
in its crafting and initial implementation as Deputy Prime Minister and minister
for Finance. Jubilee operatives were caught unawares and those who found
themselves in the new Cabinet had to readjust their straps for takeoff to the
new development frontiers. These were the initial and early signs that Ruto was
being reminded that he was not an equal but Number Two in the government and
national leadership pecking order.  RAILA’S HAND In March 2018,
Raila and Uhuru confounded both friend and foe by reaching out to each other
and burying the hatchet.  The two erstwhile protagonists shook hands without reference to their respective
political hardline advisers and henchmen. It did not go down well with the
duo’s inner circle. However, Uhuru was once again demonstrating
that he is boss and he alone was responsible for the government actions.
It did not help matters that Ruto directly or through allies immediately went
out to disparage the peace initiative. This led to his further self-alienation
from the inner sanctum of government. Uhuru also took up this
opportunity to push to the corner those perceived to be selfish and sabotaging his agenda. In a bid to protect those whom he considered his allies
from being reduced in influence and authority, Ruto found himself with them in
a tight corner. Anew team had to be established to spearhead the implementation
of the Big Four agenda within the framework of the Building Bridges Initiative.
The initiative popularly referred to as the Handshake intended to
bring on board communities and interests hitherto considered anti-Jubilee.
Ruto’s game plan had envisioned consolidating the Kikuyu-Kalenjin alliance with
a sprinkling of sections of Western, Northeastern and Coast communities to win
the 2022 presidential election. The new arrangement that brings into play
Raila and Nasa strongholds threw his strategy into jeopardy. His overt and
covert opposition to BBI only served to expose him as anti-unity and a pro-exclusion national leader. This provided the necessary fodder for those opposed
to his candidacy in 2022. The former Nasa supporters view him as continuing
to entrench the governance of exclusion that has been the hallmark of Jubilee
administration. On the other hand, the TNA-Jubilee supporters view him as
curtailing the efforts of Uhuru to redeem his image as a sectionalist President
and establish a united nation as his legacy. Fighting
Corruption After the handshake, President Kenyatta relaunched the fight against corruption
with renewed vigour. The first casualties of the much-publicised high profile
arrests were culprits perceived to be Ruto allies. They were government
officials holding high-ranking positions if not CEOs in what Kenyans consider
to be lucrative parastatals. Immediately there followed hue and cry from
political leaders of the Rift Valley associated with the Deputy President. They
made loud protestations against what they considered to be targeted and
selective fight against graft. On the other hand, Ruto’s opponents were goading
him to declare his stand publicly on matters corruption. He admitted being
associated with Weston Hotel at a time the establishment was reeling under
negative publicity. The National Land Commission has had to investigate the
controversial transfer of the land from Kenya Civil Aviation Authority to Ruto
and associates. By mid last week the Deputy President has had to reluctantly
acknowledge that the transfer of the property was not above board. However, he
still maintains his innocence over the sale and transfer, claiming that he must
have been duped. His handlers have not managed the counter attack smartly
either. They have engaged in whipping up ethnic passions to ward off efforts to
investigate and arrest perpetrators of graft. This has put them on a collision
path with the justice system which has been revamped and established as a
multi-agency outfit. Opponents have taken advantage of these events to paint
Ruto as ambivalent if not pro corruption. This further exposed a weak flank in
Ruto’s arsenal. The president has emboldened the graft war by reorganising the
government and made Interior CS Fred Matiang'i the Cabinet supervisor. It was left to
Ruto and allies to explain that his powers within Cabinet had not been reduced
and influence eroded. By dint of these events and deliberate acts of his
partner in the presidency, Ruto has been pushed to a tight corner. He is now isolated
and easy target for political emasculation by his opponents. His enemies are
lurking and circling in the air over his head like birds of prey. They have
marked him and will take a shot at him any time he crosses the target line.
However, as a political animal, survival instincts will bring out the fox in
him. If executed prudently, then as sly as the fox he will outmanoeuvre his
opponents and enemies. Time is still on his side.