City Hall is considering private partnerships to raise funds to improve health services. Acting Health executive Charles Kerich on Monday said the money allocated for health is inadequate. The city has a burgeoning population that requires expansion of facilities. Kerich said they will emphasise quality and availability of care. “As much as we get budget allocation, most of the money goes to paying salaries and recurrent bills,” he said at Mbagathi Hospital. In two years, the health docket has received the lion’s share of the budget — an indication the county is keen on a turn-around. In 2018-19, it got Sh6.2 billion, about 23 per cent of the budget. Sh6.3 billon was allocated in 2017-18. “When we decide to go the budget route to get funds, it takes very long. So we want to go actively out and fundraise, get health from partners to to expand these facilities,” Kerich said. Staffing is also a problem because of a shortage of nurses and other medical staff. Nairobi has 1,160 nurses who fall under the Kenya National Union of Nurses. Another 415 are under the Kenya County Government Workers’ Union. “Regardless of the ongoing county workers’ strike, we have two-thirds of our nurses at work. Where the nurses are on strike, services are still being offered regardless of the go-slow,” Kerich said. Can they afford to hire more nurses to bridge the shortfall? The executive said this would be a tall order. Recruitment would be expensive and the county is in dire need of cash to support services, he said. Kerich added, however, that bringing the private sector on board would offer new funding possibilities. Last year, it was reported that mothers shared beds in the maternity wing of Mbagathi Hospital. The city government has a policy that no patient in need of critical care, especially a mother in labour pains, is turned away. “The mothers would rather share a bed temporarily, instead of being sent away without being attended to,” Kerich said. The maternity wards would be expanded in the proposed partnerships. At Mama Lucy Hospital, an NGO seconded medical staff on a three-year contract. According to a deal with City Hall, the county will automatically absorb the workers once their contracts expire. Last year, the Nairobi City County Public Service Board advertised for additional nurses. No hiring has taken place. The terms for some board members have expired. “We’re doing an audit to determine the gaps. But because the board lacks a quorum, the process will be completed in April once we have a full board,” Kerich said. Despite the shortages, he said the city will do everything possible to ensure better services.