Kenyan champions Gor Mahia will draw inspiration from the availability of the trio of Dennis Oliech, Nicholas Kipkirui and Geoffrey Ochieng when they begin their CAF Confederations Cup group stages matches tomorrow against Zamalek of Egypt at Moi Stadium, Kasarani. Gor are placed in Pool ‘D’ alongside Petro Atletico of Angola, Nasr Hussein Dey of Algeria and the Eygptian giants who checked in yesterday in readiness for the first group stage match slated to kickoff at 4:00pm Hassan Oktay charges will be buoyed by the presence of the three who were not registered for the previous rounds. They, however, got their way into the current list following a brief registration window opened by CAF shortly after the playoff matches two weeks ago. Gor narrowly missed the quarter finals of the tournament last year after finishing third in their group and they will be out to rectify their costly errors among them, their failure to capitalise on the home advantage, having dropped points against Rayon Sports and USM Alger. K’ogalo were a point away from making it to the last eight with two matches to go but lost to Rayon and Alger hence crushed out of the prestigious tournament to the disappointment of their fans. Lack of cutting edge in the final third was cited as the major undoing last season and in the previous rounds of the ongoing season. The availability of Oliech and Kipkirui for selection is set to provide options as the club initially relied on Rwandan Jacques Tuyisenge for goals. Ochieng, on the other hand, is set to provide options in the defence especially on his preferred left back role, where the club has been relying on Shafik Batambuze. Zamalek have five continental titles to their name, having won three Champions League titles, Super Cup and a Cup Winners’ Cup and will be looking to end their 16-year continental trophy drought when they seek to down Gor. The current Egyptian league leaders last featured in the group stages in 2015. The match will be officiated by Celso Armindo Alvacao from Mozambique and will be assisted by his compatriots Arsenio Chadreque (first assistant referee), Zacarias Horacio Baloi (second assistant referee) and Zefanias Chijamela (fourth official). Mamoun Bushara Nasir (Sudan) has been appointed match commissioner while Helly Zafinimanga (Madagascar) will be the general coordinator.