Underwriters will be fully equipped to conform to the IFRS 17 global accounting standards set to be introduced in the next two years, the regulator has said. “Insurers are adjusting to the IFRS 9 accounting standards, with most now using the risk-based supervision regime to disburse policies,” Insurance Regulatory Authority CEO Godfrey Kiptum said. Risk-based supervision looks at the risk exposure of a company and whether it is able to deal with the financial implications as a result of occurrence of that risk. Kiptum said most firms have so far met their capital adequacy ratio and will be ready once the new accounting standards come into play. The rules, set out in the Insurance Act 2015, require general insurance companies to have a minimum capital of Sh600 million, while life insurers are expected to hold a minimum of Sh400 million. The new accounting rules are set to better align insurance firms to disburse policies under the risk-based regime. Under IFRS 17, premium volumes will cease to determine a firm’s capacity. Investment components and cash received will no longer be considered as revenue. The new set of accounting rules will also require underwriters to carry out an experience investigation to determine a client’s risk. This will check how probable a customer is to default on paying outstanding premium. Results from the investigation will then allow the firms to appropriate cash for the foreseeable loss. The Actuarial Society of Kenya says a rise in loss provisions will consequently impact the insurers’ net assets. Kiptum said unlike banks, insurance firms would not be awarded a grace period to raise their capital adequacy ratio. “There will be no grace period. They will have to comply with the law and this will be the law,” he said. Following implementation of IFRS 9 last January, the Central Bank of Kenya gave lenders a five-year waiver by overlooking capital requirement shortfalls brought about by the new accounting rules. This was aimed at buying banks time to bolster their capital by reporting their finances without necessarily including loss provisioning as specified in the IFRS 9 standards. Kiptum said the regulator was also looking to ensure all underwriters were digitised to increase uptake of policies on all levels as this would increase penetration. Currently, Insurance penetration in the country stands at 2.7 per cent of GDP with the regulator aimed at growing this to three per cent by next year.