One hundred firearm holders were cleared yesterday as vetting of civilians with guns began at the Police Pavilion in South C, Nairobi. The exercise will end on March 7 when the committee expects to have vetted all the 7,000 licensed firearms holders in Nairobi. The team will then move to other counties. Firearms Licensing Board chairman Charles Mukindia said the process started without any problems. Most of those scheduled for vetting arrived on time with the required documents. “Those missing documents have been advised accordingly. We want to make the process seamless and as fast as possible,” Mukindia said. The board will announce the dates and locations for vetting in the counties once it is done with Nairobi. “The vetting is mandatory for all holders of firearms certificates. The board will decide on the implications should one fail to meet the deadline,” Mukindi said. Jacob Haji was turned away for not having registered online before presenting himself for vetting. “They have informed me sufficiently on the process. It begins with an online registration,” Haji said. Read: Licensed gun holders' vetting to begin Monday in Nairobi Another gun holder who withheld his name for security reasons complained about delays. “I arrived at 9am but nothing had happened by 1pm. The committee ought to have set a specific time for each person to avoid wasting time.” Mukindia said the gun holders will proceed to the Directorate of Criminal Investigations for ballistics analysis of their firearms after the vetting. Serving and retired officers from Kenya Defence Forces, National Police Service, Kenya Prisons Service, Kenya Wildlife Service, National Intelligence Service, Kenya Forest Service and other senior government officers in the security sector are exempted. They will, however, be required to fill a form and obtain a unique identification number from the vetting committee before proceeding for ballistic analysis. Every firearm holder will pay Sh2,000 for the analysis and Sh5,000 for a new smart card. The charges will be paid upon collection after 10 working when the vetting ends. The vetting was ordered by Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i last year to digitise records and improve regulation. Click here for the latest political news  