Western MPs are furious with President Uhuru Kenyatta’s directive halting the Sh2.6 billion payout to cane farmers until Parliament approves a supplementary budget. The legislators accused the government of shifting goals as cane farmers suffered. Emmanuel Wangwe (Navakholo), Justus Murunga (Matungu) and Dan Wanyama (Webuye West) yesterday told the press at Parliament Buildings that they were outraged with the President’s decision to keep farmers waiting even after promising in October last year that the payment would be effected in a matter of days. Wangwe said farmers are still stuck with children at home weeks after schools opened for first term waiting for the government to fulfill its pledge. During Mashujaa Day celebrations in Bukhungu stadium in Kakmega last year, the President directed Treasury CS Henry Rotich and Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri to release the Sh2.6 billion owed to cane growers. Last month during the burial of former Youth Fund boss Bruce Odhiambo in Koru, the President said the government is waiting for Parliament to approve a supplementary budget to clear the farmers’ debt. Parliament resume business on February 11 after a two-month recess. The MPs said the Treasury was ready to pay farmers until the supplementary budget issue was introduced. “While in Bukhungu, the President said the farmers will be paid within 30 days. Nothing came forth. In December there was a promise by Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa that farmers would be paid before Christmas. Our farmers are yet to see the payment,” Wangwe said. “We are asking the President to rescind the decision he made in Koru because our people are suffering. Rescind the decision and let Treasury pay our farmers. In fact, the majority of the 17 per cent of pupils who are yet to join school are from Western.” The Webuye West legislator claimed that the situation would have been different had the promise been made to people from elsewhere. “The President is unfair. That would not have been the case if it was elsewhere. Even the list of farmers had reached Treasury. Rotich was ready until he got a directive that everything should wait the supplementary budget,” Wanyama said.