Bungoma Women's Representative Catherine Wambilianga has reiterated her calls for unity among leaders from Western Kenya. Wambilianga said that by the Luhya leaders must unite if they have to win state power and earn the respect of other communities, Bungoma Woman Representative Catherine Wambilianga has said. Speaking in Mt Elgon on Sunday, the MP said the community has been ridiculed because of disunity and selfishness of its leaders. "It's not healthy to see leaders fighting each other every day. We'll remain the laughing stock if we can't unite and fight for the national cake as a team," Wambilianga said. She asked leaders to find better ways of resolving their political differences. The Ford Kenya MP urged residents to turn out for the August census saying the numbers will be key for county allocations. Wambilianga called upon all leaders from Luhya land to respect each other despite their political affiliation saying that leaders are chosen by God. She said that its a high time leaders ought to realize they're better ways of addressing individual differences instead of undressing each other in public. The Ford Kenya party Mp noted that western has been endowed by brilliant and intellectual leaders who must nurture each other politically. "If we current leaders have a vision of taking our people to state house we must speak with one voice so as not to confuse our electorates and be respected by other communities," she said. Wambilianga said that the dream of former the late vice president Michael Wamalwa of taking Luhyas to state house must be fulfilled in 2022. The legislator was speaking on Sunday at Chesikaki in Mt Elgon constituency when she helped Mulatiwa SA Church members raise funds to buy modern music instruments. Over Ksh110,000 was raised. Wambilianga also asked residents to support their leaders and stop discriminating them based on their political stands. The Ford Kenya lawmaker said she was optimistic the proposed merger between the party and Musalia Mudavadi's ANC will unite the community. Wambilianga asked residents to ensure that they fully participate in the August census. Earlier on Mama County had joined mourners at Mang'ana Village in Sitikho Ward where she called on road users to be more vigilant especially during this period most students are returning to schools after mid-term holidays.