Jacob Ngwele, the suspended Nairobi county assembly clerk, and five of his colleagues have been acquitted of corruption charges. Nairobi senior principal magistrate Martha Mutuku said the prosecution had not proved corruption allegations against them. Ngwele, his deputy Adah Awour, Philomena Nzuki (principal accountant), James Kariuki (senior procurement officer), Fredrick Mwangi (senior finance and planning officer) and Raphael Maluki (proprietor of Primara Ventures) were arrested in August last year and charged with corruption. The prosecution accused them ofcolluding and stealing close to Sh1 million through a tender to supply books to the Nairobi County Assembly resource centre. The prosecution said the books were never delivered despite Primara Ventures receiving payments. The six were jointly charged with conspiracy to defraud. It was alleged that between March 6, and July 5, 2017, with intent to defraud the Nairobi assembly, they flouted procedures in the procurement of books for the city resource centre by irregularly paying Sh997,926 to Primara Ventures. Awour, Kavinya, Mwangi and Kariuki were each charged with abuse of office. Kariuki was further charged with unduly instructing Daisy Mueni of procurement to irregularly prepare quotations for four companies including Primara in March 2017 contrary to the guidelines relating to public procurement. Awour, Kavinya, Mwangi and Kariuki were each charged with abuse of office. Mutuku ruled that ousted county assembly speaker Beatrice Elachi, who was the lead witness in the case, was “a spectacularly dishonest and incredible witness.” The defendants’ lead lawyer, Muthomi Thiankolu, said the case was founded on malice, witch-hunt and politics. “The entire case was founded on a draft document. I don’t know how a serious investigator or prosecutor could institute criminal proceedings based on the contents of a draft document,” he said. Ngwele has survived several attempts to be bundled out of City Hall. In November 2014, the Industrial Court reinstated him after he was suspended by MCAs after a delay in them getting their mortgages. Other wrangles were in connection with a tender for the speaker’s residence and claims of corruption. The differences between Elachi and Ngwele escalated into a near fist fight last June. They were separated by their City Hall colleagues. The two were led away from journalists. He had also come under fire for moving money for MCAs car loan fund to the operations account so as to pay salaries and imprests to MCAs and staff. He allegedly transferred Sh45 million.