Artificial
Intelligence has ignited the public’s imagination since the term was first
coined in 1955. Since then, we have been captivated by its promise, wary of its
potential for abuse, and frustrated by its slow development.  But
like so many advanced technologies that were conceived before their time, AI
has come to be widely misunderstood: co-opted by Hollywood, mischaracterised by
the media, portrayed as everything from savior to scourge of humanity. Those
of us engaged in the development of information technologies and their
application in the real world of business and society understand the enormous
potential of intelligent systems – and let’s be clear, AI will impact jobs,
professions, and industries. But
I believe the future AI has very different characteristics from those generally
attributed to the technology, spawning different kinds of scientific, and
societal challenges and opportunities, with different requirements for
governance, policy, and management. One
of AI’s unique characteristics is its ability to learn and reason; as opposed
to conforming to programmed instructions. This
adaptability makes AI an excellent tool for processing the world’s deep data –
data that is unstructured or hasn’t been collected or analysed. The result, AI
enables anyone from start-ups to enterprises to keep pace with the volume,
complexity, and unpredictability of information and systems in the modern
world. For example, in Sub Sahara Africa more than 60 per cent of
farms are powered by people, with less than 20 per cent provided by engines, a model
which is not sustainable as food demand increases due population growth, which
is averaging 11 million per year. To address this, IBM scientists in Kenya are working
with start-up Hello Tractor to develop credit scores for tractor fleet owners
who are unbanked. By applying AI to data sources, including weather and Internet
of Things data, we can forecast the size and value of a harvest before the
first seed is planted. Banks and credit agencies can then use this to develop a
credit score for a loan to buy more tractors and hire more labor. We
are also working on improving the speed of cancer reporting in South Africa,
which currently has a four-year delay. It is difficult and unreasonable to make
future policy decisions with such old data. To address this challenge, we are
applying deep learning and convolutional neural networks to automate the
labelling of different cancer types from pathology reports. However, people need
to feel confident they can trust the technology. Cancer registries hold vital
data sets, kept tightly encrypted, containing demographic information, medical
history, diagnostics and therapy; if a doctor or policy maker uses AI, it will
be critical to explain to the patient or the public how the technology came to
its conclusion. The
silver thread in AI is collaborations and ecosystems. Without Hello Tractor or
the National Cancer Registry in South Africa we would have great technology,
without any data. To address this challenge, we are currently speaking with
institutions about a consortium where intellectual
property is created and shared across all parties involved, and members gain
early access to breakthrough technology. The program would also include
scholars-in-residence, whereby technical staff from member companies would have
the opportunity to work alongside other partner scientists, including those at
IBM. In addition, we would encourage BYoD or “Bring Your Own Data”, where
partners could safely and securely share their data so that partner researchers
can unleash the latest AI algorithms and data analytics techniques on it to
reveal hidden insights. I
believe AI is going to impact jobs, professions, and industries in every part
of the world, and in particular the developing markets. A few weeks ago I was
in Nigeria, and a farmer said that in his lifetime he will have around 55
harvests. If one season goes wrong, it could wipe him out. But if he can be
more productive from year to year, it means more food on the table for his
family. That’s the transformation that AI can provide with more accurate
weather forecasting, access to credit and insurance, and better post-harvest yield
and distribution. And that is why we need to shape AI so that it truly becomes an
industry and society accelerator where all of us are benefactors.  Dr. Solomon Assefa is the Vice President, Emerging Market Solutions and Director,
IBM Research – Africa. This piece is based on a presentation he delivered
during the Africa Business Media Innovators Forum. Follow him on Twitter
@solo_assefa