John Chejang’ sits on a red chair in his photo studio, his hands tightly clasped. His piercing eyes wander, as if unaware of our presence. Chejang’ has taken up photography to supplement his meagre salary as a pre-school teacher to raise his family of five children. He should earn more, but where are the jobs? The 34-year-old South Sudanese refugee has a bachelor’s degree. But he has not yet achieved his dream of a better job. He must survive on the limited possibilities of Kakuma refugee camp. Chejang’ belongs to the ‘lost boys of Sudan’, a name given to displaced children during the second Sudanese civil war ( 1987–2005 ) in which about two million people were killed. He was among the first refugees to arrive in Kakuma 26 years ago as a little boy orphaned by the war. “I stick together with the ‘lost boys’ whom I consider my family. I don’t know if any of my family members is alive,” he says. Chejang’ left home after an attack in a nearby village. “I was about seven years old when one night in 1987 we heard gunshots and screams in a nearby village. We knew the war was getting to our doorstep. We ran away, everyone on their own, not knowing where we were headed,” he recounts. The fleeing group continued their journey on their bloodied feet, occasionally drinking their own urine in the bushes. Many people died on the way. He remembers his childhood friend. “Majak died so fast, like the rest of them. I told him to hold on. I would go get some leaves to cure his diarrhoea but he didn’t.” The group crossed into Ethiopia. It was peaceful there until political turmoil in 1991 forced them out. On July 24, 1992, UNHCR took Chejang’ and other refugees to Kakuma. “It was hot and dry and we often clashed with the locals because of language barrier and other cultural differences. But it was peaceful: no gunshots, no screams, except in our dreams,” he says. After years staying together, Chejang’ says the relationship of refugees with the host community has improved. “My hope is that the UNHCR can review our files and consider resettling us and allow us to work and build our lives like other people,” Chejang says.