A Juja-based taxi driver has been missing since Sunday when he left home to take a client to Kitengela. Victor Sindani’s family has not heard from him since then. His wife, Vivian Wairimu, yesterday said she has had sleepless nights from the day her 26-year-old husband went missing. “It was a client who was not known to him. His (Victor’s) phone went off just minutes after he left home,” Wairimu told the Star at their Gachororo village home. Sindani operated his taxi business at High Point area. He left home at about 9.40am. Wairimu said she started worrying after several text messages failed to go through because her husband’s phone was off. “I started worrying because my husband has never stayed for an entire day with his phone off,” she said. She became suspicious as the client had postponed the Kitengela trip twice in two weeks. “It’s very unusual for him to stay that long without calling. Even when he lost his phone, he called me using someone else’s phone,” Wairimu said. Sindani was declared a missing person on Monday after Wairimu reported the matter at Juja police station. “Police traced his phone signals at Kamulu while the car was traced at a petrol station in Mwiki before the signals went off,” Wairimu said. She suspected that the client might have been after her husband’s vehicle, registration number KCT 570N. Sindani bought the car last month after many years of saving. He was previously a boda boda operator, a business he undertook in 2014. The third year Analytical Chemistry student at Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology, deferred his studies in 2015 due to lack of fees. has a young family His elder brother Collins Masinde said Sindani did not have deals that could have gone sour. He described the taxi driver as a peaceful and straightforward man determined to raise his family and complete his studies. “He has never been caught in such an incident (sour deal) before. He has not been in bad blood with anyone. We appeal for information on his whereabouts because the family is in agony,” Masinde said. Read: Ruiru taxi driver now missing for nine days On Monday, boda boda operators at High Point and Gachororo unsuccessfully searched for him at Kamulu, where his phone was traced. “We called him on Sunday evening after he failed to come back but his phone was off. We’re very worried about him,” colleague Bedan Kaniu said. The colleagues called on the police to hasten investigations and find Sindani. “I’m praying that my husband is found unharmed because we have a young family to raise,” Wairimu said. Juja police boss Simon Thirikwa said he was on leave. His deputy Justin Njeru’s phone was off. Area DCI boss Obed Kiio did not respond to our calls or text messages. Click here for the latest political news