Albert Njogu and Angela Okutoyi made it to the semi-finals of the ongoing tenth Kenya International Junior Tennis Championships after winning their respective quarter finals matches yesterday at Nairobi Club. Njogu’s endurance played a massive role as he edged out Ally Shoker of Egypt 7-5, 6-4 in a match which lasted slightly over two hours while Okutoyi floored Sataha Rakotomanga of France 6-3, 7-6 (4) to proceed to the semis. Njogu’s match was, however, the highlight of the day as he exchanged fierce returns and serves with the Egyptian opponent for hours under the humid conditions experienced in Nairobi to make it to the semis where he is set to face Connor Henry Van Schalwyk of Namibia. Van Schalwyk had a comfortable qualification to the semis as he eliminated Victor Sampres of Madagascar in sets of 6-1, 6-2 in his quarter final match. Njogu expressed confidence that he will replicate similar fighting spirit in the semis against the Namibian. “There is nothing I am going to do differently in the semis. I want to put more effort and ease to the final.Today, I was relaxed and knew where to put the ball. He was tough but I managed to neutralise him.” Okutoyi on the hand survived a second set scare from Rakotomanga to book a place in the semis, where she will rekindle her rivalry with Kenyan-based Burundian Aisha Niyonkuru who recovered from a set down to beat Narindra Ranaivo 1-6, 6-0, 6-2. Okutoyi anticipates a tough match in the semis as she believes Niyonkuru is equally poised to win the title. “I have played Niyonkuru several times in the past and I think the match is going to be tough.Today, the match was tough but I had to give my best in the second set to avoid pushing the match to the third set.” Meanwhile, Okutoyi and Derrick Ominde have been entered for the Africa Junior Under-16 Championships in Tunisia next month. Both earned qualification to the event after sterling performances after winning their age categories during the zonals last year. Kael Shah and Alicia Owegi are awaiting qualification to the event and will do so if they attain higher seeding from this week’s ITF tournament and subsequent events later this month. From Tunisia, Okutoyi will then head to Morocco for the Africa Junior Championships Under-18 Championships in Marakesh. Ominde, who is currently playing in the Kenya International tennis Championship, said he is looking foward to the event in Tunisia and is confident about his chances. “I have very high expectations that I will perform and this is part of my build up ahead of Africa event,” added Ominde. He said performance of Kenyan players has improved tremendously and they are expected to do well. “Our performances have been good and we are at par or better than our African rivals. We have nothing to be afraid of,” added Ominde.