The government has so far purchased 62,000 50kg  bags of maize valued at Sh86.1 million. Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri yesterday said farmers who have been vetted and e supplied maize will start receiving payment by mid next week. The National Cereals and Produce Board opened its depots on January 23 in 14 counties to receive maize from vetted farmers only. The counties include Uasin Gishu, Trans Nzoia, Elgeyo Marakwet, Bungoma, Nandi, Laikipia, West Pokot, Kakamega, Nakuru, Narok, Kericho, Baringo, Nyandarua and Migori. While appearing before the National Assembly Agriculture Committee on Monday, Kiunjuri admitted the vetting process is slow. But he said the ministry will not relax stringent measures to vet farmers. Last year many big traders and unqualified sellers were paid before genuine farmers. Cherangany MP Joshua Kuttuny said farmers are suffering because the vetting process is tedious, slow and requires them to produce titles deeds as proof of the acreage. “Some farmers are young people who do not own land, hence, they have no title deeds, one requirement for vetting,” Kuttuny said. Kiunjuri maintained that the stringent measures are necessary to avoid the mistakes last year. In the case of a father having the title deed, and the son or other relative is growing maize, the e chief and ward representative should identify the farmers, he said. FUNDS APPROVED The CS said that in the future, the NCPB will be able to use the data collected from farmers to buy maize. “We have also agreed that in future farmers will sell maize and buy fertiliser through cooperative societies,” he said. As of February 11, NCPB had purchased 48,000 bags of maize from Eldoret silos, 10,229 from Moi’s Bridge, 2,923 bags in Kitale and 33 bags in Ziwa depot. The Treasury approved Sh5 billion to buy two million 90kg bags of maize at Sh2,500 each, for the 2018 harvest. Out of this, Sh4.02 billion has been authorised for release and the balance of Sh980 million will be sourced from the maize sales of 2017-2018 financial year, Kiunjuri said. Vetting of large-scale farmers started on February 13 and deliveries are expected to start on February 18