A lobby group has built a centre to preserve the ways of life of Northern Kenya communities and promote cultural tourism. Kenya earns a lot of revenue from tourism, but Kivulini Trust says the changing times mean the fortunes could dwindle. The organisation says the younger generation is slowly drifting away from their cultural norms, yet there are significant practices they must not lose. They include folklore, keeping the environment in its natural form, preserving food and conserving water. CEO Hussein Adan yesterday said the Northern communities have been able to survive in the arid region because they place emphasis on practices that inculcate knowledge and skills on conservation. The region is home to pastoralists and experiences frequent droughts. Some cultural practices involve sharing knowledge of how to store water and pasture to avert livestock deaths when dry spells strike. The residents also have a nomadic way of life. They move around to allow grass to replenish. They also use traditional methods to preserve food so they do not starve during dry seasons. Famine is endemic in the region. In recent years, however, the youth have been losing contact with this crucial past. Kivulini Trust wants the trend reversed. Understanding and celebrating the rich cultural and natural heritage plays a crucial role in realising prosperity through sustainable livelihoods, it says. “We’ve established a centre for culture, indigenous knowledge and experiential learning in Gotu, Isiolo county, where we nurture the future custodians of cultural heritage on adaptive sociocultural transformations in northern Kenya,” Adan said. “We develop knowledge banks from where current and future generations can retrieve their ancestral indigenous knowledge, which, if necessary, will help them learn their communities’ history.” The centre aims to reorient and cultivate proud, respectful, culturally grounded and visionary youth, who are aware of their role in promoting the wellbeing of society. Young people must practise positive ethnicity, Adan said. The centre provides education materials with cultural content. “We engage the children through experiential learning and tracking, culture clubs and interschool forums, essay and art competitions on cultural issues, excursions, documentation, filming and video editing, and cultural festivals, among others,” Adan said. Last month, Kivulini Trust and Children Peace Initiative Kenya hosted the first children’s cultural festival at the centre. It brought together participants from northern Kenya counties, including Isiolo, Marsabit, Samburu and Turkana. They were treated to exhibitions, traditional performances, fireside storytelling and inspirational talks. International tourists also attended. Adan said the event was the beginning of a long journey in their bid to revitalise indigenous knowledge for posterity. Abiba Abdi of Gotu Primary School yesterday said she learnt many things during the three-day event. She has been frequenting the centre since. Abiba says she has learnt so many things she has never been taught in school or at home. “With the centre at Gotu, we are the direct beneficiaries. We’re really honoured. During the cultural festival, I learnt desert water survival techniques, traditional meat and milk preservation methods, and yoghurt making, among others,” she said. The pupil says modernity has deprived many agemates of the opportunity to hold true to their cultural edicts. “Nowadays, the culture, which is a mark of Kenyan tourism across the world, is rapidly diminishing because the younger generation has less to showcase,” Abiba said. “I’ve chosen to become a culture ambassador not only for my community, but for the sake of our country’s tourism heritage.” Adan said the knowledge and skills must be passed from one generation to the next so they don’t become extinct. “We are hopeful the second annual event will be able to include more counties from the North. We also hope that more tourists will get satisfaction from these events and documented cultures.”