Anti-graft agency boss Twalib Mbarak yesterday warned sacco managers against graft, saying constant monitoring will be intensified to protect depositors. He warned managers against nepotism and said regular investigations will also be conducted Mbarak spoke at the workshop on the proposed Memorandum of Understanding between the EACC and the State Department for Co-operatives in Nairobi. He said the commission has received complaints of funds mismanagement by some saccos. Mbarak said the monitoring and investigative partnership with co-operatives will help avert damage caused by scandals. Read: Ekeza sacco lost Sh1.5bn in irregular cash transfer The EACC boss demanded that saccos be run professionally to protect funds entrusted to them. “We are not afraid to come for you if there is mismanagement,” Mbarak said. In the last five years, the EACC has received 409 cases related to saccos and were working on 16 that fall under their jurisdiction, he said. The commissioner who has been a sacco member since 1986, said saccos have helped people when banks are not approachable. He narrated his ordeal when he applied for a loan at the bank and was subjected to a HIV test. “For small loans in the banks you had to undergo a lot of processes and the only saviour were saccos,” he said. The ethics boss said nepotism is the major reason most saccos were failing and warned the EACC could charge those found guilty. “If you walk into your saccos, half of the employees are related and if we decide to come after you, we can prefer charges you and arrest you,” he said. “Most saccos fail because they do not employ people based on merit.” His statements come at a time when Ekeza Sacco is on the spot for allegedly diverting more than Sh1 billion belonging to its 78,000 members, mostly peasants. More: Unfreeze my bank accounts, embattled Ekeza boss Gakuyo pleads with Munya Ekeza sacco The government has since suspended its licence over claims it disregarded laws governing saccos. Ekeza had 26 branches and Sh2.56 billion in deposits at the time of suspension. Speaking at the same event, Principal Secretary in the State Department for co-operatives Susan Mochache warned that saccos were not business entities but jointly owned by members. “The bottom line is that the sacco does not belong to a single individual but to all the contributing members,” the Principal secretary said. “Anyone taking money from the co-operatives for personal gain is stealing.” On Ekeza, Mochache said the government will not allow David Kariuki, popularly know as Gakuyo, to dispose of his property to refund depositors. She said the process will be overseen by the state. Read also: Pastor sneaks away as sacco members demand their cash Click here for
the latest political news