Two ODM members have come to the defence of Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho over drug trafficking accusations. Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir and his Shinyalu counterpart Justus Kizito on Tuesday launched an onslaught on politicians linking Joho to the drug trade. They spoke on the sidelines of Public Investments Committee forums at English Point Marina Beach Hotel. The legislators, Nandi Governor Stephen Sang and MPs Kimani Ichungwah of Kikuyu and his Kapsaret counterpart Oscar Sudi have claimed Joho’s name was in a list tabled in Parliament by former Internal Security minister George Saitoti in 2010. The six names were in a US embassy dossier, which then US Ambassador Michael Ranneberger had given to Kenya Anti-Corruption Commission. Joho on Tuesday sued Sang, Ichungwah and Sudi for linking him with trafficking of drugs. The three -DP William Ruto’s allies - are expected to appear in court within 15 days. If they don’t, a full hearing against them will begin. Kizito, who is ODM’s secretary for National Security, said the party has never received any accusations that Joho was a drug dealer. Kizito dismissed the “bickering” as all about power struggle and that those attacking Joho want to edge him out of the 2022 general elections. The MP said Ruto should let Joho run in 2022 as he (Joho) “is as white as cotton on his alleged drug links. Joho is not interested in Ruto’s seat…Leadership is not for one county.” Nassir, a close friend and confidant of the governor, challenged Joho accusers to table ‘tangible evidence.’ He dismissed claims that Joho is wanted by Interpol. Nassir reminded Joho accusers that the governor holds multiple visas and travels around the world, yet he has never been arrested. “When you hear little puppies bark, it’s not them…there have been demonstrations on Weston Hotel. Did anyone speak on it? Let us not deviate from facts,” he said. Nassir said for the first time, a leader from a minority is rising and there is no need to come up with baseless accusations. A few days ago, Joho said at press conference in Nairobi’s Mukuru Kwa Njenga slums that Ruto should face him and stop using his ‘sidekicks’ to attack him.