Kenya has been ranked as one of the countries whose population use social media the least. The figures were derived from a mixture of time spent on computers and mobile usage on devices by HootSuite and We Are Social. From the study, countries who used social media the least were Nigeria, where 16 per cent of the population used social media, followed by Kenya, at 12 per cent. People in Japan spent the least amount of time online – at an average of 3 hours and 45 minutes, followed by China. The Philippines was followed by South Africa, Columbia and Brazil in terms of daily time spent using the internet on computers. The 2019 report reveals 57 per cent of the global population is now connected to the internet, spending an average of 6.5 hours online each day. Leas author Simon Kemp estimated that the 'world's digital community will spend a combined total of more than 1.2bn years using the internet in 2019'. Mr Kemp wrote that the big story in this year's data is the 'accelerating growth in internet users'. 'More than 360 million people came online for the first time in 2018, at an average rate of more than one million new users every day,' he wrote. The country that experienced the biggest jump in internet usage in 2018 was India. The south Asian nation saw the number of internet users jump by almost 100 million last year, nearly doubling the same growth in China, with internet penetration in India now at 41 per cent. Most of the time spent online is done via mobile devices, like smartphones and tablets. Social media was found to be what users spend the majority of their time on, the UAE ranking the highest on that list. Residents of south-east Asia spend more time online than any other region on the planet. Three of the region's countries averaging more than eight hours a day online. The Philippines topped the global list with an average of 10 hours and 2 minutes of screen time every day per person, according to a new report. The country was joined in the top five by Thailand which was found to spend an average of nine hours and eleven minutes online and Indonesia, who tended to clock up eight hours of internet usage. People in the United Kingdom spend almost eight hours online while US citizens spend a combined 8 hours and 31 minutes logged into the web. The figures were derived from a mixture of time spent on computers and mobile usage on devices by HootSuite and We Are Social. Read: Kenyans 4th most active Twitter users in Africa, politics among hot topics Click here for the latest political news