Ward representatives are concerned with Nairobi’s declining revenues and want the matter investigated. Majority leader Abdi Guyo said the house was disturbed by the dwindling internal revenue collection that has hurt development and led to the accumulation of pending bills. “We are going to investigate this matter because it is a concern to us and all Nairobians,” Guyo said in an interview with the Star at City Hall last Friday. He said the County Assembly Budget committee chaired by Kariobangi South MCA Robert Mbatia will investigate the matter. “The committee has proposed to form an ad hoc committee to know why revenue is not being collected. And if it is being collected, why it doesn’t reach the county,” he said. The House Business Committee is expected to approve the proposal next week. The action that to be taken to seal revenue loopholes will depend on the findings of the inquiry. The MCAs’ reactions came barely a week after the county treasury released fiscal strategy paper 2019-2020 that exposed worrying revenue performance. The document shows that City Hall has never achieved its revenue target since the introduction of devolution in 2013. This is despite the county having spent millions of shillings in automating the collections. “Local revenue streams have been underperforming over the years, missing the set targets by a big margin. This results to a shortfall in budget financing, hence frequent cash flow challenges and growth of pending bills,” says the report. In 2017-18, the county collected Sh10.1 billion against a target of Sh17.2 billion. In 2016-17, it only managed to raise 56 per cent of its annual target. It collected Sh10.9 billion against a target of Sh19.5 billion. The year before it collected Sh11.7 billion. It’s target was Sh15.2 billion. The county posted its best ever revenue performance in 2014-15 – Sh11.5 billion was collected representing 85 per cent target. This was the year that the county contracted JamboPay to automate revenue collection. City Hall raked in Sh9.3 billion against a target of Sh12.1 billion in 2013-14. As at December last year, the county had collected only Sh3.7 billion against the annual target of Sh15.2 billion. In absolute figures, the highest internal revenue collected since 2013 was Sh11.7 billion in 2015-16. The trend could worsen activities at City Hall whose employees went on strike last week to demand better salaries. The employees have in the past blamed worker apathy for the fall in revenues, complaining of harassment.