A raid on his M-Pesa shop two years ago left Robert Wanyonyi paralysed, hospitalised and helpless. Wanyonyi, who is paralysed from the waist down, is detained at Kenyatta National Hospital because he cannot pay a Sh4 million bill. He was discharged six months ago. His tribulations began on May 2, 2017, when robbers raided his shop in Pipeline estate at 6.30am. The gangsters stole Sh50,000 and a phone and shot him twice, leaving him for dead. None of the criminals was arrested. The father of two was in coma for a month. When he regained consciousness, he realised that he was at KNH’s private wing with oxygen tubes. Later, he was transferred to the surgery ward, where he spends his time. His body is full of bedsores. “I’ve undergone four surgeries since 2017, with the recent one being bone grafting that was done on my left hip after the sores ate into the bone, leaving me with a dislocated hip,” Wanyonyi told the Star from his hospital bed last Thursday. Hope against hope Ever since he was admitted to the country’s largest referral hospital, Wanyonyi has never known happiness. He depends on relatives and friends. All he does is to pray and hope that he will one day stand on his feet and regain mobility. “I don’t know how the hospital’s entrance looks like. I was brought in unconscious and now I’m unable to walk or sit.” He looks forward to the day he will be able to fend for his family. His prolonged stay in hospital has turned him into a “telephone parent” as his children are not allowed in the ward due to the risk of infections. “My children had dropped out of school because of lack of school fees after my business collapsed. “They had to move back to the village and only returned after a good Samaritan offered to give them scholarships at his private school. My wife washes clothes to raise rent and buy food.” A fundraiser held seven months after he was hospitalised did not help as the treasurer allegedly disappeared with the money contributed. He did not say how much was raised. Fundraiser didn’t help “I have raised Sh43,000 in two phases and I have paid it to the hospital. The cash was raised by friends and through my pay bill number 711982,” he said. Nurses help him to change his sleeping position to avoid more bed sores. They also clean his wounds. Wanyonyi has appealed to well-wishers to help him raise the money required to pay the hospital bill.