Part
2   Editor’s
Note: Star Training Editor Victoria Graham was one of the first Americans in
China after Sino-US relations were re-established 40 years ago on January 1,
1979. She helped re-open the Beijing bureau for The Associated Press, which
closed in 1949, and many years later returned to work on the Shanghai
Daily until 2014. She shares her reflections  There's
a darker side to the awe-inspiring rise of China, with all its power, achievements and dazzling cities. Poverty persists, hovels are built in the
shadow of skyscrapers. Hordes, 287 million
migrant workers, leave the countryside and their families in penury to live in
shabby dormitories and build astonishing cities. Most send money home. There are an estimated 60 million 'left-behind' children. China
is dotted with rolling ghost cities, tributes to overspending starting in 2008. Local governments have little revenue so they grab  peasants' land (sound familiar?),
sometimes it's stolen, sometimes compensated with a pittance. This triggers protests countrywide. They sell to
developers, state banks happily finance projects. Eventually many are absorbed but many blocks will someday  be dynamited or sold for pennies on the dollar. But I arrived in the early 1980s before the building boom. They were times of cataclysmic and unsettling mindset changes from
ruthless egalitarianism. People were uncertain of the future because they
had suffered so much tumult in the Mao years (he died in
1976), and feared it would happen again.They dipped their toes in the waters of capitalism and private property and later plunged in. Even in 2000, a friend wanted to study political science at an Ivy League university but his
parents forbade anything political so he studied economics and film. We
followed on the state Xinhua news agency and state television (reporters were banned)
the trial of the Gang of Four, including Mao’s fourth wife Jiang Qing. She was dragged screaming from the courtroom in 1981 after being convicted of treason
and jailed for life. She taunted the court and refused to repent. We
watched the disappearance of many Mao statues, removed respectfully at night,
not brought down by cheering mobs like the statues of Saddam Hussein, though
dictator Mao inflicted much more and far more enduring damage than Saddam. I bought white ceramic busts of Mao and hung my jewellery
around his neck. We
watched the dismantling of communes when peasants were allowed to own plots and sell produce. We watched the tentative emergence of private enterprise, now virtually unbridled. In
fact, so rapacious had leaders and party officials become that party general
secretary Xi Jinping launched an anti-corruption campaign in 2012 to appease
outraged people who despised the party and conveniently bring down rivals. Since virtually every
high official was corrupt, he could pick and choose and use the law and
ruthless party apparatus to arrest thieves of unimaginable amounts of money and
gold — thus consolidating his power. Lavish gifts and banquets were forbidden for officials, though private people still had bank-teller money counters at weddings to count the mountains of cash. We had hoped that since he had been sent
down to the countryside to learn from peasants and had lived in a cave
for seven years in Shaanxi province that he would have a bigger heart, a more open mind. When I arrived in 1979, the past was
ever-present. Every day, we read the ‘big character posters’ on Democracy Wall.
Writers lamented their suffering during Mao's  Cultural Revolution. That
outpouring of misery and rage was useful to Deng Xiaoping who was making his
comeback as paramount leader and sought to vanquish his critics. But when
there were demands for a more open political
system, the Wall was scrubbed and shut down. To
be a foreign journalist then was bracing. For most foreign readers, it was all
new and exciting. My editors said, “Tell us
all about China. Does everyone ride bicycles? (yes). Do they all wear Mao suits?
(pretty much) What do they eat? (cabbage, dumplings). What are
their houses like? (crowded, run-down, cold, dingy, smokey, cabbages
stored on icy stairs). What do they do for fun? (stroll in the park/) Can they
speak freely? (no). Everything
was riveting. We wrote many ‘ghee whiz’ stories. I got tired of
accompanying trade delegations from dozens of US states, visiting the Great
Wall and handing out balloons to children. We
took a photo of a beautiful young woman leaning rather seductively against an
ancient stone bridge. Her hair was permed, she was wearing slacks, a snug white
sweater and flowered scarf. Worth a million words. We wrote about the first hair salon — women didn’t have
to wear short-cropped hair. The first dating service, the first foreign fashion
show, (Yves Saint Laurent). Today there are Victoria's Secret shows
and Chinese models in the skimpiest clothes drape themselves over Aston
Martins. They were ordered to cover up since men came to see the women not the
car shows. We
found one of the first hangouts for young people relaxing, laughing, drinking
orange soda mixed with beer. Not long before, this would have been
forbidden. Sometimes
we did 'the last'- type stories. The last (maybe) old lady with bound feet who
barely teetered about — she wouldn't have been marriageable without
mutilated feet. We posed the brother of the last emperor  in the
Forbidden City courtyard as swallows swooped in the sunset. It
was hard to find out what was really happening, China watching was a like
Kremlin watching. Whose picture was positioned where? Who was missing? We
talked to intellectuals, diplomats, especially from Eastern Europe with
communist parties. Once
we took a social scientist to dinner at a famous dog-meat restaurant.
It was noisy, the windows were steaming in winter. He asked us to drop him a
few blocks from his apartment so people wouldn't gossip and the
neighbourhood party committee wouldn't rake him over the coals. We
looked for signals. One of them at the Beijing Airport restaurant was a
masterpiece mural of the Dai minority Water Festival in southern
China. The women were nude (in defiance of authorities), one almost life-sized figure seemed to ready to step
out and interact. From time to time, a gauzy white curtain was drawn over the
mural. We correctly took this to mean the puritans and conservatives
were resurgent in power struggles. The mural was a barometer. Then the
curtain was tentatively drawn back. Today
the communist party has 90 million members and the party is the backbone and
decision-maker in every major business and institution. People are pushed to join,
some volunteer to improve their careers. Some join half-heartedly and prefer to
immerse themselves in ancient Chinese culture, preferring Confucianism to communism. Or writing children's stories. One friend bought an exquisite seven-string
zither, the storied instrument of intellectuals. She was ridiculed for spending so much on an old wooden
instrument instead of a flashy car. Another kept missing his party initiation. We
bought a Chinese version of an old Soviet Red Army motorbike — a copy of a BMW
— army green with a sidecar. I usually sat in the sidecar. We'd roar up to
the Great Hall of the People and heads would turn. But
the best part for me was taking motorbike driving lessons from a middle-aged
gentleman (he spoke a little English) early in the mornings. He rode in the sidecar and corrected me. We drove to the outskirts of the
city, watched it come alive as cooking smoke filled the air, women made congee
(porridge) and roosters crowed, ducks and geese waddled about. As
we rode, we talked a little about his family, about the weather, about the
sights around us. It was a genuine and relaxed. Human contact away from prying
eyes. Precious and rare in China in those days for an outsider. The
story continues. China changes, and stays the same. But one thing
is certain: its role in the world has shifted fundamentally from being
isolated, anonymous and irrelevant to being highly visible and hugely
important. I am honoured to have seen the beginning of that process four
decades ago. All-in-all, they were some of the best times a journalist could
hope for.   Victoria Graham is the Training editor at the Star    