A recent circular from the Education PS ordered a reduction in the number of activities in schools’ sports and games calendar for 2019. Other fields of creative expression such as drama, music, dance and elocution have not been spared either. The directive expressly seeks to not only expunge some genres of competition from the calendar but also to reduce the number of participants per class. Apparently, this is geared towards keeping in line with the government’s austerity measures. Ironically, all this is unfolding on the backdrop of the exponential growth of student enrolment in primary and secondary schools. More than 800,000 students have already joined Form 1 in the government campaign to realise 100 per cent transition from primary to high school. The ministry is still keen to push the numbers higher! This is the highest ever recorded transition rate in Kenya. Forthwith, teams participating in rugby 7s and 15s have been reduced. The two will be played in the same period; a departure from the tradition where the former was played in term 1 and the latter in term 2. The reduction will affect teams right from the subcounty to the national levels of competition. Decathlon and heptathlon have been expunged from the secondary schools' games calendar. Athletics, gymnastics and netball for boys have been axed from the primary schools' games. Even sporting activities for the physically challenged, the visually impaired and the hearing impaired have also been reduced. The decision to merge some special needs education sports competitions with those of Kenya Secondary Schools Sports Association is dubious and incomprehensible. Genres in national drama and film as well as music festival have been greatly reduced and the number of participants in each category cut down. An earlier directive from the ministry only serves to exacerbate the problem. It sought to disenfranchise and emasculate county and regional co-curricular committees – mainly comprising of head teachers, teachers and coaches - by shifting the co-ordination of activities and management of funds from them to Ministry of Education officials at the subcounty and county levels. This is the real fly in the ointment. It will only catapult us back to the dark past when we witnessed the highest degree of callousness and disorganisation in the schools co-curricular activities. It’s hard to fathom the ministry’s obsession with austerity measures at the expense of the Kenyan child. It is entirely a question of lopsided prioritisation. Mind you, most of these activities are usually almost entirely sponsored by corporate entities such as Brookside and Safaricom. There is overwhelming empirical evidence that regular physical activity and fine-tuned motor skills benefit cognitive function beginning in infancy and continuing through every stage of our lives. And this informs the centrality of Physical Education (PE) as a discipline in the new competency-based curriculum. There are countless immeasurable benefits that accrue from games, sports and creative expression by students. You only need to attend the national games or music or drama festivals, for instance, to come close to understanding this. The sheer beauty of it! To deny any child a chance to take part in these activities is to snatch their youth away from them. Come on MoE, let kids be kids! Incidentally, even PE lessons are mere cosmetic fixtures on our school timetables due to various challenges ranging from lack of physical resources to inadequate human resource. Clubs and societies too are facing slow but sure death as head teachers cannot support their activities due to budgetary constraints. Too much work without play, they say, makes Jack a dull boy. Let Jack (and Jane?) play his way to his/her great future!