WAS a Raila Odinga (pictured) ally appointed to the board of a not very lucrative parastatal in the recent appointments made by President Uhuru Kenyatta? A source has told Corridors that one of the appointees is very unhappy that while he had lobbied for a parastatal in the Ministry of Energy, he ended up in one that he was also surprised to learn exists. Before he was appointed, the man is said to have been walking around city hotels telling however cared to listen that he was headed for a big appointment and it was only a matter of time “before he bounces back to profitability”. A small bird told Corridors that the man accepted the position reluctantly promising to fight from within until he is transferred to the board of his choice.  AND still on the appointments by President Uhuru Kenyatta, two ODM lawmakers have been left with egg on their faces.They have been in the frontline castigating the Jubilee administration over rampant corruption and nepotism, but during the recent appointments to various state agencies, they pushed for the appointment of their business partner, despite knowing the integrity challenges their candidate faced. The enthusiasm the two politicians from Nyanza have used to make noise on government appointments has evaporated. Is this a case of double standards or just the effects of the handshake at play?  IS former Kasipul-Kabondo MP Oyugi Magwanga is on his way back to the ODM following his failed bid to oust Homa Bay Governor Cyprian Awiti in the contest that ended up in the Supreme Court? The gubernatorial hopeful who contested as an independent is said to have been advised to rejoin the dominant party in the Lake region if he still harbours ambition of winning the seat. Yesterday, the former lawmaker seemed to have taken the advice and was seen attending the last day of Jaramogi Oginga Odinga’s memorial in Kisumu where ODM leader Raila Odinga was present.  JUST who is protecting the proprietor of a company in Kisumu East subcounty which despite court orders, has continued to discharge raw effluent into one of the key rivers draining its waters into Lake Victoria? The waste has left a trail of deaths of livestock and attacks of strange diseases downstream. Residents say they are perplexed, especially with the man, who when confronted, says there is nothing that will happen to him and that he will use his powerful connections in both the county and national governments to thwart any probe. Residents now want President Uhuru Kenyatta to intervene after their pleas to Nema fell on deaf ears.