To understand the context, historically from the colonial era, police was systematically used by the colonial government to eliminating individuals or communities that they felt opposed the establishment. Police are really the epicentre of an effective criminal justice system. So, policing was largely more about securing the regime that existed and anybody who was perceived or was seen to be a threat to the establishment would be easily be eliminated. It is not something that began with independence, it is something that began with the colonial government. It only started escalating as we got independence. In the entire period of the Kenyatta era, there were so many cases of police who were used by the then new government to actually eliminate people who were perceived to be ‘anti-government.’ Therefore the state used police as an instrument to suppress communication and assembly and eliminating individuals who were actually felt to be a threat. Now, that emboldened police. At independence, the colonial government handed over a police system with some semblance of justice that was working. So extrajudicial killing people was used largely to suppress people who were seen being against the state. However, as time went by, the police and the character of killing took a very different dimension. First, it was the watering down of the justice system. The justice system became corrupt. If police are not able to properly investigate cases, they start using extra-legal means to cover up their failures. That is exactly what we have been having but this time it has escalated. Police graduated from what was being used to eliminate anti-government voices to use extra-legal means to even deal with criminals. Because there was no established mechanism to hold the police accountable, they graduated into using extra-legal means to cover up crimes. They have been accused of being in cahoots with criminals. Police have a very detailed record of different criminals across the country. They do profiling and they know they exist. If something happens, police then use extra-judicial means to actually kill them. That has extended to extra-judicial killings of people whose criminal records and crimes police know. The executive director of the International Centre for Policy and Conflict spoke to the Star