What became of the austerity measures proposed by President Uhuru Kenyatta’s administration to save Kenyans from the ever-swelling recurrent expenditure? This is the question that was in the lips of all Kenyans on Tuesday after nearly all Cabinet secretaries trooped to Harambee House in fuel guzzlers. The ministers were attending the first National Development Implementation and Communication Cabinet meeting chaired by Interior CS Fred Matiang'i. The number of chase cars and bodyguards assigned to the state officers left tongues wagging. Ironically, it was Uhuru who abolished the fuel guzzlers as Finance minister. It also raises questions how many officers are assigned for VIP protection and how many are left for the rest of Kenyans. Could City Hall be planning to revert to the manual system of collecting revenue? Well, this is the question some MCAs were overheard asking after the current contractor, JamboPay, notified the county that it will not renew its contract over what it terms negative publicity and frequent attacks by City Hall politicians. The MCAs are afraid the county has not installed an alternative system to replace JamboPay — whose contract expires in April — and could go back to the manual system that was blamed for the loss of millions of shillings. It remains unclear how Governor Mike Sonko will address the challenge, with statistics indicating the county is never meeting its revenue targets. A first time MP from Nyanza is on the run after getting wind that DCI George Kinoti has a bone to chew with him over his involvement in the illegal sugar importation into the country. The lawmaker has been playing hide and seek with the sleuths for weeks now. Amid his flight, he desperately sends emissaries to concerned authorities for a possible out of court settlement. One of the sleuths handling the case whispered to Corridors that it is only a matter of time before the lawmaker is smoked out from his ever-changing hideouts. The detectives say the man has limited options if he doesn’t surrender as soon as possible. An insurance underwriter based in Nairobi could plunge into deep trouble. A client has sued the firm over failure to honour claims following an accident along the Nairobi-Thika Highway. Nobody died during the grisly accident, which happened about six months ago. However, the insurance firm had been dodgy, despite the client providing all the necessary documentation required to have the claims processed. Sadly, during the investigations, one of the sleuths is said to have asked for a kickback to write off the car but when the money was not forthcoming, the investigator is said to have fixed the client. Click here for the latest political news