University lecturers without PhDs will not lose their jobs. Lecturers are required to have at least a doctorate to teach in universities. A directive by the Commission for University Education required all assistant lecturers to acquire a PhD by October to qualify to teach university students. It was meant to improve the quality of education. Education CS Amina Mohamed backed it. The directive had caused panic, as a number of tutors are yet to acquire a doctorate. But the Education ministry and CUE have taken a soft stance. They said the transition for all teaching staff in universities to have PhDs will be gradual. The PhD requirement, according to the October 27, 2014, Report on Harmonised Criteria and Guidelines for Appointment and Promotion of Academic Staff, will also affect private universities. It was to be implemented gradually for five years and was to end this October. “We want to have a critical mass of highly qualified [lecturers] tutoring in our universities. They are employees of universities and instead of laying them off, we are putting them in training programmes,” an Education official told MPs on Thursday. less than 10,000 phd holders Previously, some institutions had assigned master’s graduates to instruct students seeking similar qualification. “Lecturers in universities have made strides since they were directed to acquire PhDs and most of them have applied for the programme, so we foresee a situation where gradually they will conform to the regulation,” Amina said on Friday. The PhD requirement is meant to improve the quality of university education and improve research. The problem is there are far too few PhD lecturers at the moment. Read: CUE to decide if lecturers without PhDs will be demoted There have been concerns over the small circle of professors, who are required to teach PhD holders. An Inter-University Council for East Africa report released last year shows postgraduate students do not access their supervisors easily, especially at the early stages of their doctoral programmes. The few available lecturers are required to supervised far too many students – giving less attention to those at doctoral level. Institutions have been grappling with a shortage of tutors with PhDs as some have retired while others quit. CUE data shows more than half of the 10,350 lecturers do not have PhDs and 4,394 students - or one per cent of the total population of learners - are enrolled for doctoral degrees. The data further shows Kenya has less than 10,000 PhD holders yet it requires at least 1,000 PhDs per year to narrow the student to lecturer ratio. A universities audit report released in February 2017 highlighted delays in student progression, especially at postgraduate level. Also Read: Lecturers to get scholarships to equip them teach Masters and PhD Click here for the latest political news