The IEBC wants the timeframe for presidential election petition extended. The Constitution provides 14 days from the date the final results are declared. But the electoral agency says this is not enough to allow thorough preparation for cases, results publication and allowing due process in court, including a recount if need be. Chairman Wafula Chebukati, in a post-election report, wants constitutional reforms and amendment to the elections laws. He wants this carried out two years before the next election to allow time for proper implementation. The IEBC recommends that national and county elections be held on different dates. It also recommends that the appointment of commissioners be staggered or done at least two years to the general election. Their terms should not end at the same time so there is continuity and institutional memory. “Considering the electoral cycle is five years, ideally, commissioners should be appointed to be in office the entire cycle. Where not possible, they should be in office at least two years to the General Election date,” the report reads. Presently, the agency has only three commissioners — Chebukati, Abdi Guliye and Boya Molu. Vice chairperson Connie Maina and commissioners Paul Kurgat and Margaret Mwachanya resigned last year, while Roselyne Akombe quit in the run-up to the 2017 repeat presidential election. Read: IEBC wants voting to take two days in 2017 voter registration The small membership has technically crippled IEBC’s key functions and decision-making. There is no law in place to guide how the next commissioners will be picked. And to ensure that all eligible Kenyans are registered as voters, the IEBC wants the national citizen registration database integrated with the voters roll. “The commission needs to review its policy on registration and voting among Kenyan citizens residing outside the country to make it economical and available to those who would like to register as voters,” the report says. The commission has urged the National Treasury and the National Assembly to ensure adequate allocation and timely release of funds to support its operations. “Funding for electoral activities should be timely and aligned to the electoral cycle. This calls for sensitisation of Parliament and the National Treasury on the electoral cycle and its relation to election financing,” the agency says. Other recommendations include updated list of credible voter education providers throughout the country, need to have targeted voter registration for particular groups in the community such as the youth, women, pastoralists and slum dwellers. “This would enhance registration of eligible citizens,” the report notes. Read: MP Waluke wants Parliament dissolved, fresh presidential poll The commission has called for development of specific voter education programmes on use of polls technologies. It has further an independent periodical audit of technology. “Adoption of new election technologies should be at least one year before Election Date to facilitate testing, simulation and public education,” it says. Click here for the latest political news  