Greg Snow maintained his classy displays in search of glory as the Muthaiga Golf Club professional remained top on the leaderboard at the Karen Country Club leg of the Safari Tour Golf Series. Snow fired a decent level-par 71 in yesterday’s round to take his gross total to 2-under par 140. Handicap 2 Nyali Golf and Country Club’s top amateur Daniel Nduva, who is also the 2018 Kenya Amateur Match Play champion, displayed scintillating form to return a respectable score of 1-over par 72; which took his total for the tournament to level-par 142 – enough to leave him in second. Snow was all smiles after the round. “It really good to have a feel of the Karen course well in time for the Kenya Open. Play was good today (yesterday) and I’m glad that I am still able to hit the fairway with precision and putt well,” said Snow. On the first nine, Snow impressed to record a total of 32 having played bogey-free, and picking up birdies on the par-3, fourth, the par-5, sixth and the par-4, ninth. It is on the back nine where he struggled with a double-bogey on the par-4, 13th, followed by a bogey on the par-3 14th and another at the par-4, 18th. He however holed a solo birdie on the par-5, 12th for a total of 39. Nduva also played well. On the first nine, the Nyali amateur carded a total of 35 having dropped a shot at the par-4, third before holing a birdie at the par-4, seventh; and having held par on the rest of the holes. On the back nine, he carded a total of 37 having holed a birdie on the par-5, 11th but dropping shots at the par-5, 12th and on the par-4, 15th. Nduva said: “My round was okay although I do not think it was my best. I haven’t been hitting my irons as well as I should, and I feel that has contributed to today’s (yesterday) performance. Going into the final two rounds, I will work on my tee shots with the view of hitting the fairways more for better scores at this tournament.” Mumias pro Dismas Indiza returned an impressive 2-under 69 score to post the lowest score of the day and to end the round tied for third alongside Kenya Air Force Golf Club’s Kevin Mabele with a tournament total score of 1-over par 143. He had finished tied for 16th after the first round of the tournament. A total of 25 players made the cut – which was today set at 10-over par – among them being elite amateurs Edwin Mudanyi (handicap 1) from Vet Lab, Nyali Golf and Country Club’s Daniel Nduva (handicap 2), Vet Lab’s Mike Kisia (handicap 1), Railways Golf Club’s Samuel Njoroge (handicap 2) and South-African-based Matthew Wahome. Eight of the nine Kenyan Pros who have qualified to play at this year’s Magical Kenya Open made the Cut, with Vet Lab’s Nelson Simwa being the exception. The Karen Country Club leg of the Safari Tour series will offer three more players, outside the nine Pros and six amateurs who have already qualified to play at the 2019 Magical Kenya Open Golf Championship, qualification slots into this year’s tournament. Jacob Okello, Justus Madoya, David Odhiambo and Ugandan Philip Kasozi are all in the hunt for the final three slots which are available. Action for Round Three of the Karen Country Club leg of the Safari Tour Golf Series tees off today at 8am. The tournament is sponsored by Magical Kenya and Barclays Bank of Kenya, now Absa.