A Kajiado teacher bit a hyena’s nose to ward off its attack on Valentines Day. John Matipei, 42, who recalled the incident on Monday, said he battled the animal for almost an hour barehanded. The Emukutan Primary School teacher is recovering at the Kajiado County Referral Hospital. He was attacked as he fetched water from a well for his goats at about 5pm. “It was a matter of life and death because I had no weapon,” Matipei, who is the school’s deputy headteacher, said. He said the hyena bit his thigh and swallowed the flesh. “I kicked it but it did not let go. When I turned round, it landed on my chest and faced me directly. That is when I bit its nose,” he said. Matipei then jumped into the water and splashed mud to blind the animal. The beast fled, leaving the teacher with broken hands. Physician Odhiambo Opiyo said the teacher will stay longer in the hospital. Matipei’s wife, Jacqueline, said the beast ruined their plans for Valentine’s Day. “I was looking forward to a great evening with my loving husband. I had prepared to treat him well,” she said. Matipei thanked God for saving his life. On the day of the attack, he returned from school in the evening, but Jacqueline him she had not watered the goats. He then left for the well to fetch water. He rarely returns home on Thursdays and often prefers to sleep under a tree in the school because he cannot afford to fuel his motorcycle every day. The family lives near Maili 46 in Kajiado West constituency. The school is 26km away. “The school does not have houses for teachers and I also want to save on transport cost,” he said. Read: Kajiado teacher bites hyena’s nose to save own life In a week, Matipei returns home twice, mainly on Wednesdays and Fridays. But Thursday was that special day and he returned to spend time with his wife. “We are only two teachers, the headteacher and myself. We have 119 pupils in Standard 1 to 6,” he said. With his deputy hospitalised, the headteacher is teaching all the classes, Matipei said. Kajiado executive secretary for Kenya National Union of Teachers, Elly Korinko visited Matipei in hospital and appealed to the Teachers’ Service Commission to send more tutors to the school. Jacqueline said she had on several occasions warned her husband against sleeping under a tree in the school. “We’ve argued severally and asked him to leave the school if the government cannot provide housing,” the mother of four said. Click here for the latest political news