A 58 year old man could not hide his joy when he was handed a full equipped house by President Uhuru Kenyatta after the intended family rejected it. In a hand over ceremony led by Rift Valley Regional Coordinator Mongo Chimwaga, Charles Macharia, the RC said they identified the needy family yo take over the house located in Murunyu area, Bahati Constituency. Macharia a casual labourer who is usually paid less than Sh. 200 a day has six children of whom three are disabled said that that he thought it was a dream when he was approached by a section of Nakuru administrators on Friday. "I do casual jobs to be able feed and raise my kids. However, I do very little because I spend most of th3 hours taking them to and fro school," he said. His wife of 27 years had abandoned the family due to the burden of raising the children with disabilities. "I'm I still dreaming! Someone tell me the truth. I thank God for He is faithful. In have been praying to God to open ways so I can raise my lovely six children with more ease and for sure, He has kept His promise," said the man who was smiling amid sobs of joy. The man who had been housed by a Church because he couldn't pay his rent coudnt stop jumping allover the house. "It is unfortunate that my wife abandoned me last year citing she couldn't raise the kids anymore. I decided to stay behind despite their disabilities because I love them so much. Despite their disabilities, for God knows why, I cannot do without them, not even go far for a day without seeing them because they are God's gift," narrated the man. Wearing a grey suit, brown shirt and red flowered the, the man kept on praising God and thanking Him for blessings as he took the Star team around the house. In his two bedroomed house were brown checked five seater sofa sets, kitchen shopping worth thousands over shillings, five by six beds well spread with duvets and pillows in each bedroom, curtains well fitted to the windows, connected with electricity and water. Outside the house there was a kitchen garden planted with sukumawiki and on the right a toilet and bathroom built behind the house. His children couldn't hide their joy as they were ushered to the new house. The house was meant for the family of Dennis Ngaruiya, currently a form four student who in 2014 presented a poem before President Kenyatta at 3KR barracks in Lanet. Read: Uhuru's 'substandard' house handed to homeless man The president couldn't stop laughing as he recited the poem . Ngaruiya’s mother Damaris Wambuicane to the limelight last week after she declined to take the house saying that it was not up to the standards the President would have wanted them to get. "We had to move to the new house but only to realise it was jot up to substandard#" claimed Wambui. Wambui alleged that some statehouse officials who had been tasked with the construction of the house had shortchanged the family and built them a ‘house not worth to be a gift from the head of state.’ “That is not the gift the President meant for my son and I. It has cracks and looks more of a semi-permanent house. It was occupied before by a disabled person and was only refurbished,” Wambui told the press last week. The family said that the house was poorly constructed as compared to that gifted to Martin Kamotho alias Githeri Man who came to the limelight after he was photographed eating githeri from a plastic paper bag while on a queue on Election Day in 2017. According to residents, the proposed home, the land on which the house sits was subdivided in 2015 and construction started in 2016 hence new contrary to Wambui's allegations. "We were instructed to profile three families from which one would be picked as the new owners. The lucky family is one of a man who has been living with his three disabled children at a local church,” said the RC. Click here for the latest political news