Two Jubilee MPs on Thursday raised fears that their lives are in danger citing their association with Deputy President William Ruto. Kiminini MP Didmus Barasa and Laikipia Woman Representative Catherine Waruguru said they have been receiving threats of various forms ranging from SMS to emails. Speaking during a news conference at Parliament buildings, the legislators asked the DCI to investigate the threats and arrest those behind them. The two claimed they are not taking the threats lightly and had reported to the police. The legislators are among the key leaders in the famed ‘Tanga Tanga’ movement which has been selling Ruto’s bid for the Presidency in 2022. Barasa said he received an email from an anonymous person who warned him that s/he would come for his head and other body parts “if he doesn’t disengage from campaigns for DP Ruto”. He further claimed that two armed persons, of whom one is in court, had threatened him earlier. “On Monday last week, someone attempted to kidnap my son by posing as his caretaker in school. The school informed me of the person who fled before security guards apprehended him,” Barasa said. “I won’t be cowed to abandon my political stand and support for Deputy President William Ruto.” Read: MP Didmus Barasa wants Uhuru to come clear on Raila's role in government The first-time MP said he has written to Speaker Justin Muturi for additional security, saying the situation “will not stop him from working for the hustler nation.” He added that the threats will not stop him from challenging any powers that be, including initiating a probe on drug dealings in the country. For her part, Waruguru blamed criminal elements in her county for her woes. This was after thugs raided her office and stole computers. She lamented that the police in Nanyuki, despite having leads, are yet to arrest a single suspect over the incident. Waruguru accused a senior county official of threatening her verbally. “The official promised to teach me a lesson because of our ideological differences.” She claimed during the presser at Parliament Buildings, that her attacker vowed to eliminate her and any of her staff members who question the official’s character and style of leadership. “We don’t take the accusations lightly, we want the DCI and other state agencies to probe the threats and bring the culprits to book,” she said. The woman rep asked Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i to beef their securities as their families were living in fear further cautioning political leaders to stop using their positions to intimidate other leaders. “Let us meet at the ballot if anyone has differences with me instead of spewing threats. Some of these fellows are losers who want to object any development I initiate in the constituency.” Click here for the latest political news