The Nairobi county government is unable to clear bodas bodas from the CBD due to gaps in the law, cartels and dodgy staff. The ban imposed by Governor Mike Sonko to keep boda boda operators off the CBD is not anchored in law. County chief officer for security and compliance Tito Kilonzi was put on the spot by the assembly’s Justice and Legal Committee that asked why plans to remove boda bodas from the CBD have stalled. “We operate within contours of the law as we await amendments to the Security and Compliance Act where the issue of boda boda operators is captured,” Kilonzi told the committee on Thursday last week. He said boda bodas are hard to control because they are linked to cartels operating around City Hall. “The ban on boda bodas in the CBD is documented and it is not something new. But also I am leading some very difficult [inspectorate] staff used to some funny style of operation,” Kilonzi said. It also emerged that the county’s plan to hire new constables and non-commissioned officers (NCOs) has stalled for several months, awaiting Sonko’s approval. The county’s security chief further said the city Inspectorate department was weighed down with an ageing staff. Nairobi has 1,200 enforcement officers and 721 security officers, most of whom will be exiting through natural attrition. “If something is not done urgently, we may lack the requisite labour to execute our mandate effectively,” Tito said. Last year in May, Tito was authorised by the County Public Service Board to recruit 1, 200 officers in an exercise carried out at Kasarani Stadium. The compliance boss said he oversaw the exercise and the board was to provide him with a list of recruits for training. The training was to take place in December last year but to date he has not seen it. “Something has to be done because the Inspectorate department cannot function effectively without additional officers”, Tito said. City Hall last year collected Sh5,634,100 in fines paid by riders of impounded boda bodas. Director of Operations Peter Mbaya said the ban is still in force and riders who violate the law will be fined. The number of arrested boda boda riders decreased from 800 to 290 by March after the ban wwent into effect in January last year. However arrests have not been deterrents as riders have remained defiant. Some boda boda riders say the ban does not state designated areas.