Kenya Rugby Union are set to appoint Paul Odera as the new Kenya 15’s rugby team coach. The two parties have been locked in series of meetings with the latest one having taken place yesterday. KRU have been in search of a new coach after parting ways with Ian Snook, whose contract expires in April. Snook was hired a year ago with aim of helping the Simbas’ secure a slot in the World Cup. However, this didn’t happen and KRU opted to terminate his services as the search for local coach, ostensibly due to lack of funds. An Alumni of St. Mary’s, Odera is not new in the rugby circles, having coached Kenya Harlequins and Nondies as well as the Kenya U-20 team. Odera has been credited with development of the U-20 team despite lack of resources. KRU are planning to bring on board two more local coaches who will assist him though no names have been released so far. The fate of Charles Ngovi and Dominica Habimana, who have worked under Jerome Paarwater and Snook is still unclear. KRU recruitment team has been following local coaches closely in the Kenya Cup League and it is expected the assistants will be named before the Kenya Cup Play-offs. KRU are also reported to be planning to get a new team manager but this will happen if only the new coach will deem it right. Wangila Simiyu is the current team manager. Odera’s first task will be to guide Kenya in the Elgon Cup if the country doesn’t boycott the tournament as previously announced by the union. The two countries have been at loggerheads owing to the position of the Vice President of Rugby Africa with both nations eyeing the slot. Kenya are scheduled to play at least four Test matches this year. The first match is expected to be played on June 29th against Germany. KRU are also planning Test matches against Portugal, Hong Kong and Romania. Meanwhile, the union has promised to clear Kenya 15’s salaries by the end of this month. KRU held talks with players and briefed them on the current situation as well the team’s technical bench who have also not been paid.