The ambassador of one of the Arab countries in Nairobi is the talk of the town. The man known for his undiplomatic bully and bossy tendencies is slowly turning local employees at the embassy to his slaves. The man engages them in domestic chores outside their job description, reprimands, insults, taunts and demeans them because of their race. He brags no one can touch him as he is well connected at Kenya’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs and that he has money to buy off any complaints. As though that is not enough, his errant ways have extended to GSU officers who protect the embassy. Last week, he hurled unprintable abuse at the officers because they were sitting at one of the shades erected at the gates demanding they are supposed to be walking around and saluting those with light skin visiting the embassy and should always stand to attention anytime he enters or exits from the compound. Now the staff want Foreign Affairs CS Monica Juma to intervene to reclaim their dignity and preserve Kenya’s pride and sovereignty. ***** DID a member of the dreaded ODM disciplinary committee try to fix a Busia nominated MCA in a well-crafted revenge mission after the female MCA trounced his favourite for the nomination slot in 2017? A mole within the Orange party has painted to Corridors how NEC members were furious with the official who had filed trumped up charges to have the party expel the MCA so that he could have his way in the ensuing party’s nomination process. The besieged official according to the high placed moles unsuccessfully pushed for the nomination of her relative to the Busia Assembly during last polls. NEC on January 24 overruled the recommendation to expel the MCA saying there was no evidence to warrant such action. ***** TWO officials in the executive who are also close family members and a number of governors are now focused on acquiring land owned by multinationals and/or colonial-era settlers whose lease have expired. Our mole told Corridors that the team intimidate investors to demand part or the whole land. Some are said to have reached out to NLC with cutting deals with the commission so as the renewal of the leases is done in their favour in return NLC officials will be part of the share. The most affected parts are in Mt Kenya and Rift Valley. Click here for the latest political news