IDEMIA formerly known as OT-Morpho has maintained that Kenya received value for its money by procuring and deploying KIMS kits systems. The officials of the French company while appearing before the National Assembly's Public Accounts Committee on Thursday said they have no doubt that the company dutifully provided a robust system to IEBC. It said this was part of its corporate commitment to empowering citizens to vote in ways that are now possible in a connected environment. The Company's Senior Vice-President Africa for Public Security & Identity activities, Olivier Charlanes, said as the global leader in Augmented Identity, IDEMIA operates from over 180 countries and has a longstanding presence in Africa including Kenya. Charlanes said, "Since 2008, IDEMIA has provided the Kenyan Police with a criminal Automated Palm and Fingerprints Identification System (APFIS) and in 2012, the company delivered a robust biometric voter registration system to the IEBC in the run-up to the general elections in order to support IEBC building a secure and accurate electoral roll". He added, "This system has been maintained ever since. In 2017, the Company provided 45,000 biometric voter authentication kits to 40,000-plus Kenya-wide polling stations enabling them to transmit the 2017 general election results". Read: OT-Morpho 'ready to deliver credible poll', says systems secure The KIEMS system was also used for the October 2017 election re-run. Last year, the government through the ministry of Interior engaged IDEMIA to provide 31,500 mobile biometric voter authentication kits (hardware only) to be used for citizens’ enrollment in the National Integrated Identity Management System (NIIMS) which is a biometric population register of all Kenyan citizens and foreign nationals residing in Kenya. During the Opiyo Wandayi-led committee appearing, IDEMIA officials further reaffirmed the company’s willingness to fully cooperate with Kenyan institutions. Read: Chiloba conspired with OT-Morpho to inflate cost of fresh polls - Mudavadi Also Read: KIEMS kits identified 7.5m voters, OT Morpho tells IEBC Click here for the latest political news