Kakamega will do a head count of all county employees to clean up the payroll and purge ghost workers, Governor Wycliffe Oparanya has said. Oparanya yesterday said the staff audit will ensure the wage bill reflects the correct number of employees against payroll numbers. “A comprehensive cleansing will weed out anomalies and ghosts that sneacked in through unorthodox means,” he said. The county wage bill is 36.9 per cent of total expenditure. The new database will provide critical information on employees, such as age, address, education, experience and skills, length of service and salaries. He announced the audit at the opening of the third session of the county assembly. The governor said other measures will include introduction of a clocking time-in-and-out system and ephasis on hard work. Academic and professional qualifications of each employee will also be confirmed. All measures will be completed next month. Oparanya said his government is carrying out a county connectivity project, cashless revenue collection system and integrated security surveillance system. It is also implementing the e-Government and the Enterprise Project Planning (ERP) projects to imporve revenue collection and services. The connectivity project will connect all county offices and facilities including hospitals and health centers to increase revenue. It will also improve efficiency in service delivery by reducing unnecessary referrals to distant health facilities. The e-citizen self-service portal will enable enable people to apply and pay for services from their offices and homes. The governor said the ERP system will have modules including human resource management, fleet management and revenue collection, It will make decision-making easier. Oparanya said they are designing a management plan to evaluate performance of county public service and implementation of policies. He said county staff, suppliers and rate payers engaged in corruption will be punished. Modern technology such as e-Procurement and cashless revenue collection will reduce corrupt practices. “I ask the Kakamega community to be wary of corrupt practices threatening to undermine the noble objectives of devolution set out in the Constitution,” he said. The governor has been preparing county workers for the purge of ghost workers since last year after it emerged some senior employees had questionable qualifications. Their dubious qualifications put the county’s reputation on the line, the governor said. The governor in 2014 said there were more than 400 ghost workers in the county who were drawing salaries from the public coffers. He said his government stopped salaries of the 415 “health workers” in November and they have not showed up to complain since.