The anti-graft agency has traced Sh21.57 billion stolen since 2013 and knows where it is. The EACC says in its latest report that it intends to recover a total of Sh29.58 billion stolen since 2013. Among the state agencies targeted in the recovery of looted funds are the IEBC, NHIF, KRA, the Ministry of Interior and the Treasury. Others are the National Police Service, counties and the Ministry of Land. “There was abuse of office and procurement irregularities in the purchase of Electronic Voter Identification Devices (EVID) at Sh1.3 billion by the IEBC where the former chief executive officer, deputy chief executive and other officials were charged in court,” according to the report. The investigations start at the time President Uhuru Kenyatta ascended to power in 2013. Despite success in health and infrastructure, among others, large scale corruption has been an anchor holding back Uhuru’s development ship. The agency said Sh7.214 billion, Sh3.860 billion, Sh3.614 billion, Sh4.913 billion and Sh1.916 billion were stolen each year respectively. The EACC report of activities and financial statements for the financial year 2017/18 shows the amount is higher since the anti-graft agency is still investigating 1,510 cases. This will lead to more prosecutions and recovery of the stolen funds. Read: Kiambu muddle: Sh2bn can’t be traced, staff drunk, lazy – EACC The commission said it has preserved Sh1.485 billion stolen in the same period. The funds can’t be withdrawn or transferred. According to the annual report obtained by the Star, EACC has recovered Sh3.653 billion. “Illegally acquired assets valued at approximately Sh352 million were recovered through court proceedings and out-of-court settlements.” The agency has also filed several suits targeting the recovery of Sh3.9 billion stolen in the same period. Already, the EACC has forwarded 675 files to the Office of Director of Public Prosecutions for action. Some 414 cases are pending in court. A total of 130 cases were completed, resulting in 67 convictions, 36 acquittals, and 27 withdrawals. The agency also referred to 625 cases to other agencies. The commission carried out 12 investigations which resulted in averting loss of approximately Sh4.7 billion. “Three major investigations into Anglo-Leasing type security contracts were completed. These cases, which had stalled for 12 years after courts barred the commission from using evidence obtained from other jurisdictions, are now ongoing in court,” EACC said. “The commission filed 26 applications for preservation of assets valued at Sh2.6 billion,” EACC said. The commission highlighted its main challenges as inadequate support on anti-corruption efforts from accounting officers within the institutions marred with graft. Also Read: Missing Sh18bn: EACC probes text books, e-Citizen project Click here for the latest political stories.