Is the first family grooming one of their sons to take over from Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria (pictured) in the 2022 general election? Word on the streets is that President Uhuru Kenyatta's family is no longer in good terms with the vocal legislator who is becoming a sensation in Mt Kenya region. The MP is reported to be one of the leaders from the region angling to succeed Uhuru as the kingpin. Recently, Kuria came out guns blazing accusing the Jubilee administration of sidling Central region in terms of development projects despite voting to man. One of Governor Mike Sonko's nominees for a top executive position declined an offer by the city boss. An insider has intimated to Corridors that the nominee, herself a public figure, has written to the governor rejecting the nomination. The lady, who is currently working in a neighbouring county, has reportedly said that she cannot leave her job for City Hall where her 'future is not guaranteed.' Her decision seemed to have been informed by Sonko's random sackings and suspension of county staff, including members of the executive committee. Is one of the governors in the Rift Valley region trying to elbow out small traders doing business in his county? The governor is using his power to frustrate any supplier of tomatoes, onions, and other vegetables. Two weeks ago, the county boss rounded up lorries ferrying the supplies to the counties. The county inspectorate team smashed the products on grounds they were not fit for consumption and that they had not been approved by the county. Insiders whispered to Corridors that the man has chunks of land which he has put under irrigation and producing the same commodity which he wants to be sold in the county's markets. Is this not a case of conflict of interest and contrary to a free market regime? Contractors at a county in Nyanza who are under the radar of DCI are a worried lot. Why? Some unscrupulous officers from the county used their companies without their authority to award themselves tenders worth billions of shillings and paid themselves without their knowledge. One of the contractors sent away an officer who approached him for help in manufacturing a tender document. The firm was paid Sh10 million for work the contractor did not do and the money never passed through his account. The contractor blatantly refused to buy the idea and is planning to record a statement with the police, throwing the concerned officers into a panic mode. Click here for the latest political news