COTU Secretary General Francis Atwoli has called for a more inclusive government that accomodates election losers. The trade unionist said the presidential system has unfairly excluded some communities from leadership. He was speaking at St. John’s Lugulu ACK church in Butula during a funds drive on Saturday. “Referendum is coming, it will accommodate even election losers. These are some of the solutions we need, to have a peaceful country,” Atwoli said. Mbita MP Millie Odhiambo who also attended said she fully supports the referendum for the sake of a united nation. “I have been in the 10th, 11th and 12th Parliament, but the 10th Parliament proved to be the best since we had a prime minister and resources were used properly and accountably,” Odhiambo said. The Mbita MP said it is important to do away with the “winner-takes-it all” system of government to prevent bitterness amongst Kenyans. Busia Woman Representative Florence Mutua called for radical amendments to prevent the feeling of marginalisation amongst certain communities. Lugari MP Ayub Savula said he will urge his fellow MPs to budget for the referendum in July, in order to create more positions and ensure peace prevails. “If you vote “NO” it means you are even not supposed to be in Kenya in the first place,” he told congregants. On public resources sharing to counties by the Commission on Revenue Allocation, Savula told Western MPs to provide buses to ferry people from the cities to upcountry, to increase the allocation based on the population. “I will provide 300 buses to ferry locals, our Luhya women have given birth to so many children, and they should be counted. I am also a proud husband to two wives,” Savula said. Atwoli last December reacted sharply to comments by DP William Ruto who said the government will not create positions for individuals who ough to retire from politics.He saaid Ruto should “contemplate resigning if he is against the proposed referendum.” In his statement, the Cotu boss was categorical that a review of the 2010 Constitution is a must. “We must do it to address the winner-takes-it -all governance arrangement in the country,” the unionist said. He asked Ruto to borrow a leaf from the late Jaramogi Oginga Odinga who resigned from government in principle after disagreeing with President Jomo Kenyatta.