Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi wants President Kenyatta to sack Cabinet secretaries facing graft allegations. He said on Saturday that Kenyatta must “end too much talk” on his and ODM leader Raila Odinga’s handshake and “be bold enough” to dismiss CSs whose dockets are embroiled in graft, leading to loss of billions of shillings. “There is too much empty talk and explanations on the so-called handshake and yet corruption seems to be on the rise in government. Kenyans want handcuffs for those involved in graft,” Mudavadi said. He said unless Uhuru acts, he risks leaving a legacy of serious graft. “He can only restore confidence in Kenyans if he sends home those who are looting public resources.” The ANC leader was speaking at Musembe village in Lugari constituency during the burial of his former personal assistant Henry Maloba. He was accompanied by MP Ayub Savula, his Sabatia counterpart Alfred Agoi, nominated Senator Naomi Shiyonga, Vihiga Woman Representative Beatrice Adagala and politician Kevin Okwara. “I am asking President Kenyatta to address mega corruption scandals that have plagued his administration by sending home those in charge of the affected ministries,” he said. The ANC leader also challenged the Kenyan and Italian governments to explain the situation of three dams worth Sh90 billion i in Rift Valley that have been mired in graft, and kickbacks involving ministers. The dams include Itare in Nakuru, costing Sh40 billion, the Sh38.5 billion Arror dam and the Sh28 billion Kimwarer dam, both in Elgeyo Marakwet. Treasury CS Henry Rotich is among top-ranking officials who have been questioned by the DCI on allegations of kickbacks during tendering for the projects. Rotich recorded a statement last week on Monday at the Directorate of Criminal Investigations over the Arror multi-purpose dam in Marakwet West constituency and Kimwarer in Keiyo South. Savula heavily critisised Deputy President William Ruto over what he termed “Ruto’s five big lies” on projects the DP had launched in Lugari but whose construction had failed to take off.