Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i has issued a seven-day ultimatum to Narok chiefs and their assistants to look for 2,600 students who have not reported to secondary school. It is sad for the children to remain at home while other students across the country are continuing with their education, he said. Dr Matiang'i made the remarks on Thursday after meeting the administrators at Ololulunga High School in Narok South. The CS later held a public baraza to engage Maasai women and girls in a discussion on Female Genital Mutilation at Ololulunga trading centre. Interior Chief Administrative Secretary Patrick Ntutu, Narok Governor Samuel Tunai, Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet , Narok South MP Korei ole Lemein, his Narok East counterpart Ken Kiloku and Anti-FGM board chairperson Agnes Pareiyo were present. According to the Kenya Demographic Health Survey, Narok has the highest number of teenage pregnancies and young mothers in Kenya at 40 per cent. "Every child must go to school as per President Uhuru Kenyatta's directive on compulsory free education," Matiang'i said. He told the chiefs to arrest men found to have married schoolgirls. "Marrying underage girls is a criminal and punishable offence. Those responsible should face the wrath of the law," he said. He warned chiefs who abet early marriages and FGM that they risk being sacked. "We cannot be talking of implementing the President's directive and 100 per cent transition rate when some chiefs are derailing government policies. That is totally unacceptable," the CS said. "You should work closely with the police, deputy county commissioners and assistant county commissioner to ensure the process is a success,” he said. At the same time, Matiangi warned Birth and Death Civil Registration officers in Narok for failing to provide efficient services to wananchi. He made an impromptu visit to the office and wondered how the officers could go for long lunch breaks while hundreds of residents waited outside the office to be served. Matiang'i accused the officers of serving 200 people only per day. "This is a delaying tactic so as to induce people to part with bribes and that is against the law," he said. Click here for the latest political news 