ODM has told off lawyer Kipchumba Murkomen, saying there exists no mechanism to appeal the decisions of the orange party's National Executive Council. Malindi MP Asha Jumwa and her Msambweni counterpart Suleiman Dori hired the Elgeyo Marakwet Senator to fight their expulsion from the party. The two, in a letter copied to the ODM's National Governing Council, said there was a complete disregard of the constitution of the party in the manner and style the disciplinary committee arrived at the decision to expel them. More on this: Rebel MPs Jumwa, Dori hire Murkomen to fight ODM expulsion But in a letter to Kipchumba on Wednesday, secretary general Edwin Sifuna said ODM will not admit strangers to any of its internal deliberations on the matter. "It is frankly embarrassing for your clients to claim to be champions of the values and aspirations of ODM when they have no basic knowledge of the constitutive document of the party," Sifuna said. Sifuna said Juma and Dori have drifted from the mother ship, adding that the matter remains an internal process between a party and its membership. "We strongly suggest that you and your clients take time to familiarise yourselves with the constitution and rules governing the ODM to save yourselves from such ignorant misapprehensions in future," he said. In the letter to ODM, Murkomen said the two MPs are aware of ODM's position to support government initiatives under the Building Bridges Initiative that arose following the handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition chief Raila Odinga. He said any such association with the government including DP William Ruto was in line with the initiative and an exercise of freedom of association. ODM's National Executive Council last month adopted the disciplinary committee's recommendation to expel the two rebel MPs. The duo was further dewhipped from all parliamentary committees with immediate effect. Read: ODM kicks Jumwa, Dori out of parliamentary committees. Also Read: ODM team wants Aisha Jumwa, Suleiman Dori expelled for supporting Ruto. Click here for the latest political news