Parliament was treated to a rare show on Wednesday after Rarieda MP Otiende Amollo was put to task on his dress code. The debate was ignited Kisumu West MP Olago Aluoch in a point of order. Amollo was dressed in a non-collared shirt, said to be in contravention of the House Standing orders. House rules require that members wear official suits. Olago argued that the legislator was out of order owing to his dress code. Suba South MP John Mbadi asserted that the MP be ruled out of order. "Being smart does not mean properly dressed," he said. The issue of religious attire also arose. "If we are coming here as honourable members, let us do so," Mbadi said. Ainabkoi MP Samuel Chepkonga said it was regrettable that members have defied the rules in their contempt for the House. "When a member is sent out of the house for improper dressing, he should lose all the privileges," Chepkonga said, calling for seriousness in observing the dress code. For his part, Leader of Majority Aden Duale (Garissa Township) argued that MPs must protect the integrity of the house. "We borrow from the House of Commons. We must observe the rule." He joked that nominated MP David Sankok drops his 'green dress' outside the House. "This is your designer clothes, leave them outside," Duale told the lawmaker in his submissions to the house. Nambale lawmaker John Bunyasi said Olago must appreciate that as long as a member is smart, they should be let be. Kimilili MP Chris Wamalwa said: "We have no otherwise but to obey the rules of the house." Mvita's Abdulswamad Nassir asked the speaker to give direction to avert a situation where there is a clash of dress codes. Sankok defended his suit as one sending a message of patriotism. Makali Mulu (Kitui Central ) sought for relief so that the house departs from the traditional dress code. Endebess Robert Pukose caused laughter by asking whether a member who had donned a Muslim gown had trousers. Otiende defended himself on grounds the new constitution has granted freedom of dressing. Speaker Justin Muturi said he'd deliver a ruling after a study of the Hansard to determine what had been decided before. Click here for the latest political news 