The Jubilee administration is committed to changing Kenya’s political path that would see leaders compete on issues, Deputy President William Ruto has said. He said the country is moving away from divisive politics started in 2013 following the merger of more than 10 political parties to form the ruling coalition. “Kenyans had grown tired of tribalism. We had to come up with a national outfit informed by ideas that would transform the country,” the DP said. He spoke on Saturday in Karatina during the commemoration of the late Nderitu Gachagua, the first governor of Nyeri. Ruto was companied by Speaker of the Senate Ken Lusaka, Governors Ferdinand Waititu (Kiambu) and Mutahi Kahiga (Nyeri). Others were MPs Munene Wambugu (Kirinyaga Central), David Njuguna (Olkalou), Kimani Ichungwa (Kikuyu), Nelson Koech (Belgut), Caleb Kositany (Soy), Rigathe Gachagua (Mathira), Rahab Mukami (Woman Rep, Nyeri), Kabinga Wachira (Mwea), Jayne Kihara (Naivasha), Oscar Sudi (Kapseret), Moses Kuria (Gatundu South) and Rehema Jaldesa (Woman Rep, Isiolo). Read: Embrace diversity to foster national unity - Ruto Ruto called on all leaders to continue pushing for unity in the country. “We cannot develop if we are fragmented. We must join hands, bring our ideas on the table and forge a strong force that can take this country forward,” he said. At the same time, the Deputy President urged farmers to embrace modern practices that would make the venture more productive at the least cost possible. He said gone were the days when farming was done as a ritual. “We have secured key markets in Europe and Asia. We will be finalising the agreements for both soon so that coffee farmers can sell their produce there,” he explained. However, Ruto noted that coffee farmers need to add value to their crop so that better returns can be realised. He said the government was already assisting dairy farmers to add value to their produce through the supply of milk cooling plants to county governments. Leaders present asked the government to further its fight against cancer in Kenya, noting that the disease was turning out to be a national disaster. Read: DP Ruto tells leaders to be honest in unity talks Also read; Support Building Bridges Initiative, DP Ruto tells church leaders Click here for the latest political news