New commissioners at one of the independent offices are the talk of the town. Some have put very outrageous demands, including for posh offices with huge screens and state of the art cars that they want to be mounted with private number plates. Surprisingly, the commission budget cannot sustain the demands. The commissioners have rejected cars which were being used by the previous team even though the cars are still in the sound state. What astonishes more is that despite all the demands they have had zero corresponding impact in as far as commission mandate is concerned. Is a business tycoon who was adversely mentioned in the illegal importation of contraband sugar now challenging President Uhuru Kenyatta on how to streamline the ailing sugar sector? Weeks after the President ordered the establishment of the task force on sugar headed by CS Mwangi Kiunjuri and Kakamega governor Wycliffe Oparanya, the tycoon has now established a parallel taskforce to rival the President's team. He has hired vehicles for the parallel team, printed t-shirts and is footing the team's town hall meetings around the Western sugar belt region. His bid is to not only dismiss the President's task force but also to incite farmers against the Oparanya-led team. Corridors wonders the source of tycoon's courage to the extent of facing off with the country's top CEO. A highly-respected managing director of a financial institution has been caught up in an alleged love triangle. It has emerged that the man is romantically involved with the wife of a politician. The banker who works for one of the major financial institutions with government shareholding is claimed to have instigated the transfer of the woman from a branch within Mt Kenya region to the head office. This has not gone down well with the politician and has sent tongues wagging. It’s just a matter of time before the issue blows out publicly. A first time MP in Nyanza known for his nocturnal life in the clubs within Kisumu town is on the spot again for all the wrong reasons. The MP from a popular county is now in a steamy relationship with a widow of a former senior judicial officer who is also a board member in one of the state parastatals. This has, however, put him at loggerheads with a staff at the parastatal where this widow works and seemingly seeing a fellow male board member. The MP and the man are now embroiled in a fight for this widow and hawkeyes have often spotted him at the latter’s home. Click here for the latest political news