The International Centre for Policy and Conflict notes with
great concern the increasing attacks on the independence of the Judiciary by
senior political players. The choreographed and well-coordinated onslaught
accuses the Judiciary of “contradicting the interest of the state”, and “for failing
to ‘play ball’. These attacks are intended to arm-twist and cajole the
courts into playing succession political ball. It is part of the ‘Revisit’
threat. Recognising elected leaders’ freedom of speech, it is improper
to personally attack members of the Judiciary and the institution as a whole.
Such attacks question the dignity of the judge, or imply personal bias as the
basis of a judicial ruling with which politicians and or those in the Executive
do not agree with. This is horrendously unacceptable! Judiciary derives its authority from the People of Kenya. It is
a co-equal branch of government. It is a critical time for all Kenyans to remain vigilant
to protect its independence. We recognise the centrality of judicial
accountability. However, while courts must be accountable, the ICPC believes
they should be accountable to the Constitution and the rule of law [rather]
than to politicians and special interest groups. Judicial independence is not
conferred so judges can do as they please, but so judges can do as they must. Judiciary dis well to publicly publish and publicise the status
of the cases especially those touching on corruption. It must strengthen its
internal ombudsman office to independently monitor, investigate and act on all
judges, magistrates and judicial officers who could be involved in any form of
malpractices. The Executive and Legislature arms are deliberately trying to
delegitimise the independence of the Judiciary, along with the principle of
separation of powers. These attacks are meant to undermine its legitimacy and
independence, and cast serious doubt on its ability to protect constitutional
principles and to uphold human rights and fundamental freedoms. Judges should
decide all matters before them impartially, freely and efficiently on the basis
of facts and in accordance with the law. This is not possible when their very
liberty and security is threatened. Judiciary and judges must remain bastions of constitutionalism
and the rule of law. They must not succumb to political blackmail and threats
to bend the law in favour of rogue Executive and its agents. It is known fact
that the Executive is hell-bent  on capturing and managing the courts by
controlling the Judicial Service Commission and subsequently determine the
appointment of next Chief Justice and  judges of  superior courts as
part of the wider elaborate political succession scheme. Courts exist to provide fresh, breathe life and give blood to
the veins of the Constitution. They cannot interpret the Constitution in a
mechanistic manner. A court must give the Constitution “continuity of life and
expression”. In the absence of such an interpretation, the supreme law would
become stultified and devoid of the inner strength necessary to survive. The 2010
Constitution notes that “the purpose, objectives and principles” must be
promoted and protected and expands the meaning of the law. Executive wants
Judiciary to bend constitutional principles and rights in order for it (the Executive)
cover it own failures. These attacks have intensified under pretext of being a hindrance
to the war on corruption. This is lame hollow political lame accusation.
Judiciary does not investigate and prosecute cases. It adjudicates cases based
on law and evidence provided.  It is sole responsibility of the
investigatory agencies (under the Executive). The Directorate of Public Prosecutions has constitutional
mandate and powers to ensure the investigatory agencies do not conduct shoddy
probes, leading to collapse of cases and acquittal.  Investigatory and
prosecutorial institutions must not be allowed to disregard rule of law and use
judiciary as scapegoat to cover for their incompetence. And since
the Judiciary is
constrained from defending itself publicly and is limited in its ability to
explain its role to the public, Kenyans must directly address these attacks and
defend the the courts, while holding them to account. Kenya’s nascent
constitutional democracy depends on the proper separation of powers, which of course
includes an independent Judiciary. It is incumbent upon all of Kenyans and
their friends to ensure that  the government and its agents remain
true to the Constitution and to the rule of law.