Meru county has the highest number of men diagnosed with cancer, a health official has said. Director of non-communicable diseases Mwangi Kibachio on Monday said most men are diagnosed with oesophagus, prostate and stomach cancers. The Meru Health department is prioritising cancer prevention and treatment, following the rapid rise in cancer patients. “We have commissioned a chemotherapy unit to ensure less people travel out of Meru in search of services,” Mwangi said. The Health ministry has set up chemotherapy units in eight counties, including Meru. Mwangi spoke during World Cancer Day in Meru. At least 1,000 people were screened. In Kenya, 48,000 cancer cases are diagnosed annually. About 33,000 deaths are reported yearly. Of the people diagnosed with cancer, at least 3,000 are from Meru. Mwangi said the main challenge in the fight against cancer is that many people fail to go for screening and early treatment. Less than 15 per cent of women of reproductive age group have gone for screening. Only 10 per cent of women have gone for breast examination. Men rarely go for cancer screening, Mwangi said. Governor Kiraitu Murungi said many families are struggling with the burden of cancer treatment. He said majority of patients are diagnosed at stage four, which makes treatment harder. “Giving priority to prevention and treatment of cancer was one of my campaign promises that I’m fulfilling today. There is a huge resource gap and we are appealling to the Health ministry for more support,”Kiraitu said. The governor said the county previously concentrated on communicable diseases. But following the rapid rise in cancer cases, the county has directed health officials to shift focus to non-communicable diseases. The county government has started an initiative called Meru Care, where each family is required to contribute Sh2,000 per year. “This service is entirely voluntary and each family with the Meru Care card can get treatment from any hospital in Meru. With this care, we will be able to cater for more people,” Kiraitu said. Meru Hospice programme coordinator Gladys Mucee said the county lacks a cancer registry. It relies on data from Nairobi. “We have attended to over 400 patients with 67 survivors since 2003 in Meru and its environment,” she said. Betty Kendi, 49, a breast cancer survivor has been championing cancer screening and treatment in Meru. The mother of three was diagnosed with stage two breast cancer in 2012. She started treatment a few months later. She is still under medication. Kendi, has formed a group of 50 survivors called Voices of Hope. It creates awareness on cancer.