She went to hospital for check-up while pregnant and left with a perforated uterus. This is the story of Betty Wakio, who sued Mater Hospital for negligence and has been awarded Sh2.4 million compensation. In his judgment, senior resident magistrate Peter Muholi noted that the injuries suffered by Wakio were not beyond the control of Mater and dismissed the explanation that she had suffered an incomplete abortion before rushing to hospital. Muholi said that prior to the hospital visit, the woman did not have a perforated uterus. Court papers showed that on September 13, 2013 Wakio went to KNH to see a gynaecologist but was referred to Mater. She had suffered a miscarriage which led to evacuation, she said. After the evacuation, she had severe pain, promptingher to go back to the hospital five days later. A CT scan showed that she had a perforated uterus. She was admitted to the hospital as doctors tried to repair her uterus and intestines. She was discharged but the pain recurred forcing her to go to a different hospital. Another CT scan was done there too and she was treated. But the pain did not stop and she made another visit to Nairobi hospital where examination showed she had pelvic adhesion and chronic cystitis. She was treated and discharged. Pelvic adhesions are bands of tissues that may cause internal organs to stick to one another while chronic cystitis is a recurrent bladder infection. The hospital said Wakio had lost many pregnancies and had to undergo evacuation at different hospitals. The Mater Hospital denied liability, arguing that the perforation was caused elsewhere. Read: Speak out on medical negligence, Mailu urges The hospital told the court that it gives the highest possible standards of service through its qualified staff and therefore it had not in any way committed an offence. Further the court heard that the woman had been visiting the hospital since 2004 and not on even one occasion did she raise a complaint about the services she received. It also said the medical attention the woman was given was proper. A doctor who testified on behalf of the hospital denied any possibility of negligence that could have led to ovarian cysts.