A group of Mombasa MCAs plan to impeach three executives and a committee chairman for allegedly derailing development and undermining Governor Hassan Joho. Those targeted are Tawfiq Balala (Transport), Munyoki Kyalo (Youth and Sports), Edward Nyale (Lands) and nominated MCA Mohamed Hatimy (Finance committee chairman). Hatimy is one of Joho’s closest allies. He is said to have the governor’s ear and having his name on the list comes as a surprise. The MCAs say Balala is arrogant, rude and uncooperative. They declined to be named saying they will come out at the right time when they are ready with the motion. The ward reps say some wards are favoured in the street-lighting and warn that they will not tolerate bias in service delivery. They say Nyali wards have been left in darkness because of rivalry between MP Mohamed Ali and the county executive. “Mombasa is in darkness. Roads are dilapidated. He [Balala] doesn’t pick our calls and he’s arrogant,” one MCA who sought anonymity said. “We’re not fighting the governor. We’re fighting the people who are making our governor look bad.” But Balala, through county engineer Albert Keno, dismissed claims of bias, saying all the 30 wards benefit equally. “The department has put in place a programme to ensure fair and equitable distribution of the limited resources in terms of manpower, vehicles and equipment so all the 30 wards receive uninterrupted services,” Balala said in a report tabled in the assembly last Thursday. Committee boss heckled MCAs rejected the report which detailed how streetlights were supplied and technicians employed. Ganjoni-Shimanzi MCA Priscillah Mumba, the Transport committee chairperson, was heckled as she read the document. The MCAs accused her of allowing herself to “be used to sanitise ills in the department”. By yesterday, the MCAs had collected 38 signatures from their colleagues to have the officers sent packing. “After the collection of signatures, we’ll bring a motion to the assembly to send them home,” another MCA said. The report was tabled after chief whip and Frere Town MCA Charles Kitula asked for a statement over stalled and dysfunctional streetlights in his ward. He said residents have been exposed to insecurity for months. The ward is in Nyali. On Friday, Kitula told the Star that MCAs are not happy with the Transport executive but denied there is a plot to impeach him. “People are being attacked because there are no lights. That’s why MCAs are very angry. They feel the department has been sleeping on the job for one and a half years,” he said on the phone. “But there is no impeachment. If there were any plan, it would have to come to the House first. So far, no notice of such motion has been tabled.” On Friday, Mumba read mischief in the MCAs’ actions. She dismissed claims she is shielding Balala, saying the executive is being victimised. “That’s politics. No executive has performed like Tawfiq. I don’t know exactly what, but there is definitely something going on,” she said. Mumba said Balala explained the hurdles his department faces in terms of limited resources. “It’s not possible for the executive to say they have 12 technicians, yet they have two. He can’t lie. It’s like the MCAs wanted him to lie.” Nominated MCA Moses Aran concurred, saying the MCAs are on a witch-hunt mission. “These are baseless things. There’s no need to rush such things. All the executives are working,” he said. He said Joho’s current team is working better than the one he had in his first team. “We have faith in them. MCAs should do their roles,” Aran said. The report said a shortage of technicians has led to the delay in repairing defective street lamps in some wards. Only 16 technical staff serve the entire county. They are one director of operations and services, one electrical engineer, one technician, four artisans, four foremen and five labourers. UNDER PRESSURE STAFF Yesterday, Kyalo, Nyale and Hatimy defended themselves against accusations of non-performance. Instead, they said the few MCAs behind the claims are under pressure from their residents for failing in their work. They warned that the ill-motivated machinations will not work. Kyalo said he is not aware of any impeachment plans against him. “I’ve not heard such. But I’ll call you later. I’m in the office,” he said. Nyale dismissed the claims as “rumours by a few individuals”. He said his Lands docket has not been mentioned over questionable action in any assembly report, adding that he has no personal or official issues with the MCAs. Nyale said he has been focussed on fixing the squatter problem in Kisauni and Nyali. “Let’s wait and see if there will be any such motion in the assembly.” Hatimy said the MCAs have let their residents down. “Every executive in the county is doing their job. It’s the MCAs who are not,” he said. The Finance committee boss said that besides the Finance Bill and the budget, the MCAs have not come up with one single bill — “not even an amendment to an existing bill”. He dared them to try and bring a motion to impeach any executive. There are reports that DP William Ruto will soon be in Mombasa to launch street-lighting projects. It is against this backdrop that the MCAs feel Joho could be undermined. The county chief and the DP are not on good terms and are fighting to take charge of the country once President Uhuru Kenyatta’s term ends in 2022.