Leaders have have been urged to support the government attain 100 per cent transition from primary to secondary schools. Deputy President William Ruto said there is no excuse for any child to fail to access education. He urged MPs to help needy cases through the Constituency Development Fund. “We would want to see every child go to school because it is their constitutional right,” Ruto said. He spoke on Sunday during a service at the Pentecostal Evangelistic Fellowship of Africa church in South B, Nairobi. Read: 100 per cent transition 'may fail' Starehe MP Charles Njagua, Kikuyu's Kimani Ichung’wa and Lang’ata's Nixon Korir were present. Ruto said action would be taken against head teachers who demand fees from children in public primary and day secondary schools. By ensuring that every child accesses education, the Deputy President said Kenya would be on its way to addressing youth unemployment. “Youths without jobs are a threat to our future. That is why the government has decided to ensure that those who have completed primary schools join secondary schools while others enrol for technical training,” he said. He said the skills obtained in technical colleges would help drive the government’s Big Four agenda. Meanwhile, Ruto urged leaders to preach unity among Kenyans. “We must be united in order for us to overcome the challenges of our nation. With unity, we would be the agents of development of our country.” Njagua said leaders should support President Uhuru Kenyatta and Ruto in serving Kenyans. He, however, took issue with some leaders who were proposing the removal of the presidential term limits. “The President has made it clear that he does not want to focus on politics but development. He has also stated that he would not run for another term after 2022,” Njagua said. His sentiments were echoed by his Kikuyu counterpart who asked politicians to stop engaging in referendum talk and focus on transforming Kenya. “We must be careful on what we would want changed in the Constitution because we cannot afford to divide this country; unity has been the basis of our development,” Ichung’wa said. Click here for the latest political news