As the nurses’ strike enters day three across the country, it is business as usual in Bungoma - health caregivers are on duty. The county has been, and continues to engage the nurses on how to better their working conditions, Health executive Antony Walela said on Monday. Walela said the nurses’ union officials had given a grace period of up to March 3 before they result to industrial action. He said nurses across the health facilities in the county’s nine constituencies are on duty as usual. He assured patients in the nine constituences that they need not panic. Walela told the press in his Bungoma office that the officials of the nurses’ union, led by branch chairman George Shiveka, have been engaging Governor Wycliffe Wangamati in talks on how their working conditions can be taken sorted out. He said the county had introduced measures to ensure that the nurses work well. “We normally ensure our nurses are paid on time every month, latest by 27th, and also listen to their officials whenever they raise any issues affecting them.” 23 COUNTIES AFFECTED The Kenya National Union of Nurses had a fortnight ago asked its members to down their tools by Monday. Twenty three counties are affected. The nurses accuse county governments of failure to implement a comprehensive return-to-work agreement they signed in November 2017. The strike is effective in Nairobi, Kisumu, Homa Bay, Murang’a, Kisii, Embu, Kiambu, Garissa, Elgeyo Marakwet, Kirinyaga, Marsabit, Nyandarua and Nyeri. Also affected are Samburu, Trans Nzoia, Tharaka Nithi, West Pokot, Kitui, Wajir, Kwale, Mandera and Taita Taveta. Only three counties - Machakos, Mombasa and Migori - are not affected by the strike. Twenty one other devolved units are keen to fulfill the 2017 Collective Bargaining Agreement. KNUN secretary general Seth Panyako on Monday insisted that the strike must go on until the national government and the Council of Governors meet their demands. The governors, in a letter to the union, urged the nurses to negotiate with officials in affected counties. The CoG on Saturday said it expected the standoff to be resolved quickly to avoid paralysing health services.