Poor eating habits have been blamed for the increase in cases of anaemia among women seeking ante-natal care in Nakuru. The revelation comes barely a week after reports from a non-governmental organisation that maize, cooking oil and wheat flour are not fortified with the necessary nutrients as per the law. Last week, Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition said the country is doing badly in ensuring major food products are fortified. To address this, the county has moved in to provide food supplements to minors in ECD and reproductive women seeking ante-natal care. Health executive Kariuki Gichuki said cases of anaemic mothers are rising mainly due to lack of necessary supplements in their meals. “We have launched a programme where we are providing supplements to minors under five and women seeking ante-natal care,” he said. They are in the process of encompassing girls who are on the menstrual cycles in the programme, he said. “We are targeting girls who are entering puberty in this programme as they lose a lot of blood during their menstrual cycle,” he said. He further said cases of stunted growth are on the rise despite the county been endowed with various crops. “The county might be endowed with food but the biggest problem that families are undergoing is eating poor diet that ends up affecting their health.” The doctor added that obesity is also a challenge adding that women have been the most affected. “One of the major contributors to the emerging challenges are failure by food companies to fortify maize, cooking oil and wheat flour with the necessary nutrients as per the law,” he said. Last week, GAIN county director Leah Kaguara said no county had met the set standards in terms of fortifying food products. Kaguara identified Bomet and Kitui as counties with the high cases of stunted growth while Nyeri and Kirinyaga lead in obesity. “We have launched a project to educate the counties in the need to improve the food we eat by adding the recommended vitamins and other micronutrients,” she said.