Five commercial banks could be sanctioned and their managers charged with criminal offences for handling more than Sh8 billion looted from the National Youth Service. DPP Noordin Haji yesterday formed a team of prosecutors to review investigation files forwarded by the DCI, which recommended sanctions and prosecution of the managers. “I’ve constituted a team of senior prosecutors to independently review the respective investigation files and make recommendations within 14 days,” Haji said. The banks are Standard Chartered, KCB, Equity Bank, Diamond Trust and Co-op Bank. Haji had ordered the DCI to investigate the criminal culpability of the banks and their managers over their role in the loss of the NYS funds. This was after it emerged that individuals accused of looting the money carried out transactions involving huge sums of money in the banks. The action by the banks, the regulator and the DCI believe, amounts to money laundering and violation of banking regulations. “Charges should be preferred against the banks, bank officials, individuals and entities for concealing and facilitating, aiding, abetting and benefiting from proceeds of crime,” Haji said in a statement. The investigation shows that Standard Chartered Bank received Sh588.5 million for transacting Sh1.6 billion between January 2016 and April 2018, while Equity Bank received Sh270 million for transacting Sh886 million believed to have been stolen from the agency. KCB raked in Sh148.3 million for handling Sh800 million, Co-operative Bank received Sh25 million for transacting Sh250 million, while Diamond Trust Bank got Sh27.9 million for transacting Sh164 million. Read: Five banks 'suspiciously' handled Sh1bn NYS cash, DCI tells DPP “The money was suspiciously transacted by bank officials and no reports were made to the FRC in accordance with the law,” he said. Banking regulations require that the banks flag any transaction worth more than Sh1 million and report to the CBK if there is a reason to believe it is unusual and suspicious. Family Bank of Kenya, which was also involved in the saga, opted for a plea bargain with the DPP after pleading guilty to charges against it. The bank was accused of handling Sh1.6 billion between December 22, 2014, and May 19, 2015. It was fined Sh64.5 million. Some Sh24.5 million was to be deposited into an NYS account and Sh40 million was court fine. Several government officals among them former NYS director Richard Ndubai and suspended Public Service PS Lilian Omollo are fighting corruption charges in court over the loss of the money. Also See: CBK penalises five banks Sh392m over flawed NYS payments Click here for the latest political news