Two doctors want to be absolved of blame over the botched breast enlargement surgery that led to the death of a client. Prof Stanley Khainga and Dr Martin Ajujo are accused of negligence. They have challenged the findings of a preliminary inquiry committee that looked into the complaint filed by the family of the late June Wanza. Wanza died on June 2 last year after her intestines were punctured during the cosmetic procedure. The Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Board constituted the committee to hear complaints. The report says the family had established an arguable case. It has directed that Khainga and Ajujo’s case proceed to full hearing before the board. It also wants the board to prefer charges of professional misconduct against Khainga, Ajujo, Evans Charana and Surgeoderm Healthcare Limited. Yesterday, Khainga, Ajujo and Surgeoderm filed a new application seeking to quash the decision of the inquiry. They said the committee does not have the powers to direct the board or recommend who should be charged. Read: Medical board investigates botched breast enlargement case Through lawyer Kiama Wangai, they want the court to restrain the board from relying on the findings to take action against them. During the committee hearings, Khainga and Surgeoderm had argued that Wanza arrived at The Nairobi Hospital in stable condition and it was another doctor’s fault that led to internal haemorrhage and her death. Two weeks ago, The Nairobi Hospital denied wrongdoing.Medical director Christopher Abeid said the surgery that led to Wanza’s complications was carried out at a different facility. He accused Khainga for allowing an unqualified medical officer to handle the patient and her documents. “The second petitioner [Martin Ajujo] is not a qualified plastic surgeon and it was unacceptable for the first petitioner [Khainga], who had primary care over the patient, to allow him to review the patient and document her file,” Abeid said. Also Read: Husband blames surgeons for wife’s botched breast surgery Click here for the latest political news