Only Sikh Union’s all-rounder Sukhdeep Singh has been retained from the national team that featured in last year’s ICC U-19 Cricket World Cup in New Zealand for next month’s 2020 Africa World Cup qualifiers set for Windhoek, Namibia. Kenya finished bottom in last year’s global showpiece and will be seeking to make improvement in this year’s event scheduled for March 15-24. Consider his vast experience, Sukhdeep who turns out for Nairobi Provincial Cricket Association (NPCA) League side, Nairobi Sikh Union was also named as the captain. He leads a 14-man squad that consists of a number of new faces with majority having little or no experience at top local scene. Most of the players selected in the squad that will be under the tutelage of Jimmy Kamande, play for second string NPCA Super League sides. Sukhdeep will be the team’s main player in the batting line-up that has Peponi School duo of Dilan Shah and Shay Shah. The two won the selectors’ confidence after impressive show in the trial matches held two weeks ago at Ruaraka Sports Club and in a number of tournaments held last year. Shay was voted the player of the tournament at last December’s Dezo Youth tournament in Nairobi. Shay is looking forward to representing his country for the first time in Namibia. “This is the first Kenyan team I have made. I was pretty nervous waiting for the selection,” Shay said. “When I heard my name being called by the selection panel, it was pure relief. The selection was hard as everyone was eager to make the cut,” he said. Mombasa’s Shukan Mehta is the other batsman selected in the team. He will be joined by his Mombasa Sports Club team-mate Sukhraj Singh. On his part, Dilan who also turns out for Obuya Academy in the NPCA League, said he is delighted to have won the confidence of the selection panel and he is optimistic of putting on a good show in Namibia. “I will try and work hard in each match that I will asked to play. I know it will not be easy as we will be coming up against tough teams like the hosts Nambia and Uganda but we will give it our best,” Dilan said. In Namibia, Kenya will fight it out with Uganda, Tanzania, Nigeria, Sierra Leone and hosts Namibia for the sole slot reserved for the continent in the 2020 U-19 World Cup set for South Africa in January and February. Full squad: Sukhdeep Singh (captain, Sikh Union), Shukan Mehta (Mombasa SC), Sukhraj Singh (Mombasa SC), Brij Patel (Gymkhana), Dilan Shah (Obuya Academy), Shay Shah (Obuya Academy), Krushil Savla (wicket-keeper, Sikh Union),Hashil Vekaria (Ruaraka), Francis Mutua (Stray Lions), Vraj Patel (Sikh Union), Predyuman Doshi (Mombasa Simba), David Okaro (South Africa) and Satish Hirani (Kanbis).