Governor Alfred Mutua has urged Machakos MCAs to bury their past political differences and work together. Mutua said residents have suffered for two years because of political wrangling. On Tuesday, he said there has been a lot of wrangling and propaganda, especially by those who expected a governor’s by-election. He said the Supreme Court ruled he was democratically elected as governor. “Now that the petition that was against me is over and you all know that I’m the governor and will continue to be the governor for the remaining period of our tenure, I ask that we put aside what has been going on and start afresh to accelerate development and catch up on the lost time.” Mutua was presiding over the official opening of the third session of the County Assembly. The governor said economic and human development indicators show the quality of life for Machakos residents has been improving since 2013 when he took over. He said studies are being carried out by local and international experts and they will be published soon. “I’m confident it will be shown that we have achieved much more than other counties. However, there remains so much work to be done.” Mutua said he respected every MCA and urged them to work with him to serve residents better. The governor said he has forgiven the MCAs who wronged and talked ill of his administration and himself. “As Indira Gandhi once said ‘You cannot shake hands with a clenched fist’. My hand is open. Please unclench yours,” he urged the MCAs. Mutua said maturity in leadership is manifested by leaders who look at the bigger picture, not people who cling on mediocrity. He urged the MCAs to fast-track the approval of the County Integrated Development Plan (CIDP), pass the Supplementary Budget, withdraw all court cases and have fair membership in committees to improve their relations with the executive. Mutua said the executive and the legislature needed to give each other space to work within their mandates. He urged the MCAs to participate in the South Eastern Kenya Economic Bloc (Sekeb) and work with other assemblies. “You are aware of Sekeb and the partnership between the three Ukambani counties. Let us not be afraid or panic when Ukambani leaders join hands to work together,” he said.