Once again Kenyan champions Gor Mahia will have to do without the services of their dependable centre half Joash Onyango when they play Algerian outfit, NA Hussein Dey in their third CAF Confederations Cup Pool D match at Moi Stadium Kasarani on Sunday. Onyango, who missed the club’s play-off home and away matches against Cameroon-based New Star de Doula alongside the club’s skipper Harun Shakava on disciplinary grounds, will sit out when Gor confront the Algerians on Sunday for accumulating two yellow cards in the competition. The Kenyan International was cautioned in their 2-1 loss to Petro Atletico de Lounda hence will be unavailable on Sunday when Gor will be seeking to recapture the pool’s top spot as well as end the Algerian’s unbeaten run. According to the club’s chief executive officer, Omondi Aduda, the centre half will follow the proceedings from the stands but expressed confidence with the rest of team in drowning their opponent. “We are ready for the match but we will miss Onyango who is suspended for the match for accumulating two yellow cards. The rest of the players are ready for the match and I believe they will carry the day. Tickets for the match will be retailing at Sh500 for the VIP section and Sh200 for the terraces.” Despite the suspension setback, coach Hasan Oktay will have the luxury to select five of his stars after missing the trip to Angola two weeks ago through suspension and injuries. Legendary striker Dennis Oliech, holding midfielder Ernest Wendo and right back Wellington Ochieng will be available for selection after recovering while the duo of Jacques Tuyisenge and Philemon Otieno are back in contention after serving their one match ban. Hussein Dey quietly checked in yesterday morning and are set to train today and tomorrow ahead of the much awaited clash. “I can confirm they arrived yesterday morning,” said Aduda Gor are placed second with three points one shy of their visitors who top the group following their 2-1 home win against Petro Atletico and an away draw against Zamalek in their opening two group stage matches. Gor saw off Zamalek 4-2 in the opening group stage match early this month and will be looking to capitalise on the home advantage and reign supreme over the Algerians.