Italian coach Shailene Ramdoo has been seconded to the national volleyball women’s team for three months ahead of the 2020 Olympic 2020 Olympic qualifiers set for August in Italy. Ramdoo has been seconded to Kenya by the FIVB at the Kenya Volleyball Federation’s request ahead of the quadrennial event. “We asked for the foreign coach from FIVB to come help raise the level of our girls’ competitiveness and more importantly to increase our chances of qualifying for the Tokyo Olympics,” said Waithaka Kioni, the KVF president. KVF have already asked for financial support from International Olympic Committee through National Olympic Committee of Kenya and the government. The contribution from the two entities will be complemented by team sponsor National Oil Corporation. “Given Kenya’s financial position, FIVB will pay the Italian tactician a salary for the duration she will be here while I will foot his local bills,” added the official who is also the Nock vice chairman. Meanwhile, Kenya has two chances— intercontinental and continental tournaments— to qualify for the 2020 Tokyo Olympics, according to the circular released by the FIVB on Monday evening. The new FIVB Olympics qualification system has pooled the top 24 teams in the world rankings (as at January 1, 2019) in both genders into six groups from which the leaders automatically qualifies for the most coveted global sports carnival held every four years. Christened Malkia Strikers, the national women’s team who sit in position 19 in the world, have been drawn in a tough Pool ‘F’ where they will battle Italy placed sixth, The Netherlands (seventh) and Belgium (18th). “Ramdoo will work with 20 players who the local technical bench will have called up to camp since three months is little for him to start a fresh selection. We are in a difficult pool so the players will need adequate specialised attention,” Kioni continued. The women’s intercontinental showpiece will qualify six teams, the continental competitions will produce five squads while Japan will compete as host nation. Previously, each of the five continents qualified two teams (10), then one through the last chance qualification tournament in addition to the host nation to make 12. The intercontinental system of qualifications will rattle Europeans as Europe boosts of several competitive teams that will be locked out of the Olympic. “In favour of weaker teams from Asia, Africa, South America and North America teams,” as reported on FIVB website. 