Activist Okiya Omtatah has gone to court to challenge the latest state appointments by President Uhuru Kenyatta. He argues that they have not been done on merit as had been directed by the court. Omtatah is seeking to quash the appointments to Boards of State Corporations made on February 4 and 8, 2019 by the Executive. A week ago, the employment court ordered that all state appointment should be done on merit. In the latest appointments, Sports legend Paul Tergat was appointed chairperson Kenya Academy of Sports Council. Former Laikipia Governor Joshua Irungu was appointed the chairperson of the Water Services Resource Board for the next three years. Former Mwingi Central MP Joe Mutambu, a critic of Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, will chair the Water Resource Authority. ODM treasurer Olga Karani has been appointed the chairperson of the Council of Kenya Cultural Centre. All the appointments in a Gazette notice are said to be effected between February 7 and 8. Omtatah last month filed a petition which sought to have Parliament stopped from recruiting National Cohesion and Integration Commission commissioners. See more: High Court rules Parliament has no powers to nominate NCIC commissioners The High Court later declared the recruitment of commissioners to the NCIC by Parliament as unconstitutional. The court ruled that any appointment resulting from the nominations by Parliament was null and void. Justice Wilfrida Okwany ruled that the National Assembly has no powers to nominate people to the commission, saying that the MPs' mandate must be within the constitution. Omtatah argued that the exercise ought to be carried out by the Public Service Commission (PSC) and not Parliament. The activist said the House should only be restricted to vetting those recruited by the PSC and recommend them for a presidential appointment if approved. More on this:Former governors, sports legend land state jobs in Uhuru's latest appointments Also Read: Read list of Uhuru's 32 new appointments to state corporation boards Click here for the latest political news    