Kabras coach Henley Du Plessis has praised his defence following their hard-fought 21-3 victory over Quins in Kenya Cup encounter played over the weekend at the RFUEA grounds. The South African tactician admitted that his side were not at their best but still managed to grind out a great win which sees their unbeaten run stretch to nine matches. “We had little possession but the few chances we got were executed well and we got the tries,” said Du Plessis. He observed that they need a tough match after blowing up their opponents with 40 points margin in their previous eight matches. “This was a good game to play because were tested in facets of play and survived and going forward, it will help us as we chase the championship,” he observed, adding that said there is still room for improvement despite their unbeaten start to the season. “We had issues in our line-out the whole match and it’s one area we have to fix because it’s a critical component of the game,” he noted. Ugandan import Phillip Wokorach scored a double with Kenya Simbas flanker George Nyambua scoring a try. Wokorach added three conversions. Kabras lead 14-3 at the interval. Lyle Asiligwa scored the lone penalty for the hosts. Head coach Charles Cadovillis rued the sides mistakes and inability to convert chances to points. “The tries conceded were all our mistakes and we spent so much time in their 22 and we could not convert so it’s lessons learnt as we prepare for our next game against Blak Blad ,” he said Cadovillis. Kabras now have 44 points four ahead of KCB, who thrashed Strathmore Leos 53-8 at Madaraka . Tony Onyango and Peter Kilonzo scored two tries each with Mike Wanjala, Peter Karia, Nelson Nyandat, Vincent Onyala and Darwin Mukidza crossing over once each. Mukidza converted one while Samuel Asati kicked four conversions. Nondies stay fourth on 28 points after coming from behind to beat Nakuru RFC 33-32 at the latter’s backyard. Nondies at a point trailed 22-5. Kenya Sevens star Collins Injera scored a hattrick as Mwamba beat Blak Blad 26-13. Homeboyz stay sixth after beating Mean machine 22-13 as Impala needed their four-match winless streak to beat Menengai Oilers 24-22 in Nakuru.