 NYS suspects facing various graft charges could soon be ‘free’ and leaving court-rooms if they agree to enter plea-bargain according to the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP). According to the DPP Noordin Haji, they were keen on the concept which would see the suspects return the stolen loot and pay a fine before been set free. He admitted that they were already working with some of the NYS suspects and Family Bank which had been used as a conduit to withdraw the NYS cash. “Already we are working with Family bank on the issue of plea bargain and other NYS suspects as this practice will help offset some of these graft cases,” he said. He was however quick to note that they would be keen on the use of plea-bargain so that it would not be misused or abused by organizations and individuals charged with corruption. “We are currently looking at five banks and our officers will be taking suspects to court in the coming weeks once we are through with the files,” he said. This emerged when members of the National Council on Administration of Justice (NCAJ) met in Enashipai Spa in Naivasha for a day workshop. On his part, the CJ David Maraga welcomed the plea-bargain concept noting that it would help in the recovery of stolen assets. Justice Maraga said that the judiciary fully welcomed the move but was quick to note that the laid procedures and the laws should be followed. “If a suspect charged with corruption agrees to pay back and return the stolen assets then the judiciary would not have any problem with this,” he said. The CJ at the same time defended the recent transfers of judges terming them as normal adding that this would go on. He denied that there was pressure from the State in transfers which saw judges critical to the State given different roles. “In the past, I have transferred judges and next week I shall be transferring more and this is part of my job as the CJ and there is no pressure from any quarters,” he said. Maraga at the same time defend the move by courts to throw out sensitive cases due to what magistrates and judges termed as weak evidence. Addressing the press, Chief Registrar in the Judiciary Ann Amadi said that members of the council had agreed to work as one team to fight graft. “In order to eliminate bottlenecks in the fight against corruption, the Council resolved to set up a committee to identify key challenges and make proposals that will engender greater efficiencies,” she said. 