The Director
of Public Prosecutions yesterday failed to convince the court to detain two MCAs and four other suspects for 14
days over incitement charges. They are accused of inciting traders not to pay taxes. The six Mukuyuni MCA Meshack Simiyu alias Museveni and his Chwele counterpart Barasa  Mukhongo, Ben wangila, Harrison
Maina, Ben wanyonyi and Titus Wanyama, who are traders representative, are also accused of inciting traders of Chwele market to violence, which started last week. Through an affidavit by the Chwele OCS,which was presented by DPP's representative  Christine 
Ooko, the prosecution had requested Bungoma magistrate Chembeni Adisa detain the suspects to allow the police to
carry out more investigations with a view of charging them with inciting the
public and committing economic crimes . Ooko had
argued the suspects were very influential in the area and would interfere
with the witnesses. She further
argued the  police had been unable to
carry out the investigations because the police station had been engaged
in running battles with the traders. “Your honour, these persons are very influential and no investigations can be held when they
are out because they have many supporters who are giving police a hard time. Their support can be seen with the numbers that have filled this court,” Ooko said. But defence lawyer John
Makali opposed the
application saying the application was retrogressive  because it infringed on the respondents' rights. Makali said the respondents were willing to comply with the courts. Adisa  in his ruling said
the application had no merit and granted the six a cash
bail of Sh250,000 or a surety of Sh500,000 each. He also
directed that they report to Chwele police station daily  as police continue with their investigation. Lawyer Makali faulted the ruling saying
he will appeal at the High Court. “How do you
rule that the application has no merit and again impose conditions to the respondents? Supposing they don’t  pay the bail, how
will they be reporting at the police station when in remand?” he posed. Chwele
market has hit the headlines for the past days with traders engaging the police
and county askaris in running battles. The have
refused to pay taxes saying the market, which is the second open air largest
market in the county, has no toilets nor water. They have
vowed that unless the county government constructs toilets and connects water
they wont pay taxes.