The calls for inclusivity
in government have intensified since the March 9 handshake. Many are in agreement that
relations among various ethnic communities in Kenya have been characterised by
deep animosity and suspicion, which heighten during elections. This is largely because
individuals hailing from a few ethnic communities dominate the political
structures and economic resources of the country, to the exclusion of other
communities. The situation is made worse
by the tendency of those in authority to use the State apparatus to
economically benefit themselves, their kin, their friends and regions. This exclusion was
exacerbated as the country increasingly became centralised, contributing to
intermittent conflicts, which often occur following general elections, the
worst being the 2007 post-election violence.
It is this situation that the Building Bridges Initiative, the brainchild of President
Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga, seeks to rectify. For its part, ODM has
amplified its call for constitutional amendments to create the position of
Prime Minister and two deputies to ensure inclusivity in government. The Raila-led party
believes the creation of the post would end the perennial post-election tension
that often leads to death and destruction of property. The Orange party blames the
winner-take- all and the loser leaves hungry and disenfranchised system as the
baton that sparks the violence every electoral circle. Indeed, Raila has repeatedly
expressed his disgust at the fact that nine years after the promulgation of the
Constitution in 2010, the laws have failed to ensure unity of Kenyans, equity
and tame corruption.  His remedy for this malady
is the establishment of a three-tier government. Another school of thought
associated with the President is equally rooting for a referendum to bring back
the position of the Prime Minister and deputies, with an aim of having Uhuru
occupy the post. This group does not want
the President to retire from politics after his second term ends in 2022 and
has even suggested constitutional change to remove the presidential term limit. The third force comprises
those allied to Deputy President William Ruto, who have made it clear they will
not support any attempt to amend the Constitution to create new positions in
the Executive. This group, as DP Ruto
pointed out in his lecture at Chatham House in London, proposes the creation
and recognition of the Official Opposition in Parliament. They aver the current
formulation undermines Executive accountability and saddled “our democracy with
a headless, incoherent and dysfunctional opposition.” To tame the winner-take-all
formation, and therefore allow the opposition to actively take part in the running
of the country, the Ruto group is proposing an ambitious reconfiguration of the
government to comprise the national executive and the official opposition. From the foregoing, it is
evident that a rational discourse on the mode of government Kenyans should
adopt is taking place. As Farmers Party, we too
wish to add our voice in the matter as a national party that largely represents
the interests of the farming community. First, as pointed out by DP
Ruto, one question that demands more attention is whether the country can
afford to conduct a referendum, census and boundary review before the next
polls.  Besides the large expense
to be incurred in the three exercises, there is also another question as to
whether they won’t lead to more ethnic animosity given their outcomes will not
please all. This issue needs serious
rethinking to ensure the three exercises do not end up polarising the country
along ethnic lines. As Farmers Party, we
believe the proposal mooted by Ruto for reconfiguration of the government to
comprise the national executive and the official opposition is the best way
forward. This is because in any
democratic contest, there is always a winner and a loser. The maxim is for the winner
to have his way and the loser to have his say. The winner is expected to
implement his vision as stipulated in his party’s manifesto, without
distraction from a prime minister from a rival party. It is important for the
people who lose elections recognise that they lost fair and square and to
convey that truth to their supporters. That is what Uhuru did in
2002 when he lost the presidential race to Mwai Kibaki, and partly explains why
today he is the head of state.  The writer is the Farmers
party leader  