Kenya’s energy sector has made promising developments. This year is set to be an exciting one for electricity consumers. There has been a notable shift in the direction the government wants to take for investments in the country's energy future. This move is contrary to the initial plans to invest in the dirty coal power plant in Lamu and mining in Kitui. President Uhuru Kenyatta has promised to lead Kenya to 100 per cent clean energy by 2020. In addition to the commissioning of the 83MW Phase 6 of the Olkaria 1 geothermal energy project, the government is also pursuing efforts to finance the 105MW Menengai Phase 1 geothermal energy project in 2019. There is also the 100MW wind park in Kajiado county, which is expected to go live by 2020. The National Treasury 2019 draft budget statement, however, seeks to finance the Lamu coal power plant. All the indicators, including policy plans and public pronunciations by leaders, have clearly shown the plant is not good for the economy, environment and livelihoods. Allocating funds to any coal project is a futile venture packed with grave deception that will lead to dire short and long-term consequences. The Energy Regulatory Commission, through its updated least cost power development plan report published in June last year, raised concerns about the viability of investing in coal. The government now fears that Kenya’s first coal-fired power plant could sit idle due to sluggish demand growth, forcing consumers to pay for stranded electricity. For a long time, responsible citizens, climate activists, environmentalists and scientists have raised concerns about the social, environmental and economic costs of the coal projects. Studies across the world have shown that the social, environmental and economic costs of running coal fired power plants exceed the benefits. In September 2018 the Lake Turkana wind power connected to the national grid. Clean and affordable energy sources, such as the Turkana wind farm, are fast displacing the expensive and polluting energy powered by imported diesel. This will reduce the fuel costs that are normally transferred to consumers, thus, reducing the cost of electricity. Sadly, Kenya is stuck with expensive fossil fuel power purchase agreements that may hinder consumers from benefiting from the inclusion of wind power on the grid. Renewable energy provides Kenya with plenty of opportunities for local communities. Early estimates for the proposed Kipeto wind park in Kajiado indicate that more than 400 jobs will be created during construction and an additional 70 permanent jobs once the it starts operating. Additionally, the surrounding Maasai community is set to receive five per cent of annual dividends once the plant goes live in 2020. Communities in Lamu that have sustainably managed their land, natural resources and traditions for generations, are now confronted with the most serious threat: the proposed coal power plant. Coal presents a threat to Lamu’s historically and naturally rich ecosystem. The plant represents a situation where indigenous and local communities, their natural resources, livelihoods and culture can be threatened by unnecessary developments. The plant alone will exceed all of Kenya’s existing emissions and make the country one of the worst emitters of greenhouse gases on the continent. Renewable energy technologies are pollution free and do not depend on fuel imports. Kenya’s abundant renewable energy resources offer the government an opportunity to mitigate climate change by reducing the country's carbon footprint, while creating much-needed jobs. Last year many Kenyans were concerned about the increasingly unstable electricity prices. Their concerns were exacerbated by the idea that the government planned to invest in coal energy. Therefore, the recent intention by the government to deepen the use of renewable energy, particularly geothermal and solar - as indicated in the national electrification strategy, presents consumers with the relief they need in 2019. Clever countries and investors have realised that outdated coal power projects will soon be rendered useless. Investing in the Lamu plant presents the risk of a huge investment leading to stranded assets and unnecessary costs to the electricity consumers. Compared to coal, renewable energy sources have lower total costs, less long-term risks and greater potential to power sustainable economic development. Kenya needs to grasp the opportunities that are available, such as the €44 million provided by European Union and many others to boost investment in renewable energy in Africa and provide clean and affordable energy to consumers. Greenpeace Africa Campaigner