Attending to patients in Mathari Mental Hospital, some brought in handcuffs is not an easy, narrates Caren Nyawira, a nurse at the facility. She says the environment is so stressful that some nurses end up looking like they have mental problems too. Mathari is the only psychiatric facility in the country dedicated to diagnosis, prevention and treatment of mental disorders. Nyawira is among other nurses from the hospital who are on strike demanding the implementation of the 2017 return to work formula. The agreement was signed by the county governments and the national government. "What we are demanding is a special risk allowance because some of the patients we are dealing with are hardcore rape and murder criminals from prisons," she said yesterday. The hospital according to the care giver has more than 700 patients against 168 nurses, divided between working day and night shift. "I have personally been beaten twice, and even kicked in the stomach by a patient I was attending to. Last week a nurse was attacked and sustained broken legs. Surely, how can the government tell us the Sh3,500 risk allowance we get is much? That is a meager figure and we want it increased," she said. She said the last time time they had a strike, three patients were knocked down by vehicles when they strayed to the busy Thika superhighway. Just like their colleagues who started their strike last week on Monday, the nurses at the mental hospital are asking for uniform and nursing services allowance as well. "Our promotions have stagnated since 2009. It is supposed to be done every three years. It is not a favour, I have worked for the promotion and deserve it," Nyawira said. She said their children have to survive for long on their own because what they cannot afford a house girl nor good schools. She said some have to go to Gikomba to buy and resell mitumba to have additional income, yet it is not even allowed. They were flagged by their counterparts from National Spinal injury hospital, Port Health and Blood Bank. The strike which started last week enters its 9th day today, despite a court order suspending it for 60 days.