Kisumu nurses on Thursday called off their strike, bringing to an end three weeks of suffering by patients in the lakeside city. The move comes after a successful consultative meeting held between the KNUN Kisumu branch officials, the county Health Department and county secretary. In their agreement deal signed by the KNUN branch chair Flora Ambani and secretary Ann Owiti, the nurses are to resume their duties immediately or not later than Friday 5pm. The letter also signed by the county secretary Olang’o Onudi and the Chief Health officer Stephen Sewe, states that the county will release salaries for all nurses for the month of February. It further adds that no nurse shall be victimised for participating in the strike with all show-cause letters issued to them be withdrawn with immediate effect. Read: Nurses' strike: Council of Governors wants stalemate unlocked However, the union branch will still await results of the conciliation efforts spearheaded by the Ministry of Labour and Social Protection. “The county government of Kisumu is committed to paying the enhanced uniform and nursing allowance once approval from the Salaries and Remuneration Commission has been obtained,“ the letter read in part. It also states that promotion, re-designation and confirmation of nurses serving on a contract will be prioritised once the county Public Service Board is constituted. Additional nurses will also be hired by the county government to address the increasing workload. Kisumu now joins Bomet, Murang'a, Kisii and Embu counties whose nurses called off their strike this week. Read also: Relief for patients as Bomet nurses call off strike Despite a court order suspending the strike for 60 days, more than 5,000 nurses across the country are yet to go back to work. KNUN Secretary General Seth Panyako told union members to remain firm and fight for their rights. The union officials are expected to appear in court on February 26 for contempt of court. Click here for the latest political news