In people’s minds, the media has already used negative ethnicity to kill Kenya and replaced it with ethnic identities and homelands. In the counties, Kenyan identity is disregarded, second-classed and demonised as enemy identity. Falsely credited with bringing power and resources to the grassroots, counties have devolved resources and power not to Wanjiku but elites of the county. Worse, through taxes and graft, under devolution common people are as oppressed and exploited by county governments as they were by central governments. In fact, under devolution citizens suffer double oppression and exploitation by both central and county governments. As intended, ethnic elites are the primary beneficiaries of devolution, not ordinary people. Indeed, ethnic elites are no lesser exploiters of their grassroots and ethnic communities than national elites. While exorbitant taxes alone don’t make ruling elites evil, the exclusive misuse and theft of those taxes make both the elites and their unaffordable taxes evil and hateful. Devolution that facilitates theft cannot be what the people wanted. County governments are no longer yearned. They are loathed. In the meantime, the power struggles we witness in the media everyday are not about how best county governments can serve people but how county and national elites can share power and resources they have looted from people. To avoid the tragedy of distorted devolution, the Constitution should have been written in such way that its implementation would create no problems for unity of the country; occasion a struggle for power between governments of devolution, Senate, National Assembly, Executive and the Judiciary. It should not have allowed negative ethnicity to be the ideology of devolution to the detriment of nationalism and should not have conceived devolution that would degenerate into majimbo. Ultimately, devolution for the elite will do more harm than good. It will put elites into power to exploit people and kill Kenya that is united and above tribe. Unless Kenyans get the right people to manage devolution, it will do nothing to develop Kenya. Instead devolution will be just another avenue of the elites to exploit the poor. The former Subukia MP Spoke to the Star