I am deeply disturbed that the Hon Judge Chacha Mwita has arrogated to himself the power to appoint Justice Warsame as a JSC commissioner. This is state capture by the Judiciary and a serious affront to the rule of law and separation of powers. It is an issue that Justice David Kenani Maraga has to address if he expects the rest of us to respect the Judiciary. One of Kenya’s greatest achievements post-independence was the passage of the 2010 Constitution. Among many innovative provisions, the Constitution defined several principles which would bind all State organs and the citizenry in their interactions. Principal amongst the values of good governance was the concept of separation of powers and the rule of law. Pursuant to this principle, the three arms of government, the Executive, the Legislature and the Judiciary were all allocated areas of exclusive competence, even as they acted as checks and balances on each other. Another critical underlying tenet in the constitution is the principle, articulated in Article 2 and 3, that the Constitution is supreme, and that all persons and institutions, including the Judiciary, are subordinate to, subject to, and required to uphold the Constitution. Nowhere is this clearer than in the recent decision made by Justice Chacha Mwita in High Court Petition No 307 of 2018 on the appointment of Justice Mohamed Warsame to the Judicial Service Commission. The JSC which is the body that oversees the judiciary is established in accordance with Article 171 and 250 of the Constitution. Since he was taken through a process of election for this position, Justice Warsame was assuming office. Justice Mwita in his decision bypassed the appointment provisions, by “deeming” Justice Warsame appointed and did away with the requirement for the Oath of Office on the basis of a contested provision of the Judicial Service Act. His decision totally ignored the clear and unambiguous provisions of the Constitution. There can be no greater evidence of judicial overreach and judicial impunity than this decision. In one stroke of a pen, the Judge effectively ordered that two provisions of the Constitution be violated, an action that would be unthinkable for other institutions. To the Chief Justice, Hon David Maraga, your management of this issue is of equal significance as your ruling of1st September 1, 2017 that nullified the Presidential Election. We are watching.