Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu has reiterated that Mt Kenya voters will back Deputy President William Ruto in 2022. The governor was speaking in Kakamega on Sunday during a funds drive at the Christ the King Catholic church which the DP presided over. Ruto donated Sh2 million and delivered President Uhuru Kenyatta's donation of Sh1 million. Waititu said that no one should cheat Kenyans that the DP will not receive support from the region. He said the original plan of the region to back DP Ruto in 2022 was still as intact as it was in 2013. “As the people of Mount Kenya region, we follow development. And we know and we have seen the kind of work our DP has done in terms of development, all other things are just noise, empty stories, and vague politics," Waititu said. Read: Renewed unease in Mt Kenya over Uhuru's 2022 exit "I beseech you [people of Kakamega] to join us and let us go to the government together with DP Ruto as our leader unless you want to continue staying in opposition.” Waititu took a swipe on those opposed to the DP saying that anybody regardless their background is eligible to lead the country. He added that Ruto will take over the mantle of this country despite his humble and seemingly inconsequential background. “We shall follow the son of the poor, who has been a hustler, who has sold chicken and rose to the level he is now and that is none other than William Samoei Ruto,” the Governor said. Waititu said ODM Raila Odinga cannot decide who the leader of the country will be. Read also: Mt Kenya splits into Raila and Ruto camps He said that during his time as the Prime Minister there was nothing he did for the common man that he can be proud of. Waititu added that during Raila's tenure, Kibera slum was the worst place yet he was the MP for Lang’ata. “We are following Ruto because of his work and also because he can be trusted and as we people from Mount Kenya promised him that we shall vote for him in 2022 we shall surely honour our promise,” the governor said. Click here for the latest political news