Wajir Governor Mohamed Abdi has appealed for reconciliation after a grueling court battle that has left the county deeply divided. The Supreme Court on Friday upheld his election, which had been voided by both the High Court and Court of Appeal. Judges Jackton Ojwang, Mohamed Ibrahim, Smokin Wanjala and Njoki Ndung’u declared Abdi the winner. Chief Justice David Maraga and Justice Isaac Lenaola dissented. The governor hosted a thanksgiving ceremony in Nairobi on Saturday during which he called on Wajir residents to embrace unity and put politics aside for the sake of development. “I want to extended an olive branch to my competitors once more. Former Governor Ahmed Abdullahi and 2017 gubernatorial aspirant Ahmed Muhumed should join hands with us and build our county. Let’s bury our differences and focus on developing our county together for better, ” he appealed. Abdi supported for calls by some leaders for the formation of a committee to arrange a handshake with his opponents. “I am ready to work with my brothers for the betterment of our great county,” he said. But speaking separately, former governor Abdullahi said he does not agree with the court decision but has accepted it. “I would like to take this opportunity to thank my brothers and sisters and friends who stood with us during this protracted legal battle. We went to the courts because we are firm believers in the rule of law and wanted to seek justice on behalf of our supporters,” Abdullahi said. The Friday ruling received mixed reactions in Wajir. “I want to express my disappointment with the ruling. I totally disagree with the judges’ verdict and the reasons they gave for upholding Abdi’s win. But I can assure you we will live to fight another day,” said Hassan Mohamed, Abdullahi’s supporter. But Abdullahi Bare thanked the Supreme Court for the verdict, saying justice had finally been served for the residents. “The court had the final decision and it gave the governor the nod to lead for the next four years. We will fully support his development agenda in whichever way we can. It’s time to grow Wajir and put politics in the back burner,” Siyat Omar said.