A set of South African twins has recently married the same woman on the same day. In the photos shared by Catchvibe Moatshe on Twitter, the twins and their wife were dressed in traditional attires made of animal skin. They were surrounded by family and friends who seem to support their decision. South Africans on Twitter shared their thoughts and concerns about the twins and their young wife. “When you're twins it doesn't automatically mean everything that you do in life should be the same," Ngoako tweeted “Well, this is weird. What's weirder is I found out there is a thing called sologamy. It's a marriage by a person to oneself...”Tommyk tweeted. “I'm better off with just whisky as my wife,” said Gamroji “This is not cool," Truth tweeted “My question is when they have children how will they know which baby belongs to who. Hai, maybe they will play pick it, pick it, point I,” @tlou_makgaleng More “I love twins soo much but these did an odd thing here These twins want to share everything Like literally,"@ Silokazie “Lol... This is a joke, we are in the 21st century," Faris said “Madness,” @NolenceMashego “Zulus can be stubborn in a wrong way sometimes. Smh," said حمد سنة ككك‏ “I have a lot of questions,” Lebogang tweeted Similar kinds of stories to this, that people have heard before is that of men marrying two women on the same day. On December 11 last year in Kenya, a moran in Kajiado married two women at one wedding. Tom Mako alias Junior, 27, comes from a family with a history of polygamy. Such has never happened before in Maa land that stretches from Masimba in Kajiado East to Trans Mara in Narok. In a colourful ceremony at Kisaju, Mako wedded his brides Elizabeth Silamoi, 24, from Enkorika in Mashuuru and Joyce Tikoyian, 23, from Empakasi near Kitengela. Mako met Silamoi while grazing his cows two years ago at her home. A year ago, he met Tikoyian while also grazing his animals in Empakasi. Tikoyian went to school up to Form 4 while Silamoi made it to Form 3. Read more: