Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko on Monday night led a team from his office to Kenyatta National Hospital where they settled a Sh56,000 bill for a woman and her baby who had been detained. After securing the release of the baby and her mother, Agnes Murage, Sonko's team went to a supermarket where they generously shopped for the young family. The Governor also pledged to follow up with the father, Boniface Murage, who was arrested on Monday. "He is only 22 and jobless but the love for his daughter forced him to mess with the law just like any father. He pleaded guilty and the court is set to sentence him tomorrow. The man never involved himself in crime or unlawful deals," the Governor said. However, the court on Tuesday heard that it was not Sonko who cleared the bill but a "concerned citizen". Murage's story touched many Kenyans' hearts with Embakasi East MP Babu Owino also promising to settle the legal and hospital bill. However, Sonko's actions have elicited mixed reactions from Kenyans on social media. Most Kenyans on social media think Sonko was 'pulling a PR stunt' after he posted a recording of his rescue team doing shopping for Agnes. "Kiherehere [busybody] do you have to broadcast the woman in the supermarket, how many women did you leave in hospital struggling, until social media highlights them again when you jump as the saviour," Thiong'o wa Gichuhi posted on Facebook. "Good but keep off the camera si lazima tujue mnamfanyia [it's not a must we know what you did] shopping," Betty Kim said. "Huu ni ujinga [this is being a know it all] employ them in the City Council. Government and people in power looking for PR stunts. Seeking Medicare is right of every Kenyan. Will the man be released?" Steve Kariror asked. "When helping the poor please please leave the camera at home. Thank you." Gideon Sonko posted. In November 2018, Sonko airlifted veteran female boxer Conjestina Achieng' to Nairobi for treatment. The Governor also promised her employment after her rehabilitation. Conjestina was diagnosed with a psychiatric condition which has seen her on and off hospital for a while. Read more:Sonko airlifts Conjestina Achieng' to Nairobi for treatment Click here for the latest political news