When music star Esther Akoth, better known to the public as Akothee, puts on a social media performance, people are going to be paying attention in droves. The artiste is no stranger to controversy. One need only cast their minds back to the last two years, which have seen the artiste become the focus of all the negative press. That's not all. Akothee is the meme-queen to the point where sometimes it seems like she deliberately does absurd things purely for meme potential. The mainstream scene, especially for female performers, always has been somewhat about who is the sexiest and who will show a bit more skin. And we've seen female acts around the world leave almost nothing to the imagination. Being raunchy is probably the quickest way to excellence and success, when it comes to the entertainment space. Akothee might not be the first raunchiest artiste around, but a recent display certainly sparked a storm on social media. Depending on your take of whether or not all publicity is good publicity, this act would be considered a major win for her brand. But there was a group of hidebound tweeps who unrelentingly labelled her a loser. Well, she's already stated her position on the matter and doesn't really care what everyone, including Kenya Film and Classification Board chairman Ezekiel Mutua, thinks about her "stupid stunts". While the attacks could have been unfair and over-the-top, comparing her performance to Beyonce or Cardi B as supporters did was profoundly absurd. It's important to differentiate between artistry and what Akothee does. She built her brand through the notion of promiscuity and indecency, giving the impression that she doesn't really need to justify her actions. More often than not, entertainment watchers will condemn her, but if that is all it takes to promote and push impactless music as well as get paid, then nobody can stop Akothee. Speaking about her music, her shenanigans and constant bad-girl portrayal have outdone her relevance. Hardly does a conversation around her music come up. However, somehow she still holds the power to pull a significant crowd for a performance. And all of this, the constant chaos surrounding her seems to inspire her, and if she's happy living in that space, then that's all that matters.