Did the EACC raid the offices of a CS serving a second term in President Uhuru Kenyatta’s administration? Sources told Corridors that anti-graft sleuths raided the office on Wednesday and carted away documents. The CS is said to have pocketed some money in dubious circumstances. But it’s the clandestine manner in which the EACC is handling the matter that has shocked many. Nobody within the EACC would go on record about the raid. Not even a denial was forthcoming. It’s not clear why CEO Twalib Mbarak wouldn’t respond to queries. It should be in his interest to engage in open and honest conversation with the public. ***** A section of MPs from a Western county are surprised with the change of heart from their governor. They say he has become philanthropic towards them overnight. The man, eyeing a bigger office in 2022, was never known to be generous during his first term. But now he has reportedly sponsored a residential all-expenses-paid strategy meeting with all the MPs at a posh Nairobi hotel for three days. The meeting is said to have kicked off yesterday. Interestingly, none of the lawmakers invited were informed of the agenda. “We’ll just go and hear what he has for us,” an MP said. ***** That two Kisii politicians are obsessed with handouts is no secret. The MPs, and another from the region but elected in the diaspora, have been hopping from one office to the other apparently for handouts. During the last recess, they went into overdrive, given the monetary starvation that comes with reduced House sitting allowances. The trio prefer visiting offices of ministers and idling around, oblivious of the CSs’ busy schedules. In one minister’s office, aides had to close the door to the VIP waiting room to allow the CS escape. Feeling embarrassed two hours after the CS had left, they threw tantrums at the staff, accusing them of disrespect. It has emerged that some CSs openly run away from them. ***** A former lawmaker in the ninth Parliament has now completely cut links with a Nyanza county boss he helped campaign to clinch the seat. He accused the governor of “great betrayal”. According to the informal agreement during and immediately after the polls, the former MP, who was instrumental in rallying his clan to the governor’s side, was to head the County Public Service, which was earmarked for reconstitution. However, the governor is said to have changed his mind last month, leaving the ex-MP in what is now turning into perpetual cold. “Withholding information is the essence of tyranny. Control of the flow of information is the tool of the dictatorship.” — Bruce Coville Click here for
the latest political news