A private company has started supplying farmers in the North Rift with fertiliser after the government stopped importing it this year. The Export Trading Group has started supplying fertiliser following an MoU signed between the North Rift Farmers Union and the company. The farmers signed the agreement to supply DAP fertiliser for planting at a cost of Sh3,000 per 50kg bag, the company was represented by Charles Lewis. The private firm is to supply more than 200,000 bags of fertiliser, especially DAP for use by farmers during the planting season that starts next month. ETG will buy maize from farmers at Sh1,900 per 90kg bag. The company has opened a depot in Eldoret to start purchasing. “ETG has committed itself to provide the fertiliser needed by the farmers and we will also buy maize from them,” Lewis said. “We have moved quickly to provide affordable fertiliser at Sh3,000 per 50kg bag. It’s the best deal for farmers and will also help to stabilise prices,” businessman Bundotich Kiprop, also known as Buzeki, said. He will provide logistical support. Governor Jackson Mandago of Uasin Gishu has faulted the government for planning to use part of the Sh4.5 billion intended for importation of subsidised fertiliser to pay debts owed to the Export Trading Group (ETG). The company has been the main supply of subsidised fertiliser in the country and is still owed millions of shillings by the government. Mandago says the ETG, which has offered to supply fertiliser to farmers at Sh3,000 per bag, should not be a beneficiary of money that had been set aside for subsidised fertiliser. The governor accused the Ministry of Agriculture of frustrating farmers by declining to import subsidised fertiliser, thus benefiting private traders who will exploit farmers. CS for Agriculture Mwangi Kiunjuri told MPs on Monday that the Sh4.5 billion would be diverted to pay the debts at ETG and at the NCPB. Mandago said that is not acceptable and the ministries of agriculture and finance are “cooking up” something that will not benefit farmers. He said the state can still work with fertiliser blending companies in the country to implement the fertiliser subsidies programme and enable farmers to ensure the country is food secure. “They should not tell us about being late to import fertiliser yet we can have local solutions,” Mandago said. The prices are expected to increase beyond Sh4,000 next month but Buzeki says the ETG will fulfill its deal. Buzeki said they would provide quality fertiliser to farmers with all records on testing by Kebs and other bodies available for verification by farmers and other interested parties. “Quality will be a major issue and we will have our certificates displayed for anyone to verify. Farmers must be careful to buy only certified fertiliser,” he said.