The DCI is finalising investigations into claims of bribery during the tendering of three Sh90 billion hydropower dams in Rift Valley. One is the Sh40 billion Itare dam in Nakuru, which stalled after an Italian contractor pulled out. The others are Arror, set to cost Sh38.5 billion and the Sh28 billion Kimwarer dam, both in Elgeyo Marakwet county. Their construction is yet to start because of corruption allegations. Arror and Kimwarer are being implemented through the Kerio Valley Development Authority (KVDA). DCI officers have on a number of occasions visited the sites of the projects during the investigation. Several Cabinet secretaries have been accused of receiving kickbacks to award the tender to a troubled Italian company. ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi on Saturday urged President Kenyatta to sack all those linked to the dam saga. “The Kenyan and Italian governments must come out to explain what is happening with the affected projects, which have stalled due to corruption,” he said. Italian company Cooperativa Muratori e Cementisti – Cmc Di Ravena – which was awarded the contracts, is in financial problems and its ability to undertake the projects has been questioned. Mudavadi, who spoke in Lugari, said the troubled contractor had allegedly been paid more than Sh15 billion, yet no work had started at the sites. At Arror and Kimwarer, the National Land Commission had gazzetted 6,000 acres to be acquired from 9,000 families for the projects. The families will be resettled on land that has been identified in Uasin Gishu and Trans Nzoia. But sources said the DCI probe had led to the stalling of most activities on the projects pending the investigations. “Money has been lost through graft and the President should not keep quiet on such issues,” Mudavadi said. Treasury CS Henry Rotich is among top ranking officials who have been questioned in connection with the two projects in Elgeyo Marakwet. KVDA chairman Jackson Kiptanui and CEO David Kimosop could not be reached for comment. They were not picking calls. Click here for the latest political news