Host Coast Region have landed an easy pool in the girls’ basketball during the Kenya Secondary School Sports Association (KSSSA) national Term One Games set for April 9-14 at the Shimo La Tewa and Shanzu Teachers College respectively in Mombasa County. According to the draw released yesterday by KSSSA, Coast region which has national champions Kaya Tiwi at their disposal, have been pitted alongside Eastern, Nairobi and Central in Pool ‘B’ while Pool ‘A’ has Rift Valley, Western, North Eastern and Nyanza. In boys’ basketball, Central, Coast, North Eastern and Rift Valley will compete in Pool ‘A’ while Pool ‘B’ will pit Nairobi against Nyanza, Eastern and Western. The host region (coast) will field two teams in both rugby 15’s and hockey (both girls and boys) as their neighbors Northern Eastern region will not have teams in those disciplines. In rugby 15’s, Coast region 1 will line up against Central, Nyanza and Nairobi in Pool ‘A’ while Pool ‘B’ will have Coast Region Team 2, Western, Eastern and Rift Valley. In boys’ handball, Nairobi, Rift Valley, Coast and Central will face off in pool ‘A’ while Eastern, Nyanza, Western and North Eastern in a competitive Pool ‘B’ during the five-day event. In girls’ category, Pool ‘A’ features Nyanza, North Eastern, Central and Rift Valley while Pool ‘B’ will be made up of Coast, Nairobi, Western and Eastern. In girls hockey, Pool ‘A’ will feature Coast 1, Eastern, Nyanza and Rift Valley with Pool ‘B’ comprising Coast 2, Western, Central and Nairobi. In boys’ category Pool ‘A’ will pit Coast 1 against Nyanza, Western and Nairobi as Coast 2, Eastern, Rift Valley and Central compete in Pool ‘B’. Nairobi region secretary general, Moses Mbuthia, said schools will select the teams that will represent their regions at the completion of the games set for early next month. He said: “As we speak, the schools are in mid-term and we intend to resume the sub–region games once they are back the first weekend of March. It’s there that they will choose their representatives for the region .” The students from all over the country will battle for bragging rights in rugby 7‘s, handball, basketball, hockey, rugby15’s and swimming. Athletics is expected to be held at a later date at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani.