After opening his goal account in the Caf Confederations Cup on his debut over the weekend, celebrated Gor Mahia forward Dennis Oliech insists that he is on course to hit his target of 28 goals this season. Oliech rose from the bench to magnificently score Gor’s fourth goal in their 4-2 win over 12-time Egyptian champions Zamalek on Sunday at Moi Stadium, Kasarani in the opening match of the Pool ‘D’ to stretch his goal tally to four since his return to the local scene after 16 years So significant was the goal to the former Harambee Stars skipper that he dedicated it to his late elder brother Steven Okumu, who scored against the same opponent at the same venue two decades ago. Prior to the Zamalek clash, Oliech celebrated his three goals scored in the previous matches in an arguably an ordinary way but on Sunday, the former Mathare United man couldn’t contain his joy after putting the ball past the line as he raced towards the stands with his arms fully stretched— a style synonymous with his late brother Okumu. Oliech later revealed the force behind his celebration. “I dedicated the goal to my late brother Okumu and decided to celebrate the way he did against Zamalek. I rose from the bench and I was confident of scoring and I am glad I achieved it. Even though the goal is special to me, I am happy it helped the team ease the pressure of conceding an equaliser and sealed the win.” Oliech had initially missed the playoff fixtures against Cameroon-based New Star Doula since his name had not been registered with Caf. However, Gor hastily made good use of the registration window handed to clubs before the start of the group stages where he was registered alongside the duo of Geoffrey Ochieng and Nicholas Kipkirui. The burly striker has evaded media interviews since his return but after the Zamalek game, he lifted the lid on his target of netting 28 goals in his maiden season with K’Ogalo. He also pleaded with Gor Mahia fraternity to have patience with coach Hasan Oktay who has shown faith in him—giving him the armband in the absence of Haroun Shakava. “I made a promise of scoring 28 goals this season and I am on course of achieving it. I am hopeful and confident by the end of the season I will achieve my target. It’s too early to judge Oktay and I ask everyone to have patience with him,” added Oliech. “I am taking one game at a time and I will respond on the Afcon debate after one month. I still have four more years to play but now I am Keen on helping the club retain the league.”