The omission of Kenya’s all-time top scorer Dennis Oliech from the Harambee Stars provisional squad was met with questions from football stakeholders who were of the opinion that his current form would guarantee him a place in the team. But yesterday, Stars head coach Sebastien Migne sought to explain why he snubbed the Gor Mahia forward despite his rich scoring form since his return to the Kenyan Premier League after 16 years. Oliech pulled out of retirement to sign for Gor early this year where the former Stars captain has notched in four goals for the club. This is despite being used as a substitute in most matches he has played and missing opening rounds of the league matches. His glamorous start of life on the local scene for the second time generated the discussion of whether Migne would consider him for the forthcoming Africa Cup of Nations slated for mid June to July in Egypt but the French coach says the striker must prove why he should be re-admitted to the team he last played for in 2015. Migne said he overlooked Oliech for the Chan qualifier preparations, thanks to the recent injury he suffered which saw him miss Gor’s trip to Angola hence his goal scoring prowess in the matches he had watched him play was slightly below par. However, he insisted that the door was open for him to return to the team should he step up his lethargy in front of the goal. He maintained that the skipper’s role, which Oliech played for a long time previously would remain the preserve of Victor Wanyama and his assistants. “Many have been asking why Oliech was not summoned for the Chan preparations but I could not take risks as he was injured for the last 15 days. I have also watched him for some time and I think he has to improve in front of the goal. “It’s not a matter of scoring penalties. But that doesn’t mean we have slammed the door on him. He is welcome to the team as he is an experienced player. If I need him before Afcon, I will discuss with him for a possible return but not as the team captain,” he said. Meanwhile, the youthful French coach was at pains to express his displeasure with the manner in which the government had delayed his salaries although he maintained that he was comfortable with his job. He revealed that he had received offers after the historic 1-0 win over Ghana but chose to honour his contract with Football Kenya Federation. “I received calls after the Ghana win but I chose to honour my contract with Kenya. I am always happy to work with my players, staff and my president but money has always been the issue. That’s the major challenge so far and I hope a solution will be arrived at by the concerned parties.”