Athletics fraternity in the country is mourning the death of pioneer Kenyan international athlete Nyantika Maiyoro and former Commonwealth Games javelin bronze medallist John Mayaka. Nyantika 88, died on Sunday evening at Chrita Marianne Hospital in Kisii town while Mayaka died on Saturday at Nyamira Level 4 Hospital, according to his daughter Stella Mayaka. Nyantika’s son Kennedy said the retired athlete suffered breathing problems shortly before 8pm and succumbed. He was admitted at the facility three weeks ago suffering from chest problems. When he spoke to The Star from his hospital bed last week, Nyantika asked the government save his land at Isoge Settlement Scheme which he was given by former President Jomo Kenyatta from being grabbed. Last week, National Olympic Committee of Kenya and Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i pledged to clear Nyantika’s hospital bills after the family appealed for help. During President Uhuru Kenyatta’s visit to Kisii last week, Nyantika’s plight was highlighted with Nyaribari Chache MP Richard Tong’i tasked to make a follow up. “I have learned with great shock the double tragedy in Gusiiland, which has robbed us of John Mayaka, who was a great javelin thrower for Kenya and Armed Forces, and Nyantika Maiyoro,” said Tuwei. “I join the athletics family during this sad moment and urge fellow athletes to join the families of the departed colleagues in prayers during this sad moment,” he said. Former NOCK President Kipchoge Keino, who came hot on the heels of Nyantika’s era, said it was sad to lose pioneer athletes like Nyantika in such circumstances. “It’s shocking to hear the double tragedy in Gusiiland. They did a lot for the country. I send my personal condolences and those of pioneer athletes to the family, friends and relatives of the late Nyantika,” said Keino. “We are saddened to learn of the demise of our pioneer Olympian, Nyantika Maiyoro. This death has robbed Kenya of an illustrious legend and very inspiring athlete who placed Kenya at the global map and opened the way for our athletics and, indeed sporting prowess,” said Nock president Paul Tergat. “We are mourning great athletes who rose through difficulty to the apex of their careers during those formative years of Kenyans sports, scaling the heights of global athletics success,” AK Nyanza South chairman, Peter Angwenyi, said in his message of condolence. AK PRO Evans Bosire also condoled with the families of Nyantika and Mayaka: “It’s very said time for us to lose two heroes. May the almighty father guide the families of mzee Nyantika and mzee Mayaka during this sad moment.” Mayaka, born on in 1948 in Nyamira County, died on Saturday morning at the Nyamira Level Five Hospital, his daughter, Stella Mayaka, confirmed. Mayaka participated at the 1974 Commonwealth Games in Christchurch, New Zealand, and 1978 in Edmonton. His best throws were 77.56m in Christchurch and 70m in Edmonton. Maiyoro first represented Kenya together with Kanuti Sum and high jumper Joseph Leresae at the 1956 Olympic Games in Melbourne, Australia when the country was still a British colony. He was seventh in 5, 000m. He went on to represent Kenya in several other championships.