Their is no limit to what Kisumu All Stars can achieve. Those were the sentiments of coach Francis Oduor despite his team conceding a last minute goal to draw 1-1 with National Super League leaders Ushuru. “We are disappointed with not taking three points from this game which I believe we controlled very well. We go home with our heads held high and I strongly believe having worked with these boys, we can achieve our objectives. We will take one game at a time and continue to work even harder for the remainder of the season,” said Oduor whose side remain in the top five with 24 points from 13 matches four less than Ushuru. Barrack Odhiambo’s stoppage time strike for the taxmen canceled out Moses Okumu’s first half hearder for All Stars. With little goalmouth action in the opening 10 minutes, the game was not easy on the eye with passes going astray as the weather-beaten Ruaraka ground wrecked havoc. Ushuru looked to weaponise the set piece prowess of Evans Makori but, more often than not, his deliveries failed to get the target. All Stars were often dangerous down the left wing seeking to exploit the spaces left by the overlapping moves of Fan Ngaira. It was no surprise then when the enterprising Seth Oyugi sent a precise cross that was met by a towering header from Okumu to give the visitors the lead. Ushuru responded by sending in Patrick Macharia for Luis Masika but the All Stars rearguard held firm to go into the break with their noses in front. Predictably, the second half was more or less attack versus defence with All Stars looking to maintain their lead as the taxmen sought a way back into the game. Jeremiah Wanjala had a chance to level matters for Ken Kenyatta’s men but he could not find the net and was later replaced by Sunga Alex. There were even better chances for skipper Barrack Odhiambo and Makori as well as Sunga but they were thwarted by All Stars custodian Geoffrey Were. Oduor, sensing that his team were in danger of conceding a leveller as pressure mounted, he sent on Billy Agai for Dennis Amunga for the last quarter. At Camp Toyoyo, Administration Police moved to the top half of the 18-team league after thrashing basement club Kangemi All Stars courtesy of goals from Eric Omondi, Abbas Bakari and Hillary Ochieng. AP now have 20 points from 13 matches while Kangemi remain rooted at the bottom with a paltry four points.