A youthful Jubilee politician who was abducted on Friday has returned home. Mohamed Farid Ali, a law student at the University of Nairobi, was reunited with his family on Sunday morning. He had been abducted on Friday at around 2pm by unknown people at a cyber cafe near Oshwal Academy in Nyali, Mombasa. "They asked for money. I had Sh50,000 on me and they took it and my watch," Mohammed said. He said he was then drugged and he lost consciousness. "They put a scarf laced with some substance which made me feel dizzy and then sleepy. I lost consciousness because I woke up a while later to find myself in the boot of a car," Mohammed said. The politician unsuccessfully vied for the Mjambere MCA seat in 2017 on a Jubilee ticket. He was beaten by ODM's Fahad Kassim. He is set to marry his longtime girlfriend on February 15. Mohamed said he noticed a change of weather after he was taken into a dark room. "I was blindfolded. My abductors asked me to call my family and demand some money for my release," he narrated. He pleaded with them to release him saying he comes from a humble background. "I think they had mistaken me for somebody else," he said. The abductors blindfolded him again at around 7pm on Saturday, bundled him into a car, before dropping him somewhere along Thika Road. He went and reported the matter at Kasarani police station. Haki Africa had on Saturday called on police to ensure his safe return. "If the police are involved in Mohamed's abduction, they are required by law to inform his family where he is. If they are not, they should search for him and ensure his safe return," Haki Africa director Hussein Khalid said. Jubilee politicians Suleiman Shahbal, who had worked with Mohammed during the 2017 campaigns, had expressed shock on his abduction. "It is frightening and worrying," he said. "No parent should go through what Mohammed's parents are going through,' he had said in a statement on Saturday. Mohammed's father Farid Ali Sharrif said he is thankful his first born has returned home safe. "I thank Haki Africa and the police for standing with me," he said. Haki Africa director Yusuf Abubakar said the incident shows there are gaps in the security of the country which must be addressed. Mombasa county police commander Johnston Ipara said it is always not right to jump into conclusion and blame the police for everything that goes wrong. He said the police are not in the business of abducting people. "There are issues at play. Read between the lines," Ipara told the Star on Sunday morning.