Bill Gates and his wife Melinda are perhaps the most consequential philanthropists of our time. The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, along with about 1,500 employees, spends $4 billion annually in developing countries on numerous initiatives, including health, education and agriculture. In the 2019 Annual Letter titled ‘We didn’t see this coming,’ Bill and Melinda reveal that the number one surprise is that Africa is the youngest continent. Bill and Melinda note that the global median age is on the rise everywhere,except in Africa where the median age is just 18 years. That Africa is the youngest continent if you take into account the fact that gains in child survival have not been accompanied by a commensurate decline in fertility levels. Hence, in Africa women are not having fewer number of children. Fertility is now 2.5 per woman globally. Africa remains the region with the highest fertility at 4.7 children per woman. According to the United Nations, fertility in Africa is projected to decline to 3.9 children per woman by 2030 and to 3.1 children per woman by 2050. It is not surprising that the median age in Africa will increase just marginally to 25 years. Hence, the shear might of Africa’s reproductive energy will not abate in the next couple of decades. This also means that the number of young Africans will continue to rise. It is projected that the number of Africans aged 15 to 24 will double in 2055 from 226 million in 2015. Moreover, it is projected that over 20 million young Africans will join the workforce every year for the next 30 years. Hence, with the largest workforce on the planet, Africa has the opportunity to shift the balance of global economic growth. But this is inevitable. We have work to do. We have work to do because at least half of youth between the ages of 15 and 17 in sub-Saharan Africa are not in school. We have work to do because across sub-Saharan Africa nine million girls will never attend school. We have work to do because the last 15 years of impressive GDP growth have failed to produce quality jobs for Africa’s youth. The abundant pool of potential talent is in fact a double-edged sword. Africa’s massive youth bulge could be a curse not a boon. Africa’s future is at risk if the youth don’t have the education, skills and jobs that pay a decent wage. The explosion of the informal sector and the rising tide of low-paying jobs is creating a dangerous vortex of a poor underclass. The swelling ranks of the unemployed, underemployed and working poor do not bode well for Africa’s future. Africa’s future depends less on superhighways and high-speed trains. Africa’s future depends on healthy children who have access to quality education and well-paying decent jobs. Health and education are the twin turbo engines of equitable economic growth. Without equitable access to quality health and education Africa will be a mediocre continent even beyond the 22nd Century. Alex O Awiti is the Vice Provost of Aga Khan University