Vetting of Governor Mike Sonko’s five nominees for executive positions is among key issues awaiting MCAs when they resume duty today. The MCAs took a two-month recess on December 6. The last session was stormy, MCAs voted to impeach Speaker Beatrice Elachi and physically tried to eject her. She was reinstated but hasn’t been working. The EACC says it will investigate the ruffian MCAs after a court rejected their argument that the EACC can’t touch them. The majority leader said the house had moved on from last year’s drama and will focus on its mandate. The well-behaved MCAs are also expected to approve at least four bills. Majority leader Abdi Guyo yesterday said the third session comes with an increased workload. Atop the agenda will be passing the sessional paper of the Urban Housing Renewal and Regeneration Policy tabled in December last year. The assembly will also consider two key policy documents on the Nairobi City County Water and Sanitation Policy. Guyo said vetting of the nominated candidates for the various CECs positions will be next week. “The names will be tabled today, then, next week, we shall start off with the vetting,” Guyo said. Last month, Sonko nominated five women to his cabinet . He nominated Dr Stella Bosire for Health executive, Winfred Kathangu for the finance docket, Lucia Mulwa for Education, Sanjeev Kaur for Environment and Pauline Kahiga for the Public Service docket. “Our plan is to pass at least five policies, 15 bills ( minus the Finance Bill) and adopt many reports on key issues,” Guyo said. He said committees’ capacity was being increased. There is a line-up of three crucial bills: the Nairobi City County Public Road Transport and Traffic Management Bill 2018, the Nairobi City County Tobacco Control Bill 2018 and the Nairobi City County Trade Licensing Bill, 2018. The three bills were tabled in December last year and in the first reading stage. Guyo, who is also the Matopeni ward representative, said the house will pick up from where it left with pending motions, statements and reports from committees. Regarding the ongoing case on impeached Speaker Beatrice Elachi, Guyo said the delay of the court case is what is hindering the assembly from electing a speaker. “We hope the case can be closed so the assembly can get a free hand to elect a substantive speaker,” he said. But if the case drags on, the acting speaker can legally act for the remainder of the term Guyo said. The majority leader said the assembly is within the law and the house cannot elect a new speaker if the case is still active in court.