Is a Cabinet Secretary mischievously leaking government secrets? A section of CSs are reported to be unhappy with one of their own who they accuse of secretly handing out information to the media in exchange for headlines that disparage his colleagues. A source has told corridors that the unhappy CSs are planning to formally complain to President Uhuru Kenyatta over the uncouth and disturbing behaviour. The CS is also accused of negatively profiling colleagues. ****** Is a certain governor working on behest of top government officials. The low key governor shocked many observers with his latests threats to punish a top company in his county. Corridors has learnt that the new courage is meant to sooth his master who has given him demands that the county must take back a parcel of land through proxies in a new lease arrangement as part of paying back for helping him become a governor and for future guarantees of government jobs. But it seems the company in question has its tentacles deep in government and has told the governor off and dared him to go ahead promising him the mother of all battles. ****** There is a rush by top operatives in the national government targeting community and public in counties as they amass wealth. The new grabbing spree is said to have affected mostly Murang’a, Kiambu and Nyandarua counties where some high flying national government officials collude with cartels at the troubled National Land Commission to allocate themselves huge parcels of public space. The officers are going to the level of destroying documents and replacing them with fake ones to make the transfer ‘legal’. ****** Is there interference from the house on the hill in Law Society of Kenya male representative to the Judicial Service Commission controversy? Well, LSK is now divided down the middle even as lobbying intensifies. A small bird whispered to corridors that there must be a hand from the high office especially due to the fact that"elections in Kenya are not won but rigged." LSK among other things recommend to the President persons for appointment as Judges.The tussle threatening the society is said to be power intrigues associated with 2022 elections which is anticipated will be settled in courts. ****** That audits expose financial impropriety is not news. What is worrying that a number of latest reports from the office of the auditor general have given certain state agencies a clean bill of health on their accounts yet the same have complaints of corruption against them. One wonders whether the audits are conducted as a mere formality as they have failed to pinpoint the flaws, some of which have been in the public domain. Only time will tell of what goes on behind the scenes before an audit is published for Kenyans’ consumption. Click here for the latest
political news