The eagerly awaited match is finally here as champions KCB take on Kabras in a highly explosive Kenya Cup showdown today at the Impala Club starting 4pm. The match, which will be televised live on Bamba Sports, will be contrast of styles between the two sides who have contested the Kenya Cup final three times in the last four seasons. The bankers have made five changes for the eagerly awaited clash against the sugar millers. Kenya Simbas’ skipper Davis Chenge, who started at second row last week against Impala returns to his favoured position of flanker alongside Andrew Amonde and Peter Waitere. Francis Mwita will partner with Oliver Mangeni at lock. Ken Moseti starts at fly-half in place of Shaban Ahmed who drops to the bench with Stafford Abeka starting on the wing in place of Kenya Sevens skipper Jacob Ojee who has travelled with the Kenya Sevens squad for the Las Vegas and Vancouver Sevens tournaments. Moses Amusala makes the bench alongside Nelson Nyandat, Brian Nyikuli, Samuel Asati, Isaac Njoroge and Griffin Musila. KCB coach Curtis Olago expects a stern test from the league leaders and says that history will count for nothing in today’s encounter. “We have a growing rivalry with them and we have beaten before. However, they have a new coach and are playing well and we must match them up-front and take our chances,” added Olago Kabras coach Henley Du Plessis said the game will be won up front by the forwards. “This is arguably our toughest test of the season as we are playing the champions. However, we have trained well for this week with emphasis on defence and our line-out.” Du Plessis will rely on Uganda Cranes skipper Asman Mugerwa, skipper Max Adaka, Dan Sikuta and George Nyambua in the forwards with Brian Tanga, South African Logan Basson at fly-half centre. Nick Brasa and fullback Phillip Wokorach will be the key actors in the back-line. Since promotion to the top tier of Kenya Cup, the sugar millers have never beaten the bankers in eight meetings. The match will be preceded by the Impala vs Homeboyz match at 2pm at he same venue with both teams chasing a playoff spot. Nondies welcome Blak Blad at the Nairobi Polo Club as Nakuru host Mwamba. Mean Machine welcome Menengai Oilers at the University of Nairobi grounds with Quins entertaining Strathmore Leos tomorrow at the RFUEA ground. Fixtures Today Impala vs Homeboyz (2pm live) Impala Club KCB V Kabras (4pm live) Impala Club Nondies v Blak Blad (4pm) Polo Club Nakuru v Mwamba (4pm) NAC Mean Machine v Oilers (4pm) UON Tomorrow Quins vs Strathmore Leos (4pm) RFUEA ground