Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua and Senator Boniface Kabaka say hardline party politics is hurting development in Ukambani. They want Kitui, Machakos and Makueni MCAs to join their governors in ensuring residents benefit from growth projects. The leaders said on Wednesday that key development programmes have stalled because of unnecessary political infighting. They accused MCAs of pursuing vested political interests. They spoke at the burial of prominent businessman Paul Mbole in Kalama, Machakos constituency. Mutua was elected on the Maendeleo Chap Chap ticket, while most of the MCAs are from Wiper. “The problem we have, and which has led us to where we are at the moment, is the practice of hard-line politics by a section of leaders. Many have been socialised into glorifying poverty through sabotage,” Mutua said. The region is yearning for improved livelihoods but is trapped in archaic politics of witch-hunt, he said. Mutua defended his newfound unity with Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu and Makueni’s Kivutha Kibwana. He said they want to empower residents. “Some people started panicking when Prof Kibwana, Governor Ngilu and I came together. They have now hatched a plot to divide us, but we’re telling them they will not succeed. The Kamba community needs unity through development and that is exactly what we will deliver,” he said. Ngilu was elected on the Narc ticket, Kibwana on the Wiper ticket but he has been in the party’s bad books of late. They have face a backlash from MCAs over strained relations with Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka. Mutua dismissed claims that their unity was aimed at sabotaging Kalonzo’s 2022 presidential ambitions. Senator Kabaka cautioned MCAs against engaging in partisan politics. He urged them to have residents’ interests at heart while discharging their duties. “Our people are suffering because of party politics. Let them [MCAs] know we are not stupid. We know the game. What our people want is development,” he said. The lawmaker accused the MCAs of failing to approve budgets. “Things are not moving and many people are asking why. When our hospitals lack drugs, people are quick to blame the governor. But truth is MCAs refuse to approve such budgets to pave the way for delivery of services,” he said. Former Machakos Senator Johnson Muthama, who also attended the burial, appealed to Ukambani leaders to shelve their selfish interests and support Kalonzo’s 2022 bid. He said no member of the community can match Kalonzo’s political stature. “Since Kalonzo assumed the region’s mantle from Mulu Mutisya, no other Kamba politician has risen to his level. It will only be prudent that we all respect and support him.” Muthama urged families living in towns outside the region to return home during the national census so they boost the counties’ numbers. Resource allocation to the devolved units is partly pegged on population.