There seems to be an increased appetite for collection of personal data by the government. Nearly all government services require you to provide your personal data and most recently and worryingly, your biometric data. Biometric data is unique identifier information that includes fingerprints, DNA, facial recognition, voice waves and any other information that is tied to your physical, physiological or behavioural characteristics. The department of Immigration, Border Control and Registration of Persons has always collected fingerprint, thumb impressions and facial images from citizens. Biometric information became popular in the last general election, when the IEBC acquired rights to citizens' fingerprints through the use of biometric kits for registration of voters. Previously, biometric data was collected to obtain a national ID, driving licence, passport, a voter’s card or permit to own a firearm and only covered fingerprint and thumb impressions and, in the case of a passport, retina and iris patterns. Through the amendment to the Registration of Persons Act, the scope of biometric data that can be collected by government agencies has expanded to include fingerprints, hand geometry, earlobe geometry, retina and iris patterns, voice waves and DNA. In addition, information about your physical location with specific details such as land reference number, plot number and house number will be collected. The reason advanced for the increased scope of biometric data has been to fight crime and, more specifically, terrorism. Another reason is that such data is collected in other jurisdictions, which is not a valid reason as policies and regulations need to be guided by need and necessity and not necessarily copying other jurisdictions. The collection of citizens' biometric data raises pertinent questions on the importance of that data as well as its protection. It should be clear that all personal data absolutely belongs to the data subject. Biometric data is classified as special data, which requires a higher level of protection in the General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR) that came into force in the EU last May. The GDPR is the current best practice standard across the world on protection of personal data and privacy and locally was the guiding factor in drafting of the Data Protection Bill and Policy that are awaiting Cabinet approval. The Constitution guarantees the right of every citizen to privacy. This means your personal data, more so your biometric data, should be treated with utmost care and should under no circumstances be misused or be allowed to fall into the wrong hands. The established key principles of data protection require that personal data should not be collected or processed without the data subject’s consent, that the data collected should not be used for a purpose other than the reason for collection, data collected should only be limited to what is necessary for the purpose, that the data should be collected for a lawful purpose and that the entity collecting such data should be transparent on the use of that data. Currently, Kenya does not have a data protection law in place, and this is the one fact that is not mentioned when drawing comparisons with other countries, most of which have elaborate data protection laws in place, to justify collection of personal data and specifically, biometric data from citizens. Without data protection laws in place, your personal data is likely to be misused. Amongst all the agencies authorised to collect personal data, none of them have a disclosed Data Protection Policy for its staff. This means that the officers handling your data do not have an obligation to protect it. There is a high chance of your data being left unsecured in various filing cabinets and computers across government offices or being sold to criminals by unscrupulous officers with no consequence which acts are a violation of the right to privacy. Even worse is that there is a chance your data could be used to place you at a scene of crime that you know nothing about. With your DNA, fingerprints and facial features information placed at such a scene, proving your innocence is next to impossible. There is no disclosure by the government on what measures will be taken to secure your biometric data. No information on whether data collected by different agencies will be consolidated into one database. In fact, there is no disclosure of the reasons why the enumerated biometric data is absolutely necessary and for which specific services. The intention to use biometric data in the prevention of crime, and more so terrorism, is noble until you examine how this will be achieved. This data will very likely be processed and used to profile citizens and anyone entering the country. Without legislation in place to control the extent of processing, this could lead to negative profiling, which is a violation of the constitutional right to non-discrimination. There is a risk that all the data that the amendment Act is allowing to be collected could be used to profile citizens along tribal lines with various negative consequences such as denial of services, association with certain activities such as crime, political unrest. For example, for a long time, the citizens from the Somali community have been unnecessarily profiled as most likely to commit acts of terrorism and misuse of their data could further fuel this profiling. It is quite clear that the collection of biometric data should be held off until there is in place legislation on data protection. Without this law the Amendment to the Registration of Persons Act opens the door to blatant violation of citizens’ constitutional rights. Technology lawyer