Neighbouring counties Embu, Nyeri and Embu will benefit when Kirinyaga hosts the sixth devolution conference between March 4 and 8. Kirinyaga does not have enough boarding facilities to accommodate the guests. Other counties are expected to provide accommodation and catering services for more than 6,000 guests who will attend the event at Kirinyaga University in Kutus town. Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru has told hoteliers to give quality services for guests to enjoy their stay. President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga are expected to attend the conference. Waiguru said it is not only the big hotels that will benefit, but small hotels can also make money by boosting their businesses and providing catering services to the guests from 47 counties. "We are not talking about big hotels only, even our medium level hotels will benefit by providing catering services to our guests during the period. They can make a killing if they position themselves well," she said. Waiguru encouraged guests to sample tourists sites in Kirinyaga such as God's Bridge (Ndarasa ya Ngai), the Castle Lodge at the bottom of Mt Kenya in Gichugu constituency, and the Mt Kenya peaks. Most high-end hotels in Kirinyaga are located in Sagana, Ndia and Mwea constituencies which have a serene view of mother nature including the major rivers in the county. Waiguru told the Star through her communication office that her government has put measures in place to ensure the guests will have a memorable. She said this will encourage the guests to return as tourists after the annual conference. The county has started engaging hotel owners on security issues to ensure guests' safety, Waiguru said. Kirinyaga does not have enough boarding facilities to accommodate the guests. That is why Embu, Murang'a and Nyeri will chip in. The last devolution conference was held in Kakamega when Waiguru was the Council of Governors' deputy chair. Last month, Waiguru unsuccessfully contested the post of chairperson. Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya won the race. The Kirinyaga government has directed owners of kiosks along the major roads to relocate ahead of the conference since the county wants to beautify the areas. Cabro parking slots are being laid in Kutus, Kagio and Kianyaga towns. Contractors have been told to speed up construction work. Click here for the latest political news    