The Education ministry and the TSC have withdrawn a circular that lowered the entry requirement for P1 teacher training colleges to D+. This has dealt a blow to candidates in marginalised areas who scored D+ and hoped to be teachers. The entry grade remains at C plain. CS Amina Mohamed issued the legal notice that directed that even those with the grade could be admitted to the colleges. The Teachers Service Commission - the teachers’ employer - opposed the decision, arguing that it would hurt the quality of tutors and ruin education. The TSC said it would not employ such teachers and sought help from the courts. In November, Attorney-General Kihara Kariuki said Amina had no such powers. He  said only the TSC has the mandate to prescribe entry qualifications. Yesterday, the ministry and the TSC said they had agreed to withdraw the notice. Their representatives appeared before Justice Chacha Mwita. Oyocho Timonn, for the TSC said they reached an out-of-court settlement. Read: Lowering entry grades to teaching colleges harmful The counties whose students were to benefit are Baringo, Garissa, Isiolo, Kajiado, Kwale, Kilifi, Lamu, Marsabit, Mandera, Narok, Samburu, Taita Taveta, Tana River, Turkana, Wajir, West Pokot and parts of Homa Bay. The consent filed in court states that the Legal Notice No. 118 of 2018 purporting “to give powers to National Qualifications Authority to review the standards of education and training persons entering the teachers’ service has been revoked”. The TSC had also argued that the authority set up by Amina had no mandate to decide the entry grades for those joining teaching. “The commission takes a serious view of the attempt by the authority to arrogate itself the powers to review the standards of education and training of persons entering the teaching service, and proposing to lower the minimum entry requirements,” it said. “Lowering of minimum entry standards for teachers is a serious affront to national development and may be a recipe for failed future economy.” The Kenya National Qualifications Authority lowered qualifications for admission to teacher training colleges for diploma and certificate courses. Under the changes, students with at least C- in KCSE would be admitted for diploma programmes, while P1 required a minimum of D+ instead of C plain. Amina argued that the changes were to address the shortage of teachers, especially in northern Kenya. She said admitting 2006-2018 candidates with D+ would ensure every child had equal access to education as guaranteed by the Constitution Amina said her action was based on the affirmative action. She cited regional differences, saying it was impossible to assess students the same way without equity. The CS said students in 17 marginalised areas would benefit. Read: Amina gets 14 days to end teachers’ college D+ row Click here for
the latest political news