Two Kilifi police officers tomorrow will be charged with the murder of a 17-year-old youth. Katana Kazungu died after being shot at a close range, in a suspected extrajudicial killing. Malindi High Court judge Weldon Korir ordered that Simeon Ayodo and Amos Kipsang’ be detained at Malindi police station. Katana Kazungu’s death on June 26, 2018, was highly controversial and lobby groups accused police of trying to cover up. The duo will undergo mental tests before being charged on Valentine’s Day, with murdering the Standard 7 pupil of Ndatani primary school. Korir declined to release them on bond, though defence lawyer Matete Kogoto who urged bail since they were police officers who surrendered after seeing arrest warrants through the media. Read: Two cops arraigned for murder of 17-year-old Kilifi boy Outside the law courts, family members of the slain student turned emotional and wept after learning the officers had been detained. Kazungu Fondo, 55, the deceased’s father, and his wife, Ndoko Kazungu 30, could not hold back their tears as they condemned the killing. Muslims for Human Rights and InformAction gathered details that were forwarded to the Independent Police Oversight Authority which asked the Director of Public Prosecutions to prefer charges. Muhuri intends to apply to be enjoined as an interested party. “I will not see him again, I am so bitter about it. Justice should prevail,” said Fondo, the father of six. Details of Kazungu’s death are chilling. An autopsy at Mombasa County Level 5 Teaching and Referral Hospital revealed he was shot in the back at a close range. He and another six people were pushing a lorry that was stuck in the mud in Tsangatsini village, Kaloleni. The vehicle was transporting stones from a nearby quarry and police claimed they were informed it had been stolen. Muhuru said more than five officers, including Ayodo and Kipsang’, are said to have ambushed the seven youths, allegedly openeing fire, killing Katana on the spot. See also: Police seek second autopsy for Kilifi boy killed in caning incident Click
here for the latest political news