Last week the government announced the start of the mandatory registration of all citizens through the National Integrated Identity Management System. This is in line with the Amendment of Registration of Persons Act and citizens will be issued with a unified identity called Huduma Namba. The registration is intended to establish a central master population register that will be the authentic single source of information on a person. However, there already exists such a system—the Integrated Population System (IPRS) under the mandate of the Ministry of Interior and Co-ordination of National government, the same ministry implementing the Huduma Namba. A look at the Immigration website reveals that IPRS is already considered a ‘one stop shop for all the population data and the single source of truth for population of all Kenyan and foreign resident(sic) in Kenya’. The government currently holds sensitive personal data of citizens through the IPRS. The packaging of the new registration as collecting new information from citizens is misleading to the extent that all persons holding any form of personal identification are already registered under the IPRS. The government could in fact issue the number without requiring fresh registration. The incessant collection of citizens' personal data raises the question of how much data is too much data and violates the constitutional right to privacy. The Constitution states that personal information ought not be collected without a specific necessary purpose and to meet a specific obligation for which that data has not been collected before. Article 31(c) of the Constitution specifically states that personal information should not be unnecessarily required or revealed. As discussed in last week’s article, Kenya does not have a data protection law. As such the collection of sensitive personal data without any protection measures in place is a gross violation of citizens' right to privacy. It poses various dangers regarding misuse and abuse of this data. The ongoing registration extends to children as young as six years old. International best practices on data protection require that data belonging to children be treated as special and special circumstances be applied to protect that information. NIIMS, by failure to disclose protection measures, does not meet this threshold. This amounts to a violation of the rights of children. It is not clear how NIIMS will positively enhance the lives of children, how their data will be protected from misuse and abuse, and what services they shall be getting through the registration. A more ominous violation of the right to privacy is through the involvement of MasterCard to facilitate payment for public services. This clearly shows that all the personal data collected will be passed on to MasterCard, a third party. The government has not disclosed what obligations MasterCard has to protect your personal data, to what extent it can use that data and whether the data is shared for financial gain to the government, given the obvious financial incentive to MasterCard. As a basic principle in protection of personal data, you, the data subject, have a right to consent or opt out of having your data shared with a third party. You also should be informed upfront of the intention to share your data with a third party and of the reasons such data is shared. Citizens who fail to register have been warned that they will not be able to access public services they are entitled to under the Constitution. The Constitutional Court, in its previous determinations, has established the principle that laws with far-reaching consequences and of importance to public interest ought to be enacted through substantive legislation and not through amendment Acts. That these serious provisions with potential to deny citizens of their right to access essential public services were enacted into law through an amendment Act is a violation of the Constitution. The Constitution requires public participation for legislation before it is passed into law. The Constitutional Court has held that violation of this provision is unconstitutional. The threshold for public participation is that all legislation must be subject to public participation and sufficient notice given to the public to give their views on the proposed legislation. NIIMS was passed into law under the Statute Law (Miscellaneous Amendment) Act No. 18 of 2018 assented into law on 31st December 2018. In passing the Amendment Act into Law, the public was not given reasonable notice and opportunity to give views on the provisions especially considering the far-reaching consequences, touching on fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens. With NIIMS, public services will be paid for through the prepaid card. It is not clear what the position of other methods of payment and citizens wishing to utilise them will be. If payment for services is exclusively through the MasterCard, this amounts to financial exclusivity, which is discriminatory. Technology lawyer