Environmental activists have raised concerns over the rehabilitation of the decommissioned Kibarani dumpsite in Mombasa. The dumpsite, which has been in existence for more than 50 years,is being turned into a recreational park by the Mombasa county government in collaboration with the national government and other stakeholders. Part of the land the site sits on had been grabbed with. Some of the grabbers have reclaimed part of the Makupa creek, interfering with the marine ecosystem. Last week, United Nations Environmental Programme officials toured the site in the company of Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho, Environment PS Noor Ismail and Nema director general Geoffrey Wahungu. They gave the project the thumbs up. However, environmental activists on Thursday said the county and Nema have not adequately addressed certain issues. “We are not so much concerned about the planting of trees at the site. What we are worried about is what is being done to detoxify the sea which has been poisoned over the years,” Benson Wemali said. He is the executive director of Active Environmental Team. Wemali said the creek has been reduced in size due to reclamation and the sea, once a source of livelihood for people living around the area including Moroto, Shimanzi and Kibarani slums, can no longer support marine life. “The biggest problem is not the beautification that is being done. The biggest problem is the creek that has been interfered with,” Wemali said. The decision to decommission the dumpsite was made early last year and dumping was stopped before levelling and compacting was done.The area was then covered with quarry dust and soil and currently a process of phytorelegation is ongoing where natural vegetation is allowed to grow. The work is part of the bigger Mombasa regeneration project that Joho asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to extend to Mombasa following the Nairobi regeneration project. Haki Yetu organization director Fr Gabriel Dolan told the Star although reclaiming the dumpsite and turning it into a public park is a laudable project, more emphasis should be directed towards the repossession of all grabbed land. In June last year, Uhuru ordered the National Land Commission to revoke all the titles to the land grabbed at the dumpsite. The NLC revoked the titles but it is not clear if all the grabbed land has been returned to the county. Joho said the rehabilitation process is progressing well and that in six months the new park will be ready, redefining Mombasa as top tourist destination. The dumpsite had been an eyesore to tourists getting into Mombasa and stakeholders had raised the matter many times. “If you come back here after six months, you will never believe this is Kibarani,” Joho said. He said the county was in consultation with stakeholders on what to do.