Bob Marley's 74th birthday anniversary on Wednesday is being marked by a day of activities and a grand reggae concert at Ravous Lounge in Nairobi. According to the Rastafarian Society Chairman Moses Mbugua, close to 300 true Rastafarians have assembled at a hall In Mathare. They are holding discussions on the global impact of reggae, to Rastafarianism and Marley’s philosophy. They will later head out for the Concert at 5 pm. The concert will feature a myriad of reggae entertainers from Kenya who will perform until 7 pm. From 7 pm to 6 am only Bob Marley's songs will be played. "Reggae month is officially here and we couldn't ask for a better start to the month than the celebration of the King of Reggae’s birthday. Bob Marley embodied everything we would like to promote for reggae month: he was about peace, love and bringing people together through his music, regardless of race or gender," Mbugua said. KOT have taken to social media to celebrate Bob Marley.With many quoting Marley's inspirational messages to society. "Money is numbers and numbers never end. If it takes money to be happy, your search for happiness will never end.” — Bob Marley" tweeted Janet Machuka "If She's Amazing, she won't be easy. If She's easy, she won't be Amazing. If She's worth it, you won't give up, if you give up you're not worthy". -Bob Marley"@Sunday Wanjihia "People want to listen to a message, word from Jah. This could be passed through me or anybody, I am not a leader but a messenger. The words of the songs, not the person, is what attracts people"-Bob Marley," said raggaeinvasion "Emancipate yourselves from mental slavery, None but ourselves can free our minds" ~Bob Marley," Droolelm. tweeted "Don't gain the world and lose your soul, wisdom is better than silver or gold" - Bob Marley Today we remember Bob Marley, he would have been 74. Long live the spirit of Ras Nesta One love", said Sparks. "Just because you're happy it doesn't mean that the day is perfect but that you've looked beyond its imperfections"- Robert Nesta Marley Bob Marley (6th February 1945-11th May 1981"Muranga Patriot tweeted "Live for yourself and live in vain Live for others and live again #BOB MARLEY... KING of reggae EARTHSTRONG"Oliver Gichira wrote “One good thing about music, when it hits you, you feel no pain.” ~ Bob Marley" tweeted Mzilikazi wa Africa "You never know how strong you are, Until being strong is your only choice. Bob Marley"@Ramblingsloa International artists have also taken to social media to wish the legendary Bob Marley a happy birthday "Happy birthday Bob #bobmarley #jahbless," wrote DJ M.E.G "Blessed Earth Strong ℳr ℳarley...... Your ℳusic Forever Lives On!!!", Sarapinky said. "The greatest legacy one can pass on to one’s children and grandchildren is not money or other material things accumulated in one’s life, but rather a legacy of character and faith. #HaileSelassie #BobMarley #OneLove," Mary Jane tweeted. Bob Marley's Legacy still lives on, thanks largely to the messages of love and unity that his music espoused. In November 2018, Reggae was added to a list of international cultural treasures which the United Nations deemed worthy of protection and promotion. The music, which grew out of Jamaica in the 1960s thanks to artists like Toots and the Maytals, Peter Tosh and Bob Marley, was added to the collection due to its "intangible cultural heritage". Reggae is "cerebral, socio-political, sensual and spiritual," said Unesco. It has "penetrated all corners of the world," added a Jamaican spokesperson. Read: UNESCO adds Reggae music to global cultural heritage list Click here for the latest political news.