What has been reported in the media for the last few days on failing projects clearly indicates that some government officials have turned mega projects into cash cows at the expense of Kenyans who are yearning for services. What we have witnessed is the worst level of impunity and the individuals responsible should be punished. We cannot be allocating monies to projects meant to develop the country, only for some people to pocket the money, thinking they will go free. This is very sad. It is clear there is rot that investigative agencies — the Directorate of Criminal Investigations and the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission — should unearth and tell taxpayers what really transpired. Those found culpable should face the law regardless of their position in government. Cabinet secretaries and principal secretaries should be held responsible. Kenyans are not getting value for their taxes and it's a shame some individuals have benefitted from kickbacks from some of companies [supposed to build dams, irrigation] while Kenyans go thirsty and hungry. President Uhuru Kenyatta should not buy time anymore but act against his officers mentioned extensively in scandals. My committee, the Public Investments Committee, mandated to oversee such investments, will also get to the bottom of this. The Executive will have to account for every shilling allocated to carry out such would-be 'development projects'. In the coming days, my committee will be looking into the reports and we will write a report to the National Assembly recommending action. It is a criminal act when you see the Sh7 billion Galana Kulalu collapsing and no one is taking responsibility. Such projects were meant to be a game changer in our economy but they have all gone into waste and, mind you, we borrowed money for these projects. We have been informed that the repayment period for some loans is here with us and it is painful that we will be repaying this loan when the projects we borrowed the money for are barren. In conclusion, I want to challenge Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti to go for every individual mentioned and arraign them in court as soon as possible. Kenyans deserve justice. The chairman of the Public Investments Committee spoke to the Star Click here for the latest political news