Kenya now says predictable patterns of travel advisories in the aftermath of terror attacks are hurting it. Through Cabinet administrative Secretary foreign affairs Ababu Namwamba, the government said such advisories only serve to play into the hands of vile merchants if death to whom fear and despondency are essential tools of the trade. Namwamba was speaking during the 79-member global coalition against ISIS at a conference of foreign ministers hosted by US secretary of state Mike Pompeo in Washington. The CAS said the advisories also compromise the standing of countries already reeling under effects of terror attacks. "These are knee-jerk, reactionary and counterproductive. Let us commit to reviewing this policy," he said. He further said Kenya is strongly pitching for the Al Shabaab terror group to be officially classified as a terrorist group by the UN Security Council and the US who currently categorises the group only as a militia. "Inconsistent with the current classification by the United Nations Security Council, Al Shabaab is no longer a militia but an organisation that has metamorphosed into a hydra-headed monster. Its reach through Africa demonstrates the catastrophic dimension of its ambition and speaks to its potency as a raging terrorist group and makes it absolutely urgent that it be listed as such by the UNSC to halt its subtly distressing rise," Ababu said. He said Kenya remains committed to cooperating with the US on fighting the terrorists. Kenya joined the 79 member coalition last year and hopes to rally global support against the threat of Al Shabaab and other terror groups. Ababu reiterated that as the country recovers from the recent attack at 14Riverside, it is worth noting that the appetite for numerous attacks on Kenyan soil is driven by what Kenya has grown to symbolise; a thriving democracy embodying freedoms of movement, association, worship, respect to diversity, a thriving economy and a functioning society. While many attacks are done on Kenyan soil it should be noted that it is the US that was targeted. Al Shabaab claimed responsibility for the Dusit attack and claimed it was a revenge mission against the US, he said. Pompeo in his remarks said the coalition is committed to tackling ISIS on all fronts, to dismantle its networks, counter its global ambitions, degrade and ultimately defeat the group and its affiliates.