Coming from theatre as an actress, working as a bar attendant, Lily Murgor has set her focus to represent Kenya at the World Cross Country Championships set for March 30 in Aarhus, Denmark. Murgor, who was inspired to take up athletics by her cousin and a former world half marathon record holder Florence Kiplagat, quit acting and bar waitress to take up athletics as her career to sustain her life. She says, she is the little known among the big names in the industry but that will not deter her ambitions when she faces them at the national cross country cum trials on Saturday at Eldoret Sports Club. “Yes, many people don’t know me but I am praying to God that I make the team to surprise the rest of the world,” said Murgor who started running alongside her elder sister Beatrice Murgor. Unfortunately, her sibling sustained an injury hence failed to compete at the regional championships two weeks ago. She will be appearing at the national championships for the second time after missing a slot in Team Kenya to the Africa Senior Athletics Championships last year in Asaba, Nigeria. “Last year was my first time to compete at the nationals and I must admit I gained a lot of experience on how to handle things at the senior level,” added Murgor who joined Global Sports Communication training camp in Kaptagat. The athlete decided to take up her new career after Kiplagat gave her training kit and started training in Iten in 2014 without a manager or coach. She has since joined Kiplagat at GSC an d her running style has changed and hopes to make Team Kenya to the global show. “I have some tips given unto to me by my coach Richard Metto and training mates like Kiyeng (Hyvin) and they will guide me at the championships,” she said. Murgor used to act secondary school set books when she was employed by Theatrics Arts Ensamble— earning between Sh8,000 to 15,000 a month. This could not, however, sustain her lifestyle. She then quit and began working as a bar attendant in Nairobi but her elder sister Beatrice invited her to Iten and was introduced to Kiplagat and immediately started training. “With all these years of training, I am fit for the great challenge and this is my year of athletics prosperity,” she added. She finished 10th at the 2018 Standard Chattered 10km race before ending the year in 19th position at Kass 10km race. She hopes for better results on Saturday. “Training in Iten was hectic because I used to pay for my bills but after joining training camp, I am enjoying so many services like massage, food and good training programme. “The coach is also at my disposal and I am now rubbing shoulders with the ‘who is who’ in the athletics circles,” concluded Murgor.