Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi wants President Uhuru Kenyatta to sack Cabinet Secretaries involved in corruption. He says it's time the president walked the talk on corruption and dismissed CSs whose dockets are embroiled in graft, some amounting to billions of shillings. “There is too much empty talk and explanations on the so-called handshake and yet corruption seems to be on the increase in government. Kenyans no longer want to hear explanations on the handshake, they want handcuffs on those involved in graft,” said Mudavadi. Mudavadi said explanations on the handshake between Uhuru and ODM leader Raila Odinga was not helping the country. He said unless Uhuru acts, he risks spoiling his legacy. "The image of the government is too tainted with graft, he said. The ANC leader said the handshake was of no use to Kenyans if looting is going on with the President and Raila watching. “He (Uhuru) can only restore confidence in Kenyans if he sends home those who are looting public resources in the country,” Mudavadi said. Read: Tighten oversight role to end corruption, Mudavadi tells MPs Mudavadi spoke on Saturday at Musembe village in Lugari constituency during the burial of his former personal assistant Henry Maloba. He was accompanied by area MP Ayub Savula, his Sabatia counterpart Alfred Agoi, nominated senator Naomi Shiyonga and Vihiga county woman representative Beatrice Adagala and politician Kevin Okwara. The ANC leader also challenged the Kenya and Italian governments to explain the fate of three mega dams in Rift Valley which were to cost sh 90 billion but have been muddled in graft and kickbacks involving cabinet secretaries. The dams include Itare in Nakur costing Sh40 Billion while the others are Arror which is set to cost Sh 38.5 billion and Sh 28 billion Kimwarer dam both in Elgeyo Marakwet County. Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich is among top-ranking officials who have been questioned by the DCI on allegations of kickbacks during tendering for the projects. Rotich recorded a statement last week on Monday at the Directorate of Criminal Investigations over the Arror multi-purpose dam in Marakwet West constituency and Kimwarer in Keiyo South constituency. Also read; NYS SCANDAL: It’s not corruption, it’s planned looting – Mudavadi Click here for the latest political news