It is said that blood is thicker than water, but in recent times, water has been thicker than blood for a Mombasa family. Two siblings - Noor Mohammed Jan and Zahara Jan Pote - have been battling in court for years over criminal and civil cases. It’s all about wealth. At the heart of the controversy are properties estimated to be worth more than Sh100 million. Both lay claim to the property and they don’t see eye-to-eye, unless in court. The dispute is about rental houses and real estate businesses. On Monday the High Court ruled that Noor had a case to answer. He had tried to frame his elder sister as a terrorist and plant ammunition in her house near the Coast Provincial General Hospital so that he could take over the property. He was charged with being in possession of 504 bullets, giving false information to the police and trying to frame his sister and her American husband. “The accused wanted to frame-up his sister so she could be arrested and thrown out of the country,” Francis Kipsang, a former deputy DCIO, told the court in April last year. Noor had filed several cases, including one at the Kadhi’s Court, claiming he has a right to the inheritance left by their mother, who died in 2011. But Zahara says she invested in all the properties. Noor claimed their mother had signed transfer documents of some of their properties. The transfer was registered on November 2, 2011. But statements were conflicting, including the date of the transfer. So bitter is the sibling rivalry that one had been accused of forging documents and signatures. The forgery case was dropped last year after the DPP appealed against it and filed a fresh one against Noor. The mention of the appeal was yesterday. Justice Annah Omollo directed that it goes back to court on March 18. In 2009, the titles of three of Zahara’s properties were altered to reflect her mother Shuni Haji was the “owner”. She reported the fraud to police. Three years later, a Kadhi’s Court in Mombasa ordered that Noor would get two thirds of their mother’s properties. Noor was awarded Sh100,000, from a bank account he claimed to have had interest in. inheritance Another case over sharing of ‘inheritance’ is pending at the Kadhi’s Court. Forensic document examiner Martin Kitavi had earlier told a magistrate’s court that the signature that gave Noor the lion’s share in the property was not Zahara’s. “In my opinion, the signatures were made by different authors,” he said. But magistrate J.M. Nang’ea said the prosecution evidence was inadequate to place the accused on his defence. “He is hereby acquitted of the charge. The cash bail deposited may be refunded,” Nang’ea said. As the cases continued in court, the outrage spilled into social media. A petition was circulated supporting Zahara. Zahara and her husband Mark Pote were the targets in the ammunition case, the court ruled. There have been intrigues in the cases between the two, with numerous adjournments, and two magistrates recusing themselves. The property case is coming up on 20-21 March. Noor is expected to defend himself over the ammunition allegations on April 1. His lawyer, Gikandi Ngibuini, told the court his client may only call one witness. “I’m satisfied the prosecution has made out a prima facie case against the accused and I accordingly place him on his defence,” principal magistrate Charles Ndegwa said. Yesterday DCI officer Nathan Kipyatich said he was on patrol on January 4, 2016, and was called by deputy DCIO Kipsang to the station. He was later introduced to Noor. “He told me he had information to give us. Noor had brought four samples of ammunition alleging he had drawn them from a military ammunition box given to him by his brother-in-law, Mark Pote, who was an ex-US army officer,” Kipyatich said. He then accompanied Noor to a five-storey building near Buxton, where his sister lived. “He further showed us the fifth floor and alleged that that is where the sister and the brother in-law were residing,” he said. However, the metallic box was recovered at the accused’s house, not his sister’s. In the property case, Noor claimed Zahara had lived in Germany, USA, Uganda, Iran and other countries from a tender age and was rarely home. He claimed that he was a businessman and took care of their mother. Noor owned the Furniture Centre Coast Ltd. It has since been closed. “While I was constructing our buildings, we kept communicating on phones and emails,” he said. But Zahara said she sent money for the construction of the properties.