The Anti-Terror Police Unit is going after kins and family friends of terror suspects who have either been killed, charged, or released for lack of evidence. The Unit is frantically trying to penetrate a terror web responsible for the Dusit D2 attack in Nairobi that claimed 21 lives. President Uhuru Kenyatta promised a ruthless and “relentless” pursuit of every person involved in the funding, planning and execution of the heinous attack. But with the Unit's efforts, there are reported human rights violations, threats and unnecessary arrests of people. Mombasa remains the epicentre of the ATPU investigations after it emerged that most Dusit terrorists – including suicide-bomber Mahir Khalid Riziki – were either born, raised or at some point lived in the town. There has been increased surveillance at homes or workplaces of the targets days after warning from US spy agency. The Agency in its January 29 report said al-Shabaab is likely to continue posing threats to East Africa counties. Last week, four ATPU officers were briefly arrested after a siege was laid by Makupa police station undercover agents. The four officers – three men and a woman – were taken at Makupa station and shortly released after revealing their identities and mission. They were arrested after Naima Mzamil reported their suspicious activities around her shop and private life for two consecutive days. She obtained OB number 82/29/1/2019. Mzamil said the four who had not identified themselves took photos of his son, shop and vehicles with a motive to trail her. The four ATPU officers drove on different vehicles. One had registration number KCM 530M. Mzamil is the mother of Abdulaziz Ali and a relative to Sultan Ali. Abdulaziz and Sultan were in June 2016 arrested at Nakumatt supermarket in Malindi on suspicion of being al Shabaab members. Sultan was released a day later but Ali was charged and his case still drags in court. Mzamil said: "My son is innocent. If the police want him they should just say and we will present him. Surveiling us is not right." "I have produced the identity of my son to Nairobi and they said he is not on their watch list. Why all this surveillance?" she asked. A gun that police dound at Sultan's home was licensed. The IDs collected also belonged to his workers who have sworn an affidavit. Mazil said she's still being watched. "I fear my son may be abducted. If there's anything, let them tell us," Mzamil said in tears on Monday in Mombasa. The ATPU officers disguised themselves as customers and on several occasions, asked the prices of various commodities within Mzamil's shop. Mzamil cautiousness is informed by the death of another relative, Rashid Sultan, on the morning of June 29, 2016, in Malindi. Rashid was killed during a shootout with anti-terror police after they raided a house he was in. Police claims of retrieving jihadi literature, a pistol, 15 bullets and 18 photocopies of IDs have been challenged by the deceased family. Other materials seized according to police are 15 passports size photos of youths believed to have joined terror group al Shabaab, six mobile phones and a laptop. On Friday, Mombasa lawyer Mohamed Farid Ali who has been following terror cases was abducted in Nyali and released a day later in Nairobi. The eyewitness said Ali was handcuffed by his abductors and bundled in a vehicle. The lawyer maintains thugs took him and demanded an Sh50,000 ransom. He was found"unconscious at Thika Road. Muslims for Human Rights chairman Khelef Khalifa said some rogue ATPU officers might be taking advantage of the larger Dusit operation to cash-in. He said all indications point to a possible abduction of Ali by these officers. “If this is normal thuggery, why travel all the way to Nairobi to demand an insignificant ransom? Could this be a scheme by ATPU officers taking advantage to make money?” Khalifa said on Monday. Khalifa also cited inconsistency in Farid's statement “maybe out of fear”. “Why does Farid keep on insisting that kidnappers are not police officers but 'wahalifu' (thugs)? How sure is he?” he said. Khalifa questioned why Kasarani police released Ali without resorting to thorough investigation yet abduction is a crime. “I have a strong feeling that all these enforced disappearances are part of ATPU operation. The onus squarely lies upon the police, to tell the truth, and to assure public what transpired,” he said. Click here for the latest political news