There was drama at Bondo Subcounty Hospital when Siaya MCAs went on a fact-finding mission to ascertain claims of high maternal deaths. This follows allegations made by West Asembo MCA Ambrose Akuno and Bondo residents. Central Gem MCA Abigail Awino led the assembly's Committee on Health to the hospital and they met a hostile reception. Medical superintendent Dr Willis Ochieng was not comfortable with the committee's presence. When the MCAs sought to have an audience with him, he told the team not go close to him. “I don’t want to talk to you. I will not talk to you even if it means losing my job,” Ochieng shouted at the MCAs on Wednesday. The committee that had hoped to have a candid discussion was in for a shock. But an adamant Awino went to Ochieng's office where hell broke loose. An angry Ochieng continued shouting and warning MCAs. He said he had received death threats over the issue they were probing. “I have been threatened by a lady called Carol. She told me she will disappear with my head,” Ochieng said. As tension grew, Health executive Dorothy Owino grabbed Ochieng and pleaded with him to calm down during the stand-off that lasted 15 minutes. “Chair just understand him. He has been working under pressure since the allegations went viral on social media. Some media houses have also been reporting about it,” Owino said. But the committee chair was not satisfied with the explanation and insisted on knowing why the superintendent was behaving in that manner. “We are not after someone’s life, we are only here to get the facts,” Awino said. She said they want clarification from Ochieng on the issues raised since he is the head of the hospital. “All the junior officers have spoken to us. We are wondering why the superintendent is violent for no apparent reason,” she said. The MCAs said with or without the superintend's views the committee will give a report on their findings in two weeks. Health CEC Owino had also gone to investigate the death claims in the company of the hospital’s board. Earlier, the CEC and the board dismissed allegations of the hospital losing five mothers in the last one month at a press conference. Click here for the latest political news.