The current nurses strike has disrupted
healthcare delivery in some counties, Kisumu being one of them. Its negative impact on the
livelihood of the people has been immense. Poor families have had to evacuate
their patients from public hospitals to private ones at costs they can’t afford.
This unfortunate experience should not be allowed to happen again. There must
be better way of dealing with labour disputes in an essential service
sector such as health. Be that as it may, the facts of the
strike are still with us and several procedural issues should be looked into
which could have been handled much better by the striking nurses. First, following discussions in 2017
between the Council of Governors and the nurses in view of a strike that was
then underway, a "return to work" agreement was agreed. It promised
some uniform and service allowances to the nurses in the current financial
year. The CoG, however, overlooked one procedural issue — the need then to
involve the Salaries and Remuneration Commission in arriving at any agreement
affecting such matters in the public service. Second, having been retroactively
made aware of this agreement, the SRC wrote to the CoG that it had no power or
authority whatsoever to arrive at such a deal with the nurses without the prior
approval of the SRC. In any case, given the current national wage bill and its
debilitating effects on development funding, the SRC would not recommend any
increase whatsoever of the remuneration of the nurses. Third, the SRC went further to observe
that the nurses are actually pretty fairly remunerated compared to the other cadres
in the public service. Any increase in their salaries or benefits could easily
ignite a spiral demand by other cadres thereby creating an uncontrollable
situation of salary escalation. It was, therefore, important for the Commission
to be given the opportunity to look at the public service as a whole in terms
of salaries and remuneration rather than tackle the issue piecemeal. Fourth, the SRC made it very clear
it is the only institution with the constitutional mandate to review and determine
salaries and remuneration in the public service. Its word on such matters hence
must be treated with the finality it deserves. For that matter, the nurses’
strike had absolutely no foundation since no presentation had been put before
the SRC for consideration. But having been made aware by a fait accompli of an
on going strike, all it could say was that both the "return to work"
agreement of 2017 and the current strike were illegalities. Notwithstanding all this, the nurses
have insisted the strike continues. It forced President Uhuru Kenyatta to come
out very forcefully on Wednesday in calling on the nurses to resume work
immediately. The President was right. All Kenyans are subject to the rule of
law. The CoG had held a meeting with the state departments of Labour and
Health and had gone to court seeking to have a conciliation process to allow
for further discussions with the nurses in lieu of the position of the SRC. The
court then allowed 60 days of conciliation. The nurses’ union leaders flatly
refused to obey the court order and ordered their members to continue with the
strike. The President was rightfully
stunned. Whatever the merits of their cases the last thing the nurses could
possibly entertain is to be in contempt of court. Our nation, as the President
rightfully observed, must be a nation where all citizens are subject to the
rule of law. The courts may at times make decisions that offend the conscience
but we are “unfortunately” obliged to follow the laid down legal procedures to
appeal our cases under such circumstances. Taking the law into our own hands is
likely to be a recipe for chaos. All Kenyans of good will are,
therefore, appealing to the nurses to discontinue sending this strike action in
the direction of chaos and disorder. The issues are now very clear. Methinks it
is now time for the leaders of the Union of Nurses to sit down with the SRC and
soberly discuss their demands. Both sides will then lay all the facts on the
table and call in all other entities, which are interested institutions to
discuss this issue once for all. At times like this, it is sobriety, rather
than rabble rousing, which can produce positive results. But one thing is certain: The
nursing community play an extremely critical role in healthcare delivery. Apart
from the issues of wages, salaries and benefits we need to look at problems
related to their conditions of work as a whole. My proposal is that we should have
professional healthcare managers to run health institutions. This will greatly
improve the ambiance in which healthcare workers perform their duties. It is
grossly unfair to burden a nurse, a clinical officer or a doctor with the
responsibility of managing a health centre or a hospital. A professionally
trained health administrator should do that job. Treating patients and knowing
how many dustbins are functional in a hospital are two tasks that must be
divorced from each other. Further, there are certain
"tools of work" such as uniforms, which ought to be institutionally
supplied and managed by hospitals. My take is that nurses and doctors need not
bargain for the availability of such tools of work: Health institutions should
make them available and manage them. In other words, out of this strike
we should learn certain lessons regarding the reforms we need in the Health
sector. This debate should be carried out soberly and constructive conclusions
arrived at.  The writer is the Kisumu governor   