Kenya has been locked out of the Davis Cup Euro/Africa Group II Championship this year. Kenya, who qualified after winning Africa Group Group Three last year on home soil with Namibia finishing second, have fallen foul of the new rule adopted by the International Tennis Federation (ITF) Annual General Meeting in United States last year, where they came up with new guidelines on the Davis Cup. Tennis Kenya (TK) vice chairman Francis Mutuku said the new rankings were backdated to four years ago and as a result, Kenya dropped to 13 position in Euro/Africa Group II, where 12 countries were picked. Kenya were ranked 76th in the world by the end of last year. Mutuku said they appealed the decision through their legal team but it was rejected. This means Kenya will play in Group 3 this year at a venue and date to be decided by the ITF. He termed the move is a disappointment but was confident the team will qualify for Group 2 next year. “It’s sad for us as a federation and the players but we have to do away with the disappointment and start training adequately for the event,” he added. ITF AGM adopted new ranking system that came to effect after a new sponsor, Kosmo, an investment firm owned by FC Barcelona and Spain defender Gerard Pique, signed a deal worth US$30 billion (Sh300 billion) covering 25 years. Kosmo takes over from BNP Paribas, a French International banking company, who have been ITF partners for over 100 years. The Kenya Davis Cup team is under the tutelage of Rosemary Owino. TK secretary general Wanjiru Mbugua said Kenya may host the Group 3 tournament just as they did last year. “It’s an option we are looking at and we are talking to the ITF. We had good attendance last year and we will bid for it again,” she added Mbugua said the teams Kenya will face in the Group 3 will be known by next week. “We will know our opponents by early next week and plan accordingly for the tournament. Winners of Africa Group III will now pocket Sh2.5 million up from Sh250,000.