Angolan side Petro Atletico on Wednesday halted Gor Mahia's good run in the CAF Confederations Cup second group match with a 2-1 victory at the Estádio 11 de Novembro in Luanda. Petro Atletico opened the scores in the 13th minute through Manquzi Quiberto, before Toni Ribeiro added the second in the 37th minute. Substitute Nicholas Kipkuri scored Kogalo’s consolation goal in the 92nd minute. Defender Charles Momanyi's blunder gifted the Angolans their first goal because of poor clearance. Quiberto curled in a shot from outside the box from an Elio Wilson cross. Kogalo enjoyed possession in the first 10 minutes of the match but could not beat Angola's hawk-eyed defence. Francis Mustapha, who started in place of suspended top scorer Jacquis Tuyisenge, had the first chance in the third minute from Shafiq Batambuze’s cross, but his feeble shot didn't trouble Angolan international goalkeeper Jorge Elber. Gor captain Harun Shakava headed Batambuze’s corner in the 9th minute but it was parried by Elber. Petro dominated play with Kogalo defending with their lives. Gor keeper Boniface Oluoch, who was kept busy all along, punched the ball to no man’s land under pressure from Domingos da Silva and Petro captain Job Ricardo shot wide with the post gapping. Minutes later the Kenyan league champions had their meaningful full shot on target from Batambuze ’s long-range free-kick that went straight into the keeper’s waiting arms. Petro extended their lead in the 37th minute after Mathias outsprinted Onyango on the right to cross for Brazilian Toni Rosa who out jumped Momanyi to head past helpless Oluoch. George ‘Blackberry’ Odhiambo came in for Boniface Omondi at the stroke of halftime to add pace into the game. In the second half, the Angolans started from where they stopped. Joe tormented Onyango in the right wing to float across for Tiago Azulao to head in but Oluoch collected easily. Sensing danger, Kogalo coach Hassan Oktay brought in Nicholas Kipkurui for ineffective Mustapha. Gor kept the home side on the back foot but had little space in the opposing box resorting to harmless long-range shots. Kogalo kept knocking on the Angolan’s door and 'Blackberry' hit a rasping shot over the bar. He again came close with a header from a Kenneth Mucuna's cross before Kipkurui headed straight at the keeper in quick succession. Samuel Onyango replaced striker Erissa Sekisambu as Gor pressed for a goal. With less than 90 seconds left in normal time, Portuguese Elio Martins came in for Elio in a time-wasting strategy. Kipkurui outjumped the Angolans' central defence to head one home for Kogalo in the 92nd minute from a harmless cross in the last piece of action of the entertaining match. Despite the loss, Gor Mahia retained top spot on a plus one goal difference. Two weeks ago Gor beat Egyptian giants Zamalek 4-2 in the opener, while the Angolans, who lost 1-2 to Algerian side NA Hussein Dey, moved to second. The table is expected to change after Zamalek takes on Hussein Dey in a North African derby later. Click here for the latest political news 