A reclamation programme by the Kenya Red Cross Society is expected to turn the Ifo 2 refugee camp green. The camp in Dadaab subcounty, Garissa, was closed in May last year after its refugees were repatriated. The UNHCR plans to hand it over to the county government. The process has been slow. In the meantime, the Kenya Red Cross has taken advantage of the water resources left behind to irrigate the land. It intends to invest more money in the complex to support farming. It will use its harvests to support residents during famines. Already, 75 acres of reclaimed parcels have been irrigated. It has pawpaw, mangoes, bananas, water melons, kale and tomatoes. Red Cross secretary general Abass Gullet on Saturday said they will adopt a new technology to boost production. They plan to put hundreds of acres under farming. Pivot technology reduces water consumption. Its new version will enable them to reduce production cost. The humanitarian agency will grow a new type of grass called alfafa. It can be harvested within 30 days and will save pastoralists during droughts. Their animals are usually emaciated for lack of pasture. Many residents lose their livestock. A solution is in sight. The grass will be stocked. “This land was naturally fertile and could have played a great role in promoting the Big Four by improving food security in this area, as residents depend on relief food throughout the year,” Abass said. He said the project encourages residents, who are predominantly livestock keepers, to diversify their livelihoods. “Many pastoralists, who are rendered destitute during droughts, can venture into irrigation agriculture to supplement their diet and have grass for their livestock,” Abass said. Garissa county assembly Minority leader Mohammed Sheikh urged residents to settle around the area to exploit the project left behind by the refugees. The infrastructure includes fully equipped primary and secondary schools, hospitals, boreholes and solar panels. Mohammed said they will put guidelines in place for proper management of the projects. Igad executive secretary Mahboob Maalim said they will lobby for funds to ensure the community’s livelihoods are improved. Igad partners with the Red Cross in its humanitarian initiatives.