World Under-20 medallists Rhonex Kipruto, Stanley Waithaka and Edward Zakayo have promised to upset the form book when the national cross country championships-cum-trials go down at the Eldoret Sports Club on Saturday. Kipruto, the world U-20 10,000m champion, Waithaka (wu20 5,000m silver medallist) and Zakayo (wu20 5,000m champion) will be competing in the senior ranks in their quest to represent the country at the World Cross Country Championships in Aarhus, Denmark and have promised that they will not be pushovers. The trio have had a blistering career so far with Kipruto reigning supreme in his distance while Zakayo and Waithaka have had a somewhat brotherly rivalry and it will be interesting to see how they will team up this time round as they seek to end the dominance of double world cross country champion Geoffrey Kamworor. Waithaka, representing Central Region and Zakayo (from North Rift), have faced off on two occasions at the international level with the latter getting the better of his friend. Zakayo, won silver at the 2017 World Under 18 3,000m race behind Ethiopia’s Seleman Barega with Waithaka taking the bronze at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani. Zakayo also beat Waithaka to the gold medal at the World Under 20 Championships in Tampere, Finland. He is also the Commonwealth Games 5,000m bronze medallist and the Africa 5,000m champion. The Kapsait Secondary School student said his focus is to end Kamworor’s dominance. “Kamworor is an experienced runner but I want to do my best to oust him and win the national title ahead of World Cross Country Championships,” said Narok-born Zakayo. The most celebrated of the trio, Kipruto from North Rift, missed the world 10km record by two seconds at the Birell Prague 10km road race and will be seeking to leave a mark at altitude and show that his recent performances were not a fluke. Kipruto, under the tutelage of brother Colm O’Connell, won the Birell race in 27:46 but fell short of ending Leonard Komon’s ten year world record. In his career, he has faced Zakayo twice, with the latest being a winning performance at the Discovery Cross Country meeting in Eldoret last month. “As much as I am a junior runner, I am optimistic that I will make the team to Aarhus, the same way I did as a junior,” said Kipruto.  