The Currency Markets remain the most liquid market of all in the World and something equivalent to the Challenger Deep in the Mariana Trench which is the deepest known point in the Earth's oceans. The Foreign Exchange market trades in excess of $5.1 trillion a day. Within the 24 hour cycle, the market exhibits Liquidity peaks and troughs and we have witnessed spectacular and exponential moves typically in the early hours when most of the World is in the Land of Nod and liquidity is at its lowest. You might recall a night when Sterling tanked ten big figures, a night when the Rand flash-crashed and even this year we saw the Aussie get creamed. Wizards and Gremlins stalk the night. Once upon a time, the FX market was a ''voice-over'' market, today its entirely screen-based and algorithimic and High Frequency Trading is a big component and both are heavily reliant on complex mathematical formulas and high-speed computer programs. HFT strategies utilize computers that make elaborate decisions to initiate orders based on information that is received electronically, before human traders are capable of processing the information they observe. Algorithmic trading and HFT have resulted in a dramatic change of the market microstructure, particularly in the way liquidity is provided. The attraction of the FX market is that it allows all Participants to deploy outsize leverage. Basically, You can deploy up to 200x Leverage. There is no other market that allows this level of leverage. The US Dollar [notwithstanding endless chatter over its imminent demise] remains the dominant currency representing around 60% of the market. Of course The [Petro] Dollar underpins US Power and this is an observable fact. The US has frequently deployed coercive financial warfare strategies and it works a Treat and in fact President Trump has lobbed the odd Tweet to good effect but more than that You can see how coercive financial warfare has ground the likes of Venezuela and Iran into the dust. Thats the background. The Market View pivoted big time on the Dollar at the end of last year and priced out further interest rate increases and has now priced in a rate cut. Typically, a reduction in interest rate expectations would soften a currency. However, the market has now absorbed the view that it will be a synchronised global slowdown and that the US will likely outperform. I stand by my view that the Dollar will appreciate about 10% in 2019. The currency markets in Africa, however, have been idiosyncratic and endlessly fascinating. The Ghana Cedi slumped to an all time low last week, has weakened 8.6% Year to Date and is the worse performing currency in the World. Tito Mboweni the South African Finance Minister delivered a currency Yehudi Menuhin level master-class last week. He delivered his Budget Speech last week and began by presenting the aloe ferox which he says is resilient, sturdy and drought resistant. He then started with all the bad news, the proposed and expensive rescue of Eskom and this sent the Rand into an almighty Tail-Spin and an orgy of Rand selling. At one point the Rand was -2.00% on the day. Then he rowed back and he had all the Rand Shorts where he wanted them. The Rand ended the day marginally positive. Mr. Mboweni's Budget Speech and the finesse with which he skewed his delivery [negative first and then gradually more positive] set the Trap. He exhibited a feel for the markets which was seriously noteworthy. Zimbabwe finally overhauled its dysfunctional,''whack'' and even Voodoo FX regime. Zimbabwe’s government dropped its insistence that a quasi-currency known as bond notes are at par with the dollar as it overhauled foreign-exchange trading and effectively devalued the securities. While the government has previously insisted that bond notes and RTGS dollars are worth the same as U.S. dollars, the units currently trade at between 3.66 and 3.8 to the dollar respectively on the black market [Bloomberg] “The introduction of a Zim dollar will be just in name, but the RTGS$ is essentially the Zim dollar.” Tendai Biti is predicting a 6-8 range whilst the Government is looking for it to appreciate to 2.5 which is best characterised as ''Hail-Mary'' economics. This is the right move but I would definitely be short at 2.5, if it ever gets there which is entirely unlikely. The Sudanese Pound has been in FreeFall and its consequences are self-evident with Omar Al-Bashir imposing a State of Emergency. Nigeria maintains a two tier FX Regime a little like King Canute. Its entirely unlikely that Nigeria can accelerate out of the GDP slow lane with the current FX regime. The Stand-Outs in Africa from a currency perspective are Egypt and Kenya. Egypt's Al-Sisi devalued big and early and the consequences of that bold economic pivot is there for all to see, Egypt GDP is likely to have a 5 handle in 2019 and the economy overtook South Africa. And in Kenya, The Shilling has appreciated by +1.6% in 2019 and is testing the key 100.00 level.