Unite, deliver on promises and solve residents' problems, Homa Bay leaders urge governor Cyprian Awiti. The leaders further asked Awiti to invite his political rival Oyugi Magwanga who petitioned against his win and solve their differences. The apex court on Thursday declared that Awiti and his deputy Hamilton Orata were genuinely elected on August 8, 2017 poll. The leaders who included MPs Peter Kaluma (Homa Bay Town), Millie Odhiambo (Suba North) and Richard Ogindo (Homa Bay assembly majority whip) want a forum where they will discuss development matters in the county. Kaluma said lack of talks among political leaders in the county had hindered implementation of development projects. “Now that Awiti’s has been given the mandate to serve the people of Homa Bay till 2022, I urge him to convene a meeting with political leaders and see how they can develop the county,” Kaluma said. Speaking after the verdict, Magwanga said he is ready to give the Governor time to work. Magwanga called on his supporters to remain calm. “I urge my supporters to take heart and support the cause of Supreme Court. Let us give Awiti support to work,” Magwanga said on phone. Read: Supreme Court upholds Cyprian Awiti's election as Homa Bay governor Millie called on the Governor to unite with other elected leaders to improve on service delivery to the people. “Let him ensure his cabinet delivers services effectively,” Millie said. Ogindo said the governor seat is a symbol of unity to Homa Bay residents and it will be prudent if he called a meeting for the sake of peace and unity. “Governor Awiti should not allow residents to walk in different paths after the court verdict. We want to see all leaders working in unity,” Ogindo said. On Thursday supporters of Awiti thronged several streets of Homa Bay town in celebrations after his reelection was upheld. The supporters shouted Akubaa! Akubaa!! (Awiti’s nickname) in their celebrations to show their satisfaction with the Supreme Court decision. Led by Opere Japala, Millicent Aoko and Elly Oyier, the supporters called for unity of the two camps. “Let us all be united and work together regardless of the person we have been supporting. Awiti should take lead in uniting residents,” Aoko said. Japala said they support the verdict because subjecting locals in another election could propagate more division. The IEBC declared Awiti the winner with 210, 173 votes against Magwanga’s 189,060 votes in the contentious election conducted on August 8, 2017. Click here for the latest political news