Ushuru returned to winning ways edging Nairobi City Stars 2-0 at Camp Toyoyo to cut the gap on log leaders Wazito to three points as Football Kenya Federation (FKF) National Super League entered week 16. It was Ushuru’s first win in three games and the win saw them move to second place. Wazito dropped two crucial points after the promotion favourites were held to a 1-1 draw. Derrick Onyango continued with his fine form, scoring for Wazito while Herbert Okoth replied for AP. Despite the draw Mohammed Mchulla’s Wazito lead the log with 38 points followed while Ushuru is on 35. Nairobi Stima maintained their unbeaten run in the league after beating Kibera Black Stars 2-1. The power men are third with 34 points. Victor Omune and Amos Wekesa were on target for Nairobi Stima while Julius Masaba scored Kibera Black Stars ‘consolation. Nairobi Stima host Wazito on Wednesday at Karuturi Stadium in Naivasha. Fred Serenge recorded his first win as Green Commandos coach after beating Eldoret Youth 1-0 at Bukhungu Stadium. Yakeen Muteheri scored the all-important goal as the Kakamega-based side moved to 18th place in the league. The 19th placed Migori Youth picked a crucial point after holding visiting Talanta to a 1-1 draw at Awendo Green Stadium while Bidco defeated local rivals Fortune Sacco 1-0. In a coast derby, Modern Coast Rangers beat Coast Stima 1-0 in a feisty encounter which saw both teams finish the game with 10 men. Francis Ocholla scored the lone goal. Davis Shikala of Coast Stima was sent off for violent conduct while Modern Coasts Naftali Orawo was red carded for retaliating. Kisumu All Stars succumbed to their second loss of the season, going down 2-1 against Kenya Police as Shabana recorded a rare second straight win, beating Thika United 1-0. Kangemi All-Stars and St. Joseph Youth drew 1-1. Daniel Kamau scored for Kangemi with Musa Masika pulling St Joseph’s level. St. Joseph’s coach Nicholas Mbogo and Kangemi’s Shaban Masika said they were contended with one. “I’m happy with the point because I’m still rebuilding the team. I will focus on working on scoring,” said Masika. Mbogo said: “It was a tough game. I expected a win but I’m happy with the point.”