Manufacturers and the government have so far agreed on various necessary changes that should be undertaken to ease the refund of VAT. According to details emerging from a meeting between the Kenya Revenue Authority and the Kenya Association of Manufactures, The National Treasury will publish a revised formula on VAT refunds by the end of this month. The formula proposes a reduction of the Withholding VAT from six to two per cent as fronted by KAM. The proposal is however unlikely to be implemented before the next budget. According to KAM chief executive, Phyllis Wakiaga, this is expected to reduce the accumulating VAT claim credits from manufacturers. An internal survey carried out by KAM on its members shows that as of June 2018, 23 manufacturers were owed approximately more than Sh3.6 billion as outstanding refund amounts. Much of the debts date back to 2016. “The option of offsetting may not address the cash flow challenges facing Industry,” Wakiaga said. Other expected changes include the introduction of an automated platform for reclaiming VAT refunds through iTax in the next three weeks. KAM and KRA representatives present in the meeting were informed that the taxman has already conducted a test run for the platform and is ready to go live. The meeting saw KAM and KRA agree on a tripartite meeting involving Treasury to be held before introduction of the new formula. Wakiaga said there is need to review the amount of capital withheld by KRA as VAT as it interferes with operations. “Some bills are too high, to a tune of Sh600 million sitting as credit in the system...this thing is a disincentive to exporters,” Wakiaga said. She said the credit position pushes some exporters out of business as they are forced to borrow money at high interest rates. Wakiaga said KRA has accepted that the current VAT Refund formula has a problem. They have since called on affected firms to present their details to KAM for the matter to be taken up with Treasury. The compiled cases are expected to be received by KRA by end of this week.