Kiru tea factory in Murang’a wants DCI George Kinoti and DPP Noordin Haji to probe top KTDA managers for allegedly meddling in the factory. Chairman Chege Kirundi accused KTDA of imposing a parallel board of directors and falsifying documents to replace validly elected directors. Kirundi said KTDA Holdings Ltd and KTDA Management Services Ltd directors conspired to print over 8,000 copies of Kiru’s financial statement for the period ending June 30, 2017 which they used to install a parallel board loyal to them. “They made or caused to be made false documents by use of unauthorised signatures plus many other criminal offenses,” Kirandu says in a letter to Haji. He further alleges that despite the factory obtaining court orders directing KTDA MS and KTDA HL to the observe status quo until the appeal process is exhausted, the two entities went ahead and installed a parallel set of directors. The Court of Appeal blocked KTDA and its subsidiary from interfering with the leadership and management of the 8,000-member tea factory. The three-member bench stopped KTDA Holdings and KTDA MS from conducting any meetings or causing the nomination of any directors of the factory pending the appeal challenging the alleged removal of chairman Kirundi and company secretary Bernard Kimani. Kirundi’s letter says KTDA went ahead to elect two new directors, Michael Kamotho and John Waweru, in total disregard of the court order. The trouble, he says, started when the legitimate board demanded a forensic audit of financial management records of KTFC by KTDA for the last eight years. The board is also accused of calling for revocation of the appointment of company secretary John Omanga on professional and unethical grounds, something that did not go down well with KTDA’s top brass. “Seven days after, on December 14, 2017, the two legal entities proceeded in disobedience of the court order and contemptuously proceeded to elect, disturb and structurally change the status quo of the board of directors for unlawful and illegal purposes,” Kirundi says. “Contempt has continued contumaciously for the last ten months in breach court orders.” Click here for the latest political news