Influential politicians and directors of top firms are among powerful individuals summoned by anti-graft detectives for questioning today over the stalled Sh63 billion dam projects. Three Cabinet Secretaries including Treasury’s Henry Rotich have already recorded statements over the issue. Today, DCI boss George Kinoti has summoned 107 firms and hundreds of their directors in an unprecedented move to tame “tenderpreneurship” seen as the biggest platform for sleaze. The large-scale investigation has also exposed the names behind influential companies raking in millions in profits annually. According to the DCI, the 107 companies were paid to offer various services in the botched construction of the two dams and therefore have critical information for the investigators. Among the firms being sought is Kentainers Kenya Ltd whose directors include former powerful minister Simeon Nyachae. Kentainers is the manufacturer of the popular plastic tanks including Kentank and Aquatank. Read: Land commission to acquire 4,000 acres for Arror, Kimwarer dam projects Also on the DCI’s radar is Insurance firm, Sanlam Ltd whose directors have for the first time been exposed. Among directors of Sanlam is Deputy President William Ruto’s Chief of Staff Kennedy Nyaucho Osinde and the late powerful minister John Michuki. Telkom Kenya CEO Mugo Kibati, who served as Sanlam CEO until last year, is also listed by DCI as director in the insurance firm. Also wanted by the Kinoti is former South Mugirango MP Manson Nyamweya, who is the director of Kema East Africa, a personal and protective equipment firm. Nyamweya yesterday vehemently denied being a supplier in the controversial projects. Among its products are chemical protective clothing, cut resistant gloves, dust coats and protective footwear among others. The DCI said he was also interested in recording a statement from the directors of Heritage Insurance whose directors include aging former Attorney General Charles Njonjo. Also listed as a director of Heritage Insurance is former Kenya Airways Chief Executive Officer Titus Naikuni. Other firms being sought by detectives include Silent Night Ltd, Red Court Hotel, Azimath Company, Infinity Furniture Ltd and Charleston Travel Ltd. Oshwal Wholesalers, Mutual Registrars Ltd, Achelis Material Handling Ltd, Express Travel Group Ltd and Adrian Kenya Ltd are also wanted by the DCI. The multi-billion-shilling dams in the Rift Valley are being implemented through Kerio Valley Development Authority. The agency, under the Ministry of East African Community (EAC), and Regional Development is chaired by former Keiyo South MP Jackson Kiptanui. A third of the board is dominated by members of one community. More: Big Read: Arror dam row stalls Elgeyo’s plan to promote farming and end banditry More: Kerio locals tell off Tolgos for opposing Sh30 billion Arror dam The Star has established that for months, undercover detectives have been scouring through documents related to the award of tenders for the construction of multi-purpose dams, Arror and Kimwarer in Elgeyo Marakwet County. At the heart of the DCI investigations are claims that senior government officials received billions in kickbacks from an Italian firm, CMC Di Ravenna, which was awarded the tenders. It is alleged that some high flying government officials flew to Rome with their proxies to collect the loot in an intricate graft web that has puzzled sleuths. Arror Dam was set to cost Sh38.5 billion while Kimwarer was to cost Sh28 billion. The two projects are being financed through a loan from the Italian Government. What drew the attention of investigators is the puzzle of how about 75 per cent of the budget was hurriedly released with nothing happening on the ground. In a statement, the no-nonsense Kinoti asked the firms and their directors to make available all the necessary documentation, including quotations, delivery notes and payment vouchers. “You are now compelled to report to DCI headquarters Kiambu Road 9 am on 26th February 2019 to the Director of Investigation Bureau Block B, second-floor room 78, ”Kinoti said in a statement yesterday. He warned: “Failure to comply with the requisition constitutes an offence liable to prosecution”. According to the initial plan, CMC Di Ravenna was to construct Arror Dam, a hydropower plant complete with transmission lines and related facilities. The firm was also to develop infrastructure for 2,500 hectares for irrigation, development of water supply and storage infrastructure to support 50,000 people as well as conservation activities of Arror catchment. If and when completed, the Arror dam was to produce more than 60 megawatts of electricity and the Kimwarer dam 20 megawatts, which will be connected to the national power grid. A team of investigators is said to have flown to Rome, Italy, to seek mutual legal assistance on various issues, including how the alleged kickbacks were shared. The probe, which DCI insiders claim could be the biggest in recent history, could lead to the arrest and prosecutions in the coming days. Food security and industrialisation, which have been dealt a huge blow in the dam scandal, are among Uhuru’s priority projects dubbed the Big Four Agenda. Already the National Irrigation Board is quarrelling with an Israeli firm that was contracted to construct the ambitious 1 million-hectare Galana-Kulalu Irrigation project. Click here for the latest political news