Murang’a residents who filed a petition challenging renewal of Del Monte’s lease have opposed the company’s application to be enjoined in the High Court suit. The two petitioners, Ephantus Githae and James Mwangi on Wednesday told High court judge Grace Kemei that the company’s interest to be enjoined is not legal but private. Through lawyer Sam Ogutu, the petitioners said they are not challenging the renewal of the company’s lease but want the lease opened to public bidding for the best price. “Extension is not an automatic process in law and petitioners are asking that when the leases are being renewed, locals will be invited to bid,” Ogutu told the Environment and Lands court. Ogutu said the company’s application to be enjoined in the suit is akin to canvassing for its lease renewal through the courtroom. The Murang’a county government, a respondent in the case .also opposed the application. “The process of lease renewal is a province of the National Lands Commission and Murang’a county government and the Lands Act does not anticipate a situation where Del Monte would be actively involved in the process,” lawyer Mbugua Karuga told the court. He said allowing the company to be enjoined in the suit would give it a forum to improperly influence the decision towards making of lease renewals, a process it is not entitled to. The company, he said, has not demonstrated any prejudice in the proceedings and asked that the application be dismissed with costs to the fruits processor. The company through its lawyer Grishon Thuo had told the court that it is the owner of the property in dispute and should be party to the petition. Del Monte has invested massively in property, factories, thousands of acres of pineapple crops, irrigation infrastructure and staff houses, he said. “The leases held by the company are nearing expiry and it has applied for their renewal. The applications are in different stages of evaluation by the relevant authorities,” Thuo said. He said the petition aims at stopping the lease renewal process which has already been set in motion, saying the suit could drive the company out of business. Justice Kemei scheduled the case for April 4, when she will give a ruling on the application. The petitioners have insisted that it is a constitutional requirement for open bids to be invited to give other interested parties a chance to bid. The company has over 22,000 acres , 17,000 acres in Murang’a county while the rest are in Kiambu county.