Garissa chiefs, vetting committees and civil registration officials have been put on notice over rampant corruption and misuse of public offices. Northeastern regional commissioner Mohammed Birik on Friday directed county commissioner Meru Mwangi to investigate. He said there were claims that vetting committees, particularly from Garissa and Dadaab, solicit bribes to clear those seeking IDs. “I will not hesitate to sack and prosecute any government official implicated in any action contrary to the law,” he said. Birik spoke to security teams and members of the Nyumba Kumi initiative from the county. He said chiefs and their assistants whose jurisdictions face persist insecurity risk losing their jobs. Civil registration officials will face the law if they collude with vetting committees and chiefs to issue IDs to outsiders, will face the law. The Nyumba Kumi committees were urged to work with the recently recruited National Police Reservists to keep the area secure. Birik thanked residents for volunteering information that has assisted in preventing and neutralising criminal acts. Residents have complained that some rogue security officials working with criminals leak information, putting informers’ lives in danger. Birik said his office has received reports that some youths were still being radicalised by people believed to be teachers of duksis and madrasas. He asked the chiefs and their assistants to compile a list of youths, especially those who have completed their education. “Every chief and assistant chief should keep track of these youths because they are being targeted by terror groups,” Birik said. In July last year, the state’s human rights agency said the number of young Kenyans joining terror groups like al Shabaab had declined significantly. Fewer families complain about missing relatives, a Kenya National Commission on Human Rights official said. The official urged the government to ensure the youth are engaged, saying joblessness pushes them to join terror groups.   