The National Transport and Safety Authority has suspended the license for Green Line Bus Company following Sunday's tragic accident that claimed nine lives. NTSA Director General Francis Meja on Wednesday said the suspension was in line with Section 34 of the NTSA Act. Meja said the suspension was also necessitated by the company's continued traffic violations and the levels of compliance of the operator with the Public Service Vehicles Regulations, 2014. He said the suspension will only be lifted upon the operator’s full compliance with strict conditions. "The operator must comply with the legally defined branding as detailed in the Operation of Public Service Regulations, 2014 for all its vehicles, comply with inspection at NTSA motor vehicle inspection centres for all its vehicles and acquire Road Service Licences (RSL) for all its vehicles and PSV badges for all its drivers and conductors," Meja said in a statement. He said the company must also comply with the reinstatement of the fleet management system with RSL reflected and trackable to comply with all provisions of the PSV Regulations. "They must also comply with road safety training for all its drivers, conductors, owners and company officials," he said. Meja said the Traffic Department has been advised to impound any vehicles belonging to the company found operating contrary to the suspension. "The suspension takes effect from Wednesday, February 20, 2019," the Director-General said. Nine people died and several others injured after the bus heading to Nairobi collided with an oncoming trailer at Kwa Harun blackspot in Kamara along the Nakuru-Nairobi Highway. Seven people died on the spot while two succumbed to injuries as they were being attended to at Eldama Ravine Hospital in the accident. It was reported that the driver of the ill-fated bus had attempted to overtake other vehicles at high speed. Read: Nine killed in grisly Nakuru-Eldoret highway accident Following the accident, NTSA summoned officials of the Bus Company to explain what had transpired. Read: NTSA revokes license of truck driver behind deadly Chepsir accident Click here for the latest political news