It was his name missing from the ‘suicide note’ that raised the red flag, witness Billy Oketch told court yesterday. The list naming all family members of Jacqueline Chepng’etich was on the wall behind the door. Something was not adding up. Oketch is the half-brother of Jacqueline Chepng’etich. She was a victim of the self-confessed ‘blood-drinking’ serial sex killer Philip Onyancha. Oketch told the court he was so close to his sister that his name could not have been omitted from the list. “The writing on wall was not by my sister. It was apparent she did not commit suicide.” He said the author was likely unaware of his existence. “I met my sister four years before her sudden death. We share a father, so when my mother told her about me, she came to Nairobi to look for me,” Oketch said. “We bonded almost immediately and when my mother died, she was there for me so we grew even closer.” Oketch, testifying before Justice Jessie Lessit, said his sister called him three days before her body was found in her Gikomba house. Read: Confessed serial killer gets new trial; mistrial declared In what would be the last conversation between the two, Chepng’etich told Oketch she was hosting a childhood friend named Philip for a movie at her house. “She called me at midnight with a new number. I was working and she told me a friend named Philip from Kericho was visiting. The next day I tried to reach her but her phone was off,” he said. Oketch said he visited her house two days later and found it locked. “I asked a neighbour who was close to her but no one had seen her after May 29, 2008,” he said. On June 2, 2008, Oketch reported his sister missing. Accompanied by officers, they found her body dangling in the bathroom. “The bathroom door was locked when we broke in. The living room was a mess. The TV, a suitcase and a music stereo were missing.” “When I pushed open the bathroom door, I saw her body hanging from the shower. She was wearing jeans and a blouse. Her body had started to swell.” He said what caught his attention was an apparent suicide note written in blue. Chepng’etich had apologised to all family members whom she named, except him. “We were close. It didn’t appear like her handwriting either,” Oketch told the court. He said he had tried calling the number his sister used, but the receiver said he was on a business trip in Isiolo. “Everyone in my family knew Philip since they grew up with him. The accused [Philip Onyancha] led police officers to the houses where he claimed to have killed his victims. Chepng’etich’s house was one of them.” The caretaker at Chepng’etich’s house said he had last seen her alive on May 29, 2008, when he handed her rent receipts. “The accused was there with her, but it was not the first time he came. He had been visiting,” caretaker Evanson Mwangi said. The case will continue today. In 2010, Onyancha confessed killing 19 women and two children. He exaggerated the confessions by lying that he had drunk his victims’ blood. Onyancha said he had been sexually molested by a female guardian sparking his hatred for women. He had sworn to kill 100 in vengeance. After a hearing in which 13 witnesses testified, High Court judge James Wakiaga said Onyancha had a case to answer, but ordered a fresh hearing. Wakiaga ruled that Onyancha’s charge and subsequent sentencing was a mistrial. He directed the matter be taken before the head of criminal division for directions. Onyancha had been charged with three murders together with Tobias Aradi and Douglas Makori. They denied killing Anthony Muiruri, nine, on April 14, 2014, in Dagoretti, Nairobi. Read: Lock up satanic Onyancha, DPP implores court Click here for the latest political news