ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi has faulted referendum calls to expand the Executive, saying it offers nothing to suffering Kenyans. The Nasa co-principal yesterday said he will not be party to a referendum push which does not address the challenges facing Wanjiku. Mudavadi said any proposed changes must address unemployment, corruption, impunity and the increasing national debt. He said the national debt is a time bomb. “The fundamental question Kenyans should ask is the fate of those aged 35 and below who make almost 80 per cent of our population. The debate around constitutional change should consider this major segment,” Mudavadi said. The vice-president said life was increasingly becoming unbearable for many Kenyans due to increased taxes. “We must ensure the government does not go on reckless borrowing. The national debt has grown big and KRA is going everywhere trying to squeeze water from a rock,” he said. He said the creation of the position of a Prime Minister is one of the recommendations the public and politicians have presented to the Building Bridges Initiative. The task force is co-chaired by Garissa Senator Yussuf Haji and Adams Oloo. Mudavadi spoke after attending a church service at House of Grace in Nairobi. He called for the expansion of the Building Bridges Initiative to ensure everyone is on board. “We should not make referendum look like a debate for the political elite. Politicians do not have the monopoly of what ails this country.” Mudavadi also called for radical reforms at the Independent Electoral Boundaries Commission, saying the agency cannot oversee a referendum. “Even before we start talking about referendum, don’t you think we need to sort the referee? Constitutionally, IEBC should conduct the referendum but are we satisfied that IEBC as is currently constituted can a oversee a referendum that reflects the wishes of the people?” he posed. The agency has only three commissioners after four resigned. IEBC is also yet to get a substantive CEO following last year’s sacking of Ezra Chiloba who was implicated in procurement irregularities. Click here for the latest political news