Kenya risk being thrown out of the world swimming body, FINA unless elections are held by June. FINA congress meeting held in China was categorical that the Kenya Swimming Federation need to go to the polls and put to an end on the impasse that has been dogging the national office for the past two years since the resignation of long serving chairman Ben Ekumbo. Should the country get banned from the sport, Kenya will miss out on the World short course Championship in South Korea in July as well as the All African Games in Morocco in August. The meeting in China was attended by Kenya Swimming Federation acting chairman Patrick Muyah and Interim Management Committee, member Conrad Thorpe. When contacted, Muyah said he was optimistic the elections will be held before the deadline under a new constitution. “I’m confident the elections will be held in good time once we approve the constitution,” he added. The bone of contention is the draft constitution which has yet to be given to stakeholders two years down the line. Teachers, parents and coaches complained that there won’t be much time for public participation on the document due to time frame presented by FINA. The stakeholders said they will not go into an election without a new constitution in place. A source privy to the negotiations said the issues of constitution have dragged on for too long. “We have been waiting for the last two years but all we get are excuses upon excuses.” The stakeholders have also questioned the criteria for selection of swimmers to international events following the disbandment of the Joint Select Committee (JSC) which ensured smooth selection of swimmers to various events two years ago. Stakeholders have also claimed that the Interim Management Committee (IMC), which they claim have overstepped their mandate. “This committee, according to the sports act should only run for six months its been running for two years and stakeholders want answers,” the source added. Others issues they want addressed are the finances and swimming scholarships.