Kenya Cup league leaders Kabras put their unbeaten record on the line when they face Quins at the RFUEA ground today. The sugramillers lead the standings with 40 points and are unbeaten in eight matches, winning all of them with bonus points. Quins lie third with 31 points and have been in good form recently, claiming the scalp of fierce Ngong Road rivals Impala 37-24 a fortnight ago. The visitors have made two changes for this highly explosive encounter with Kevin Keegan starting on the wing as Hosea Ngesa starts at loose-head prop. The rest of the team remains unchanged with the key players, Asman Mugerwa, skipper Max Adaka, George Nyambua and Claude Johannes the starmen in the forwards. Brian Tanga and Logan Basson continue their partnership at half back as fullback Phillip Wokorach. Nick Barasa and Mario Wilson are the pick of the backs in midfield. Head coach Henley Du Plessis expects a tough contest against Quins. “It’s going to be a competitive game. Discipline and execution in attack and defence will be very important,” said Du Plessis. He said the side are refreshed after a week off and were ready for battle. “After our last game against Mwamba, the boys had a week off and they came in this week refreshed and relishing the challenge ahead,” he added. Quins have made four changes to the side that thrashed Ngong Warriors 80-3 last weekend in the first round of the Enterprise Cup. Loose-head Brian Obwaya, hooker Frank Khalwale, tight-head Paul Kioko and lock Hilary Baraza replace Elisha Koronya, Edward Oseko, Melvin Thairu and Roxy Dan Suchi respectively. Patrice Agunda and Herman Humwa are retained as the day’s blind and open flankers but there is a return for captain Peter Misango at number eight, meaning George Scott, who scored a double against Ngong, drops to the bench. Half-backs Dominic Osino and Eden Agero move from the bench to starting line up as Willy Ambaka starts on the right wing, Iddi Kakai on the left wing, Frank Wanyama at inside centre, David Ambunya at midfield and Lyle Asiligwa at fullback. Quins coach, Charles Cadovillis, who is facing his former employers said his side will be going all out to stop the visitors. “It’s a game everyone has been waiting for and I expect it to live to the billing. Both sides have some very good players and I hope they all don’t let the pressure get to them so they can play some good rugby as they demonstrate their skills. We are enjoying good form so far. We’ve started 2019 unbeaten and I am happy with the progress made by the boys,” said Cardovillis. The match will be preceded by a clash between fifth-placed Mwamba and Blak Blad at 2pm. Champions KCB have a date with Strathmore Leos at Madaraka. Mean Machine host Homeboyz at UON as Impala travel to Nakuru to take on Menengai Oilers while Nakuru host Nondies at Nakuru Athletic Club. Fixtures Mwamba vs Blakblad 2pm, RFUEA (Live Broadcast) Harlequins vs Kabras RFC 4pm, RFUEA (Live Broadcast) Strathmore vs KCB 4pm, Madaraka Mean Machine vs Homeboyz, 4pm UON Nakuru vs Nondescripts, 4pm Nakuru NAC Menengai Oilers vs Impala, 4pm Nakuru ASK