The government has dismissed claims that some staff at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport will lose their jobs if KQ takes over from KAA. Transport CS James Macharia said as a result of continuous engagements between the government and representatives of the workers, the Civil Aviation Workers Union has decided to suspend the strike notice issued against KAA to allow for further consultations. This comes after the CS and COTU boss Francis Atwoli held a meeting with the officials of the Kenya Civil Aviation Workers Union, led by their Secretary-General Moses Ndiema, and the KAA Management to address grievances raised by the aviation workers. “...I emphasized the proposed partnership between the Kenya Airports Authority and Kenya Airways, under which KQ will manage operations at JKIA, will not lead to job losses at KAA as has been reported in sections of the media,” Macharia said. He added, “I also need to emphasize the final structure of the proposed partnership between KQ and KAA has not been finalized as discussions are still ongoing between various stakeholders to ensure that the final partnership arrangement is in the best interest of all affected parties”. This comes after a section of business operators at Jomo Kenyatta International Airport opposed the proposals to have Kenya Airways manage the airport for 30 years. To express their displeasure, they planned to boycott today’s forum on the Privately Initiated Investment Proposal (PIIP). In an unsigned statement, the group drawn from the hospitality, transport and service sectors said they will boycott the forum because they have not been provided with details. ‘’We know nothing about the PIIP. They should consider postponing the forum to enable us study the proposal,’’ the group said in the statement. They further questioned Kenya Airway’s ability to manage other entities when its own management has failed, sinking in debts. “Kenya Airways owes Kenya Airport Authority (KAA) and the Kenya Civil Aviation Authority (KCAA) billions. It makes sense for KAA and KCAA to convert KQ’s debts into equity and manage it. Not the other way round,” the group said. See: Kenya Airways plan to run JKIA shelved But KQ's chairman Michael Joseph maintained it makes more operational and financial sense for the airline to run JKIA. This includes ground handling, maintenance, catering, warehousing, and cargo. “If we are allowed to operate JKIA, we will have one source to re-invent the airport and build economies of scales,” Joseph said. Speaking to the Star on phone, the ex-Safaricom CEO Michael Joseph said the airport needs necessary improvement in its terminals and facilities that have been wanting for the last 15 years. Read: JKIA operations need a total overhaul –Joseph