Champions KCB host Impala in a mouth-watering Kenya Cup clash at the Lion’s Den in Ruaraka today. The holders, who lie second on the log with 40 points, will be seeking to keep tabs with runaway league leaders Kabras, who top the standings on 44 points. The bankers have made four changes to the side that thrashed Strathmore Leos 43-8 in Madaraka. Kenya Simbas’ captain Davies Chenge makes his first start of the season after a nagging shoulder injury and will start in the second row. Chenge replaces Nick Ongeri. Scrum-half Samuel Asati replaces Michael Wanjala (bench), Essau Otieno comes in for Brian Omondi (bench) as the second five-eighth while Kenya 7’s captain Jacob Ojee starts on the blind wing, replacing Stafford Abeka. Felix Ojoo is back on the blind-side, swapping with Brian Nyikuli (bench) as KCB seek a ninth win of the season. KCB have had good record against the Sarries, beating them 15-0 in the Kenya Cup semis and winning 20-17 in the Impala Floodlit final in October. Head coach Curtis Olago said he is expecting a stern test from the visitors. “It will be a tough match. We know Impala play an expansive game and we will be keen to keep the ball tight in the forwards and play territory. This means we will have two contrasting game plans from both sides,” said Olago. On their part, Impala ended their four-match win-less streak last weekend by beating Menengai Oliers 24-22 in Nakuru. The Sarries had to come from behind after trailing 21-7 at one point. Head coach Frank Ndong has handed Ugandan Saul Kivumbi his debut for today’s showdown from the bench that has also Edmund Anya, Richard Sidingi and Kevin Okeyo. Sammy Oliech is back to the fray after sitting out in the win over Oilers and takes over from Sidindi at fullback as Xavier Bett starts at fly-half in a move that will see Antony Nyandigisi move to midfield and Samson Onsomu traditionally at number 9. The only front-row change will see Davies Makori replace Edwin Gatungo (bench). In the backline, Derrick Mayar (blind wing) replaces Bradley Ochieng. Ndong has urged his side to go for the win and cement their place in the playoff positions.