 What a tragedy was played out on pages 4 to 5 of
Tuesday’s Star! The Chief Justice — who so boldly told the President
that he was not a presidential project, when Uhuru Kenyatta tried to use David Maraga’s
appointment as an electioneering tactic with the Kisii — stands accused of undermining
the independence of the Judiciary by caving in to presidential pressure in
“reshuffling” some judges. Some judges
are accused of “rubbing the Executive up the wrong way” and thus making
themselves vulnerable to being penalised. On page 5 we have the legislative
Rottweiler, Moses Kuria, getting his teeth specifically into Justice Chacha
Mwita (currently the most high profile of the “reshuffled” judges). He growls
menacingly at the Chief Justice, too. And the
President is accused of what would be clearly improper pressure on the Judiciary
to get certain judges out of the executive’s hair. Interestingly,
this development followed hard on the heels of the announcement last Friday
about the Judiciary’s response to the anti-corruption campaign and the need to
ensure the courts play their part. A perfectly reasonable statement. But now, Judge
A  is moved to where Judge B has been; Judge
B is moved to where Judge C has been, Judge C is moved to where Judge A  has been; Judge D is moved to where Judge E
has been while Judge E is moved to where Judge D has been. And all this, the CJ
says, is “following an assessment of the needs and resources of the Judiciary”.
Really?  IS THERE A PROBLEM WITH
CJ’S ACTIONS? Every law student is imbued with the notion that
justice should not only be done, but should manifestly (clearly) be seen to be
done. In other words, as much damage is done to the legal system, if people
believe that justice is not being done as if justice is actually not being
done. It’s not that appearance is all: Both reality and appearance must be there.
This is just as true of the Judiciary’s administrative decisions as of its
legal ones. Even if the CJ is truly actuated by a need for moving judicial
resources, no one is going to believe it. And imagine the impact on individual
judges: Will they not get a message that, “If you irritate the President too
much you will find yourself summarily transferred”? And an aggrieved judge might be tempted to sue the CJ
for breach of the constitutional duty to make administrative decisions –that are
“lawful, reasonable and procedurally fair”.  TRANSFER PROCEDURES There are guidelines for transferring judges. They include
that “Judicial Officers
due for transfer should be given adequate notice so that they can dispense with
their present workload and organize family affairs”. The normal
approximate tenure of posting for each Judicial Officer is three years, though
there is room for flexibility. Longer and there is fear that judges will become
too close to some people. Also,
“Transfers will not be employed as a disciplinary tool”. In 1981, the Supreme
Court of India stressed the same point, adding, “Undoubtedly, when a judge is
transferred by the Government because he does not toe the line of the executive
or gives decisions against the Executive or has for some reason or the other
fallen from its grace, it would be a transfer by way of punishment. “ The same
court commented on the secrecy of the process: “The mystique of this process is
kept secret and confidential between just a few individuals, … and the
possibility cannot therefore be ruled out that howsoever highly placed may be
these individuals, the process may on occasions result in making of wrong
appointments and transfers and may also at times, though fortunately very rarely,
lend itself to nepotism, political as well as personal and even trade-off.” Rules and guidelines serve various purposes. To avoid
unfairness is obviously one, as is enhancing efficiency. Another is to offer a
basis for resisting pressure to act unfairly. “I am sorry, I can’t do that; we
have procedures that we must follow unless there is good reason”. In this case,
the guidelines have values attached, including “i Openness and transparency” and “ii.
Predictability”. We should
recognise that sometimes a judge may wish, or even apply, to be transferred
away from a “hot seat”. Few people focus on the enormous strain that it must
place on judges to be asked constantly to decide that what government has done
is wrong.  IF JUDGES ERR Judges may be wrong, seriously or less so,
persistently or occasionally, or may be influenced by politics or even money. There
is probably no judge who has never been wrong — if the legal answer to an issue
was simple, it would be sensible not to go to court in the first place. But for
judges to be persistently wrong (so incompetent) or deliberately perverse
influenced by financial or political decisions would also be a tragedy,
especially when the judges have so crucial a role in implementing the
constitution. It is
obviously equally a tragedy if some judge has been giving, without
justification, escape routes for accused persons facing prosecution. But for any of these things, transfer is not the
solution. If a judge is making poor decisions, there is a
procedure to deal with it. Those aggrieved can appeal. If the matter is urgent
the court calendar can ensure it is dealt with promptly. It is
perfectly in order for a head of division to have quiet word with a judge who
is making mistakes. And judges
who take bribes or bow to political influence should not be holding office and
there are procedures for their removal.  JUSTICE MWITA So how about
Justice Mwita’s decision about Justice Warsame and the Judicial Service
Commission? The judge was faced last month with the failure of the President to
carry out his duty as perfectly reasonably (and constitutionally correctly) pointed
out to him by the same judge in July last year. That presidential duty was
simply to formally appoint Justice Warsame, elected by the Court of Appeal
judges to be a member of the JSC, to that position. Under the law, the President
should have done so within three days of receiving Warsame’s name, in March
last year. I must to
confess to some doubt about whether it was right to say that no oath was needed
when the judge was elected for a second JSC term. MPs are sworn in again when
they are re-elected. Once a term ends, you are no longer the holder of an
office. And elected JSC members do not have their terms extended, though they
may be elected for a second term, but not until after the first has ended. But was the
judge supposed to say, “Justice Warsame should have been formally appointed, sworn
in and be sitting as a member of the JSC for months now, but there is nothing I
can do about this because I cannot force the President to act”? As he pointed
out, judges are supposed to provide a remedy for illegalities. Possibly a
compromise would have been to declare the judge formally appointed, and that
the Chief Justice should swear him in. This would have put the CJ on even more
of a collision course with the President, of course!  THE FINAL TRAGEDY Another
aspect is the attitude of our Executive, above all of the President from whom
we ought to be able to expect some moral leadership, and dignified restraint.
But not for Kenyans the statesmanlike approach of Nelson Mandela.  As our own former CJ, Willy Mutunga said of
him, “By honouring court summons to testify, publicly acknowledging and
accepting court orders that reversed his decisions, Mandela personified respect
for rule of law, independence of the Judiciary and the principle of separation
of powers at a delicate moment of political transition in a fragmented and
divided society. By choosing the path of allegiance to law, Mandela cast
himself on the right side of history. It made him bigger, not smaller.” 