Weeks after reuniting with the struggling Kenya Premier League side Mt Kenya United, Melis Medo has revealed the secret behind the club’s renaissance since his return. Medo was re-hired by the rebranded outfit on January 29 after throwing in the towel at Sofapaka and since his return, the American coach has guided the club to end a 10-match win-less run in he ongoing Premier League season. United had lost seven out of the opening ten rounds under the stewardship of Anthony Mwangi but the arrival of Medo marked the beginning of change of tides as the club won their 11th round against league leaders Mathare United before caging AFC Leopards in the subsequent match to move from the bottom of the log for the first time in the season. Medo, who had miraculously aided the club to keep their top flight status last season during the Kenya Premier League/Football Kenya Federation playoff match against Ushuru, decamped to Sofapaka in November but after series of unwanted results he resigned late in January to reunite with his former employers. His short stint at Sofapaka ended sourly as the 2009 league champions won one out of the seven league rounds he was in charge. He, however, had a bright start of life at Mt. Kenya United, winning twice in three matches—a run he credits to his players dedication and their ability to grasp his philosophy with ease. Medo admitted to have found a disorganised unit under Mwangi and was forced to restore order and discipline which he believes has delivered the 2-1 and 1-0 wins against Mathare United and AFC Leopards. “When I rejoined the club, I found everything was out of order. From training to the style of play was pathetic and I had to restore order and discipline in the players. This helped in our matches against Mathare and Leopards. If you are keen, you will realise we are playing differently and the work rate of the players has shot up. The mentality of the players has changed and it’s evident they are now playing good football even though they are yet to play to the standard I want them to play.” In a move aimed at evading relagation, Medo hinted of signing four players to beef his squad once the transfer window is open. He identified a goalkeeper, two defenders and and a striker as his priority in the transfer market and did not shy from reuniting with the four players he crossed with to Sofapaka. Medo had raided United for the services of four players—John Avire, Cornelius Juma, Tom Adwar and Faina Jacobs and he hasn’t locked them from returning home. “This club need four players and we will be serious competitors in the league. I want a goalkeeper, two defenders and a striker and we will good to go. The door is open to the players I signed at Sofapaka.”