The budget-making process for 2019-20 in Siaya will start from the sublocation upwards instead of at the ward level. Ugunja ward administrator Vincent Oduor on Tuesday said public participation will begin in the 17 sublocations to capture more views from the public. Oduor spoke in his Ugunja office during a meeting with four ward administrators on the budget-making process. He said a development team and assistant chief will work with ward administrators to collect the public’s views on the status of projects. This will increase public participation on budget proposal, implementation and participation before moving to the subcounty level for endorsement. The person tasked to guide the process should be well informed on the status of projects before informing the public of the successes and challenges faced during its implementation, he said. “The facilitator should assure the public that the stalled projects of the past financial year will be given priority,” the administrator said. Oduor urged other administrators to ensure the public identifies a flagship project, instead of knee-jerk projects that are not cost effective and might stall in future. Sh2,500 allowance Members said they were up to the task, which began on Friday and ends on Thursday. Budget officer John Komira said his team had provided transport, logistics, Sh500 airtime for each assistant chief and Sh1,000 for the administrators’ lunch. This is a total of Sh2,500 for the six-day process. Members, however, objected the allocation, saying it was too little, and requested Sh2,500 per day. Oduor directed each administrator to guide the process to its completion. Ward administrators will be required to draft minutes for every baraza attended ahead of the ward meeting next Friday. The ward team was urged to work with the one from the county headquarters to avoid confusion. Oduor said the forthcoming supplementary budget will target six key agenda: Health, education, enterprise, water, agriculture and infrastructure.