Kenyans are morning the death of pioneer athlete Nyantika Maiyoro who died on Sunday. Another athlete former Commonwealth Games javelin bronze medallist John Mayaka also passed away on Saturday. Maiyoro, 88, died on Sunday evening at Chrita Marianne Hospital in Kisii town while Mayaka died on Saturday at Nyamira Level 4 Hospital, according to his daughter Stella Mayaka. Maiyoro's son Kennedy said his father suffered breathing problems shortly before he died at 8 pm. He had been admitted to the facility three weeks ago suffering from chest problems. When he spoke to the Star from his hospital bed last week, Maiyoro asked the government to save his land at Isoge Settlement Scheme from grabbers. He said former President Jomo Kenyatta gave it to him. Last week, the National Olympic Committee of Kenya and Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i pledged to clear Maiyoro's hospital bill after the family appealed for help. During President Uhuru Kenyatta’s visit to Kisii last week, the retired athlete's plight was highlighted. Nyaribari Chache MP Richard Tong’i was tasked to make a follow-up. Athletics Kenya (AK) president Jackson Tuwei and Nock president Paul Tergat have sent their messages of condolences. "I have learned with great shock the double tragedy in Gusiiland, which has robbed us of John Mayaka, who was a great javelin thrower and Nyantika Maiyoro," Tuwei said. "I join the athletics family during this sad moment and urge fellow athletes to join the families of the departed colleagues in prayers." Former Nock president Kipchoge Keino said it is said to lose pioneer athletes like Maiyoro in such circumstances. "I send my personal condolences and those of pioneer athletes to the family, friends and relatives of the late Maiyoro," Keino said. "We are mourning great athletes who rose through difficulty to the apex of his careers during those formative years of Kenya scaling the heights of global athletics success," AK Nyanza South chairman Peter Angwenyi said in his message of condolence. AK public relations officer Evans Bosire also condoled with the families of Nyantika and Mayaka. “It’s a very sad time for us to lose two heroes. May the Almighty Father guide the families of Mzee Nyantika and Mzee Mayaka," Bosire said. Maiyoro first represented Kenya together with Kanuti Sum and high jumper Joseph Leresae at the 1956 Olympic Games in Melbourne, Australia when the country was still a British colony. He finished 7th in the 5,000m race. He went on to represent Kenya in several other championships. Mayaka who was born on in 1948 in Nyamira. He participated at the 1974 Commonwealth Games in Christchurch, New Zealand, and 1978 in Edmonton. His best throws were 77.56 metres in Christchurch and 70 metres in Edmonton. Click here for the latest political news 