In their winding-up report after six years in office, members of the National Land Commission say they did well but challenges held them back. One key problem cited is the prolonged turf wars between the NLC and the Lands ministry on land administration. The conflicts, they say, led to confusion in management of public land in the country. “The ministry and the commission need to strictly adhere to the Constitution, land laws and regulations to avoid duplication of efforts, so as to ensure efficient service delivery to the public,” the commissioners recommended. As part of the success, the report says the commission carried out the review of grants and dispositions in almost counties for lands illegally acquired since the 1960s, but the five-year timeline elapsed before they could conclusively address all claims that kept streaming in. The report says the volume of public land irregularly allocated to individuals remains high. “In this regard, the commission proposes that Parliament enacts legislation to provide for the permanent and continuous review of grants and disposition of public land,” the commission recommended. Despite the challenges, the commission said it actively reviewed the legality of over 5,000 grants on public land in various parts of the country and recommended the revocation of those unlawfully acquired. “In addition, the commission compulsorily acquired land for various public usage since 2013 for more than 77 projects at a combined cost of about Sh38.27 billion,” they said. Difficulties in accessing crucial land records and data from relevant authorities affected services in the processing of land administration, the commission said, calling for digitisation of land records as a solution. “The ministry and the commission should also develop clear guidelines on access and sharing of land data by the two institutions. Digitisation of all land records and land administration transactions will promote efficiency, reduce bureaucracy and ease access to records,” the report says. In six years, there were also 1,820 fresh court cases challenging the commission's functions, processes and decisions. The commission had also over 7,000 cases inherited from the defunct office of the commissioner of lands. The injunctions and court orders stalled and delayed implementation of land reforms, the report says. Resistance to change, lack of goodwill, inadequate staff, office space, working tools and budget constraints were also cited as the main hindrances the commission faced.  OWE PUBLIC APOLOGY Two weeks ago, Abdikadir Khalif, a commissioner, told the Nation newspaper the team had not performed to expectations, and that they owed the public an apology. He regretted they missed out because they failed to implement past reports on irregular land allocations. “It was a major oversight to have ignored the recommendations made by the Ndung’u and Njonjo reports on land reforms, and list of public assets marked for recovery in those reports. We should have applied for timeline extensions to accomplish one of our foundational mandates,” Khalif was quoted saying. He accused the Lands ministry of ignoring their recommendations on irregular land dealings. “An example is the Karura forest in Nairobi, where individuals are still holding title deeds. The chief registrar at the Lands ministry is yet to expunge those title deeds from the records, despite recommendations by the NLC. Until the lands registrar acts, the forest land remains at risk of conversion by title holders,” Khalif warned.