Kenya Prisons suffered another blow after setter Jane Wacu announced that she will not be featuring for them at the next month’s Africa Club Championship in Cairo, Egypt. The move comes days after Prisons failed to capture six of their target players from Kwanthanze Secondary School last month. National women’s volleyball team setter said she has been forced to focus on her Seychelles’ side, Anse Royale, after they booked a slot in next month’s Africa Club show. Wacu, who renewed her contract with the club last month, captained the team to second place behind eventual winner Quatre Borne from Mauritius during the Cup of Nations Zone Championships. Triangle Bar from Mauritius settled for third position. Wacu said she is happy that in her first time in charge of the team, they have qualified for the club championship after missing out last year. She said: “It is humbling that an outsider can be entrusted to guide the team in such an event and I must say I felt loved and appreciated. I had no choice but to push the team and myself to the limit to perform and I’m happy the efforts paid off. Guiding the club to emerge position two is perhaps the sweetest thing that has ever happened to me.” “Now we have to wait and see what plans are in place from the club management ahead of the Africa Club Championship.” The former Tetu secondary school player said should they be fielded in the African bonanza, it will be interesting to see how she fares against Kenya teams including her Prisons side, Kenya Commercial Bank and former champions Kenya Pipeline. “There will be mixed feelings and emotions but the job has to be done at the end of the day. Of course, I will be excited to see my fellow players from Kenya but first things first, and since it is a competition, I have  the obligation of ensuring that we remain competitive just like our rivals. For now, we just have to wait and see what plans are in place,” said Wacu. This is the second time Wacu will fail to play for her home club Kenya Prisons’ in the Africa show having missed last year’s edition where the wardresses placed fourth overall. The three Kenyan representatives have already kicked off training in readiness for the continental championships. KCB, Kenya Pipeline and champions Kenya Prisons are all training at the indoor gymnasium at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani. KCB have recruited heavily this year and are being touted as the next big thing in the volleyball circles. The bankers raided Kenya Pipeline and took off with six players while the Oilers hit Prisons’ recruitment base and signed the same number of players mostly rookies.