Families have fled the volatile Arabal in Baringo South after an attack that left five people dead, including children, on Thursday dawn. The attack is suspected to have been carried out by Pokot cattle rustlers. Kiserian assistant chief Linet Shikamoi yesterday said the more than 100 residents have moved towards Marigat with their over 2,000 cattle. She said the victims are temporarily staying at Kiserian, Elbunyaki, Lokumkum, Ng’ambo, Sintaan, Salabani and Long’eywan. “Tension is high. The place is becoming unbearable and people had to flee for their lives,” she said. Four of those killed in the Thursday dawn attack were students – one was from Kiserian primary, Sokotei primary (two), Sokotei secondary (one) schools. Shikamoi said the fifth victim was a National Police Reservist, who was on routine security patrol. “The children were home for the mid-term break and they had gone to the herders in the grazing field, before they met their deaths,” she said. Shikamoi said they hope to return to Arabal once things normalise. Arabal, which is rich in pasture, is inhabited by the Tugen and Ilchamus. Attack Baringo county police commander Robinson Ndiwa said the attackers raided two temporary shelters in the bush at 3am. “They drove away a number of livestock but we managed to recover all through the efforts of residents, the GSU, RDU and NPR,” he said. Ndiwa said the attack was a surprise because the place had been peaceful and the herders had let their guard down and left their animals to graze freely. MP Charles Kamuren urged the government to beef up security. “My people demand peace so I appeal to the security department to take charge and flush out the bandits,” he said. Kamuren said a disarmament operation should be carried out. The legislator urged Interior CS Fred Matiang’i to weed out the criminals to prevent a “return to the dark days”. Read: Baringo herder shot, 30 cows stolen after bandits overpower police “My constituency was peaceful. We had succeeded in helping the government resettle the displaced victims of insecurity back to Mukutani,” Kamuren said. He said schools, which were closed down in 2005 had been reopened in January. People were going about their normal activities before the sudden attack, he said. Kamuren urged residents to stay calm as the government resolves the problem. The state has also been urged to compensate the affected families and meet the burial expenses. Marigat-based human rights activist Amos Ol’empaka urged the government to deploy surveillance helicopter to pursue the bandits. He said they might still be hiding in the bushes nearby. leave In September last year, two officers – an NPR and a RDU – were injured in an ambush by suspected armed Pokot bandits in Ramacha village in the subcounty. They were accompanying the Tugen and Ilchamus residents’ in a bush clearing operation to resettle thousands of people who were displaced by bandits since 2005. Last year in August, Baringo South MP Charles Kamuren told Pokot herders to leave the constituency, saying “enough is enough”. Kamuren had said his top agenda was to resettle thousands of members of the Tugen and Ilchamus pastoral communities, who had been displaced by Pokot bandits since 2005 in Mukutani, Arabal, Ruggus and Noosukro. “The listed areas fall under Baringo South so I, being the people’s father, want Pokots to assemble their livestock and leave before I am sworn-in,” he had said. The legislator had told the herders to go away from Sirata, Kiserian, Ramacha, Kapndasum, Embossos, Ngelecha and Lokumkum.He claimed the Pokots could have been eyeing a boundary change but said he would not allow it. Baringo county is inhabited by the Tugen, Pokot and Ilchamus pastoral communities, which Kamuren said he wanted to unite. Click here for the latest political news