Sneh was 15 when she started menstruating. The first time she bled, she had no idea what was happening to her. "I was very scared. I thought I was sick with something very serious and began crying," she told me when I visited her home in Kathikhera village not far from Delhi earlier this week. "I didn't have the courage to tell my mother so I confided in my aunt. She said: 'You're a grown woman now, don't cry, it's normal.' It was her who told my mother." Sneh, now 22, has travelled a long way from that point. She works in a small factory in her village that makes sanitary pads and is the protagonist of Period. End of Sentence., a documentary that has been nominated for an Oscar. She will be attending Sunday's ceremony in Los Angeles. The film came about after a student group in North Hollywood used crowdfunding to send a pad-making machine - and Iranian-American filmmaker Rayka Zehtabchi - to Sneh's village. Just 115km (71 miles) from Delhi, Kathikhera village in Hapur district is a world far removed from the glitzy malls and high-rises of the Indian capital. Normally, it's a two-and-a-half-hour drive from Delhi, but construction work on the highway slows it down to four hours for us. And the final 7.5km drive to the village from Hapur town is a crawl, on narrow winding roads lined with open drains on both sides. The documentary is filmed in the farms and fields - and classrooms - of Kathikhera. Like in the rest of India, periods are a taboo topic; menstruating women are considered impure and barred from entering religious places and often excluded from social events too.Presentational white space. With so much stigma surrounding the issue, it's no surprise that Sneh had never heard of periods before she started getting them herself. "It was not a topic that was discussed - even among girls," she says. But things began to change when Action India, a charity that works on reproductive health issues, set up a sanitary napkin manufacturing unit in Kathikhera. Click here for the latest political news