Nominated city MCAs will have benefits like those of their elected counterparts if the county enforces its plan to get them offices and personal assistants. Majority leader Abdi Guyo on Tuesday said the legislators’ request will be considered in the next budget. The assembly has 39 nominated members — 36 women and two men. “Nominated MCAs deserve equal treatment. I will make sure they budget for their offices and personal assistants because they must perform the same roles of oversight, legislation and representation as those elected,” he said. The issue was raised by Majority whip Chege Waithera who complained no budget had been allocated to nominated members in this financial year. “The nominated members are part of the House but have been working without offices, which is inconvenient. They need permanent structures,” he said. New block According to the 2019-20 County Annual Development Plan, City Hall will spend Sh400 million to build new offices but only for elected MCAs. The new administration block will be built in the parking space between Taifa Road and City Hall Way. Construction will start this year. “Currently, 53 ward representatives out of 85 are accommodated in rented offices. The remaining 32 offices are dilapidated and in need of quick attention,” it reads. The county assembly resumed sittings on Tuesday after a long recess. The members promised a drama-free year. The House has become synonymous with fistfights. This will have to change, they said. Meanwhile, the 22 assembly committees will have their members shuffled to improve efficiency. Members will be required to participate fully in meetings. On Tuesday, the House passed a motion approving appointment of members to the Select Committee on Assembly Business. “The select committee will restructure all the committees. You can’t be in the Budget committee when you can’t even construct a simple English sentence. We must put people where they fit,” Guyo said. The committee sets the agenda of the House throughout the session and it is chaired by acting Speaker Chege Mwaura. Other members are Majority leader Guyo, Minority leader Elias Okumu, Majority whip Waithera Chege, Minority whip Peter Imwatok, Deputy Speaker John Kamangu, Peter Warutere, John Kamau, Antony Kiragu and Milicent Mugadi. Patricia Musyimi, Rose Ogonda, Moses Ogeto, David Njihia, Osman Khalif, Esther Nyangweso, Wilfred Odalo and James Kariuki complete the list.