DusitD2 hotel is set to re-open in June 2019 almost six months after the terror attack on January 15 that left 21 people dead. Four of the deceased were full-time employees and two were contracted security staff of the hotel. However, no guests were harmed in the attack. “The spirit of determination that runs through the entire 14 Riverside community is heartening to see, and the support from everyone has been and continues to be, incredible," Michael Metaxas, General Manager of DusitD2 said on Tuesday. He continued, "This positive energy is driving us as we prepare the hotel to delight guests and visitors once more with delightful service, impressive design, and safe and comfortable surroundings for people to socialise, stay and conduct business.” The Chief Operating Officer Lim Boon Kwee, said, “While we are still deeply affected by the recent events at the 14 Riverside complex, morale is high and everyone is pulling together to create a special return for the hotel. As ever, the safety and well-being of our guests and employees remain our priority, and we will continue to have rigorous security procedures in place that contribute to the high levels of comfort and care for which we are known worldwide.” The attack on DusitD2 hotel complex on 14 Riverside Drive was in retaliation for US President Donald Trump's decision to declare Jerusalem the capital city of Israel, al Shabaab said. SITE Intelligence Group, an NGO that specialises in tracking and analysing global extremist groups, said the jihadists presented a detailed report on the attack through its media unit al-Mujahideen Movement. However, the SITE did not reveal the details of the report apart from mentioning that al-Qaeda leader Ayman al-Zawahiri ordered the attack. The report said Zawahiri directed the militants to target "Western and Zionist" interests in response to Trump's announcement. Read More: Dusit attack revenge for US declaration of Jerusalem as Israel's capital - Shabaab Also Read: Why scribes left duty for higher honour at DusitD2 Click here for the latest political news.