Bondo residents have decried the high number of maternal deaths in Bondo sub county hospital due to what they termed as negligence by the management. The residents led by West Asembo MCA Ambrose Akuno regretted that in the last one month more than five mothers have lost their lives while giving birth and those who survived lost their infants. The residents complained that the only active place in Bondo Hospital is the mortuary and not the outpatient or the inpatient departments. "The facility is always dormant. The pharmacy is closed by 5.00 pm when the hospital is supposed to operate 24 hours," Vitalis Juma, a resident said. Juma added that they were shocked when the hospital awarded the mortuary attendant as the over role hardworking worker in the facility. "This means that the hospital does not value patients but dead people that instead of motivating outpatient and inpatient nurses and doctors they award a mortuary attendant," he added. The hospital's situation angered area MCA Ambrose Akuno forcing him to storm the facility on Friday in a fact-finding mission. Akuno said his one hour visit to the hospital confirmed his fears when he found less than five nurses on duty with a host of medical students manning the facility. "How does a Level Four hospital operate with less than five nurses and the pharmacy closed by 5:00 pm?" Akuno posed. He asked Governor Cornel Rasanga to address the status of Bondo hospital within the shortest time possible. "If the governor is not going to conduct a total overhaul in the management of the hospital and the board in the next one week, am going to conduct the mother of all strikes in Bondo," Akuno said. The MCA's appeal comes barely a week after a mother died while giving birth in the same facility. The late Mary Adhiambo, 26, who gave birth through a cesarean section, died on the operating table from what the family claims as a case of negligence by the facility's management. The hospital’s Medical Superintendent Willis Ochieng, however, insisted the doctors tried their best to save Adhiambo's life. Ochieng, who regretted the death, said preliminary findings indicate the woman died as a result of excessive bleeding. He further denied reports that the operation was done by unqualified persons, saying there was a team of nine doctors who helped to save her life. “We took the woman to the theatre for the second time after realising abnormal bleeding but she did not make it out of the theatre,” he added. But Akuno insisted Ochieng should be arrested for mismanagement of the hospital. The MCA also revealed that an internal audit report showed how over Sh1.9 million from the hospital's coffers cannot be accounted for. He asked the EACC to intervene in the matter. Ochieng declined to address journalists over the issue saying he is not authorised to address the media. The county Health executive Dorothy Owino also asked for time to release a comprehensive report about the issue on Monday. Click here for the latest political news