Two lovers from Gituamba village in Mirangine, Nyandarua county, have died under mysterious circumstances. Samuel Kamau, 57, and Lucy Matu, 40, died on Wednesday night after a drinking spree at Makara shopping Centre in Mirangine. Their families maintain they died after consuming a killer brew at a pub at Makara. Some residents, however, maintain there could be more than just alcohol that killed the two. Peris Matu, on Thursday, said her sister, Lucy, is a habitual drunkard, and always travels for about 2.5km to Makara for a drink. She said on Wednesday it appeared the mother of three consumed something else other than what she is used to. Her sister was brought home by residents in critical condition. They rushed her to the Nakuru Provincial General Hospital where she was pronounced dead on arrival. Peris said after returning home, they received reports the next morning that Kamau was found dead outside Club Rockers at Makara shopping Centre. Kamau’s younger brother, Stephen Kariuki, said although his brother is a habitual drunkard, his drinking behaviour deteriorated since last Sunday. Kariuki said he appeared like someone who had gone mad and even sold all his maize to get money for drinking. However, some residents suspect the couple, who always drank together, were poisoned. Others suspect that one of the two poisoned the other before committing suicide. Kamau was found with a pesticide, Duo dip, which is used to control ticks in his pocket. Lucy’s nephew, David Matu said the poison could have been planted on Kamau to conceal the truth. Area Chief, Peter Juma, confirmed the chemical that was found in Kamau’s pocket but did not divulge more details. Mirangine deputy county commissioner, Omar Ali, said the two died under unknown circumstances. He said investigations have been launched, adding that an autopsy would soon reveal the cause of the two deaths. Ali said only then would the authorities give a comprehensive report of the incident. Residents said alcohol consumption in the area had increased to worrying levels as they were sold from as early as 6 am. They urged the government to intervene to avert more alcohol-related deaths. Click here for the latest political news