 There has been an
ongoing political discussion about a constitutional referendum and its
potential changes to the current political structure of the Republic of Kenya. As Ambassador of
Switzerland to Kenya, I must emphasize that it is entirely up to the Kenyan
politicians and the Kenyan people, whether or not a referendum would be in the
interest of the country and what it should be about. As a guest in Kenya, I
will not engage in this debate, which belongs to Kenyans alone. Nonetheless the debate
does occasionally bring up interesting details that a foreigner like myself
might help to clarify. Here and there,
reference has been made to the Swiss governmental system with its yearly
rotating presidency; to Switzerland’s federalism; and to our political
inclusivity. Switzerland has a
rotating presidency and normally the name of the President of the Swiss
Confederation would be a mystery to most people outside Switzerland. However, after last
year’s successful visit by the President of the Swiss Confederation to Kenya, a
good number of Kenyans will have read about and seen our dynamic President
Alain Berset, who served in this position in 2018.  THREE
PRESIDENTS IN 18 MONTHS The name of this
year’s Swiss President is Ueli Maurer – a veteran Swiss political leader who
was President in 2013 for his first time, and is thus not a newcomer to the
Swiss presidency. Just to indicate
further how unusual the Swiss political system is, I should explain that when
the proposal for a presidential visit to Kenya was first mooted back in 2017,
at that time the President of the Swiss Federation was a distinguished lady,
Doris Leuthard, who had been a member of the Swiss Federal Council since 2006. That comes to a total
of three presidents over a period of just 18 months. This kind of scenario
in the political arena – with its apparently rapid turnover of presidents –
would in most parts of the world, suggest great political turmoil in the
country where this happened, and possibly carry a threat of potentially tragic
consequences. And yet in Switzerland,
this is the long-established norm. Nobody, however, capable or charismatic, gets
to be Federal President for more than one year at a time. And even then, while
serving as President, he or she is but one of a collegial group guiding the
affairs of the country. How did Switzerland
arrive at this unique political system? Here a little diversion into Swiss
history is necessary.  SHORT
WAR BETWEEN BROTHERS  In the 1830s and
1840s, politicians of what is today Switzerland hotly debated whether the
country should be a federation of existing small Cantons (counties) or a
centralised state. What had started as a
heated debate, unfortunately turned into a civil war. Liberals and
Conservatives, Protestants and Catholics fought against each other. Luckily for
my country, it was a short war between brothers, and so post-war reconciliation
was quite rapidly achieved. The Liberals and
Protestants won the war; the Conservatives and Catholics lost. Nevertheless,
the Liberals — mindful of the importance of reconciliation — were looking for a
model abroad to learn from. It is important to
note here that the challenge Switzerland faced is one that continues to trouble
many nations all over the world in the 21st Century: How to unite
diverse multi-lingual and multi-cultural communities and bring them together
into one cohesive and peaceful nation. Or, as my friends in
the NGO sector would say, “Creating inclusivity within diversity”. In addressing this
challenge, the Swiss Federal Constitution of 1848 introduced a federal system
guaranteeing the Cantons (counties) large autonomy and decision-making power —
a kind of devolved system like in today’s Kenya. That was important for
the Catholics because it meant they were given the opportunity to continue to
rule at least their own Cantons. In other words, the founding fathers made an
effort to ensure they did not create a liberal regime which might be perceived
to work against the Catholics.   WHY
SWITZERLAND OPTED FOR WEAK PRESIDENCY  The Swiss federal
institutions were based on the blueprint of the successful American Republic
with a House of Representatives and a Senate. However, critically and fundamentally,
in contrast to the US Constitution, the Swiss founding fathers established a
weak Presidency. Why did Switzerland
make this radical – and in some ways, unprecedented – decision to opt for a
weak presidency? Well it was because,
while the Swiss founding fathers were looking to the US for their new
institutional and governmental set-up, they adapted certain institutions to the
Swiss historic reality and to the political culture of the newly born Swiss
Confederation. The US, coming out of an independence war, felt clearly the need
for a strong Presidency. On the other hand,
Switzerland, just coming out of a civil war in 1847, was looking for domestic
peace. The Swiss Federal Constitution of 1848 established a collegial
government (Federal Council) with seven members, who together would decide,
administer and govern. Moreover, right from
the beginning, the Swiss Parliament elected Federal Councillors who represented
the totality of the Swiss population. The Federal Council almost inevitably had
at least one French, German and Italian speaking member of government – and
from time to time one from the tiny Romansch speaking minority. Protestants and
Catholics — who had fought each other in 1847 — were elected in the Federal
Council and sat in the same room discussing governmental matters. The Federal
Council was first fully under the control of the Liberal Party. But after 1891,
politicians from other parties (first the Conservatives, then the Socialists,
and the Swiss Farmers Party) were elected turning the Federal Council into a
multi-party executive. In the 1990s, a
representative of the Jewish Community was elected as Federal Councillor.
Finally, women entered the political stage and became members of government.
Today, three out of seven Federal Councillors are women.  REPRESENTATION  What are the lessons
that we may take from Switzerland’s history and its governmental system? First, and above all,
we must appreciate there is no possibility of “copy-pasting” a successful
political system. And most definitely not in the precise details of the
governing structure. Switzerland copied
certain institutions from the US – but adopted them to the Swiss reality. Second, the diversity
of Switzerland (in terms of languages, religion, regions, gender, and party
affiliation) is fully reflected in the Swiss government. Every Swiss citizen
feels represented by the Federal Council. Inclusivity has been
one of the cornerstones of Switzerland’s political success.  Ambassador of Switzerland to Kenya   