About five years ago, I was part of a group of about 30 writers and editors from all over Eastern and Southern Africa invited for a study tour by the Egyptian Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The highlight of this tour was an audience with the Egyptian President, Abdel Fattah el-Sisi. And, following publication of my laudatory account of how deeply impressed we all were at the calm and cerebral mastery with which the Egyptian President handled every question directed at him during this audience, I received both support and criticism. A contemptuous remark from an online critic, which will forever remain green in my memory, went something like this: “…all it took to confuse you is a visit to the pyramids, and the sight of a belly dancer...”. For, oddly enough, although it was only to be expected that we would at some point get to see the famous pyramids close-up, we also did have a belly dancer perform one night after dinner, at the hotel where we were staying. This was entertainment for all the guests in the hotel, much like the “traditional dancers” to be seen at some hotels here in Kenya. It had nothing to do with the official Egyptian government itinerary. And this exotic performance was greeted with loud and enthusiastic approval by the gentlemen of the press. More significantly, this trip was an eye-opener in very many practical ways too. For those of us from African nations dreaming of industrialisation, the most unforgettable visit was to the 10th of Ramadhan City, some 40 or so kilometres from Cairo. This trip held many surprises. The first surprise was that of size and location: imagine you are driving somewhere in the semi-arid Northern Kenya, seeing nothing but desert scrub for miles on end. (And in Egypt, this was not desert scrubland, but mostly pure and unmitigated sandy desert with not a plant in sight.) Then suddenly you find that there is this vast industrial complex “in the middle of nowhere”, with huge warehouse-like structures everywhere you look. We only had time to see the inside of about half a dozen of the factories in this huge industrial complex known as the 10th of Ramadhan City — reported to have a resident population of about half a million people. And if indeed there are factories in Kenya as massive as those at the 10th of Ramadhan City, then I have not seen them. But that was not the biggest surprise: Truly remarkable was that whether it was the vast pharmaceutical manufacturing unit, or the edible oils production complex; or the carpet factory (one of the largest in the world): in all these and other factories, the level of automation that had been incorporated into the production process was simply astonishing. Just a handful of engineers and technicians operated these huge manufacturing units, sitting far away from what you would call ‘the factory floor’ and controlling everything via computers. All this illustrates how difficult it will be for Kenya to generate employment opportunities in manufacturing, even though this is one of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four national priorities. Right now, the government is engaged in a commendable effort to bring down the cost of electricity. And until that happens, it is futile to talk about industrialisation as we simply cannot be competitive until our energy costs are reduced by approximately 50 per cent. And there are advanced plans for setting up a Special Economic Zone at the Coast, in imitation of the many SEZs in China, which in just a few decades helped bring hundreds of millions out of poverty by giving them factory jobs. But the chilling lesson from the 10th of Ramadhan City is that in the 21st Century, some of the more advanced manufacturing systems do not require very many employees to operate them at all. And that there is no guarantee of a direct causal link between the establishment of many new factories and the creation of millions of jobs for the emerging ‘youth bulge’ in Kenya.