Staff at the Immigration department at Nyayo House, Nairobi, are a concerned group. Reason? A small bird has whispered to corridors that in the recent days,members of a certain community have not only increased in number but have also taken strategic positions key in making critical decisions.The bird went ahead to say that if something is not done soon, they are likely to conduct their affairs in their mother tongue. The attention of Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua and Public Service CS Margaret Kobia should be thrown to this and probably consider ordering an ethnic audit. *** A managing director of a leading parastatal has reportedly fallen out with his girlfriend, a politician from Central Kenya. The MD, who according to our mole, has huge appetite for married women, now has a new catch. The middle-aged man is now dating a personal assistant to a senior official in the Ministry of Transport. According to the mole, the genesis of the fallout with the politician is that she is "ageing quickly and no longer fits his standards". The vocal politician is reportedly angry with the man for using and dumping her. **** Just why can't the leadership of a religious group in Kenya sort out the problems at their mission hospitals?. It's said the issues surrounding their two hospitals may soon divide the group. Reason? Those in the know say that a church leader has bulldozed his way to have several of his relatives head all the departments of the hospitals. Some church officials are bitter with the trend and are said to be planning to write to the church headquarters to intervene and help sort out the mess , which has seen at least Sh150 million withdrawn and wired to individual accounts. ** A city MCA recently shocked youths from his ward. A source has told corridors that the ward rep, who owns a pub in in his area, approached officers from the City Inspectorate Department to raid a rival's pub. When the officers arrived, they carried out a swoop arresting several patrons. When they were done with the arres, they extended the swoop to the nearest pub where they also arrested staff. Unfortunately, the pub is owned by the MCA who had organised the raid. When they inquired further, the MCA had also not paid for the licences. His staff were arrested as well. Feeling agitated since the plan had backfired, he pleaded with the officers to release his workers and detain the rival's who are voters in his ward. The youth who were detained overnight have threatened to storm his business and disrupt operations. Click here for the latest political news    