 In the days of British Raj, the government
of Delhi found there were plenty of cobras in the capital city. To prevent the deaths of British
imperialists from these venomous serpents, they hatched what they thought was a
brilliant idea to curb the cobra population. They launched a bounty program
where citizens were rewarded with cash for each dead cobra they brought
in.  Initially, this program worked like
gangbusters and the result was lots of dead cobras. Problem solved…or so the
British thought! Unfortunately for the British imperialists, the enterprising
locals started breeding cobras to make more money. The British realised their
folly and scrapped the program. Without the bounty rewards, the locals who were
breeding the cobras released them back into the city, leading to a higher
population than before the snake bounty was introduced. This has since been
known as the cobra effect. This week, did we unleash a cobra effect
with the case of Boniface Murage? Murage was arrested while smuggling his baby
from Kenyatta National Hospital over a Sh56,000 bill that had been incurred
after admission of his wife and child. He was later freed on a three-month
suspended sentence. Opinions were divided on whether Murage
is a villain or victim. On one hand, those who think he is a victim, exonerated
him from his act and instead blamed his circumstances on the government; for not
providing an enabling environment where every citizen has, or can get
employment, and for not offering free health care to every patient in all
public hospitals. And in response, many well-wishers, including the Governor of
Nairobi, came to his rescue in settling his bill, hiring a lawyer to represent
him and offering him employment. Many have branded him a hero, a loving dad, a
true champion. On the other hand, those who think he is a villain, were of the
view that he committed a crime for which he should answer to, regardless of his
circumstances. They argued that as a society, we must uphold the place of
personal responsibility and readiness to accept the consequences of law
breaking. I submit that this case is a cobra effect. On the one hand, we have
the law and on the other we have morals. These are two compasses that
dominantly steer us towards good and socially acceptable behaviour. The law
achieves this principally through the threat of penalties should we break the
law; while morals achieve this through gratifying emotions of virtuousness. In
deciding which action to take, we are governed by two sovereign masters –
pleasure and pain. And the premium we put in our actions is dictated by whether
the result will promote pleasure or decrease our pain. This is built on
hedonistic foundation where the most moral acts were those which maximised
pleasure and minimised pain. In other words, this is known as utilitarianism. Our support of
Murage’s action or lack of it ground-truths the principle of utility. We
commend an action if it produces the greatest good for the greatest number.
Conversely, we condemn it if achieves the opposite. Utilitarianism focuses on
the results rather than the rules. In Murage’s case, my counsel is that he should not be celebrated. He
should not be absolved for his action because the end does not justify the
means; and to do so is to trigger the cobra’s effect. The cobra’s effect is a
perverse incentive which when attempted as a solution to a problem, actually
makes the problem worse. It is an open secret that there are many Murages in
this country; and the probability that they will attempt a Murage stunt in the
hope that they may attract as many incentives as Murage has, is extremely
high. We are advocating for access and availability of free health services
for all in public facilities; but have not gone further to interrogate where
the requisite resources will come from, because this might mean paying higher
taxes. Arguments have also been furthered that if we used our taxes prudently,
that we would be able to provide free health services for all. This is true but
only up to a point, as explained through the Laffer Curve. The Laffer Curve
illustrates that the more an activity is taxed, the less of it is generated.
The converse also holds true. This means that lower taxes boost economic growth
and underpins what is called the supply-side economics. Let us conceptualise the Laffer Curve on a graph and plot the revenue
along the x-axis, the tax rate along the y-axis, and the point at which they
intersect is zero. If the tax rate is zero per cent, no tax revenue is
generated because nobody is paying taxes. Likewise, if the tax rate is 100 per
cent, the tax revenue is still zero because nobody is willing to work and have
all their income taxed by the government, leaving them with nothing. When taxes
increase from zero, it boosts government revenue immediately. And the more the
taxes go higher along the y-axis, the more the revenue that is collected along
the x-axis. However, as the tax increase continues, the payoff in additional
revenue begins diminishing as the tax base reduces causing the curve to
boomerang backwards to zero. Back to Murage’s case, are the actions of his well-wishers an act of
the greatest good for the greatest number? Are these well-wishers prepared and
able to extend the same kind gestures to other Murages that will emerge? If any
worthwhile end can justify the means to attain it, will this not be eroding the
true ethical foundations against which rules are set and adhered to? I sympathise with Murage’s situation. But my unsolicited advice to him
and other Murages is that a particular act cannot be judged as good, simply
because it may lead to a good consequence. The means must be judged by some
objective and consistent standard of morality. And to the rest of us, we ought to tread cautiously around post-truth.
Post-truth is when objective facts become less and less influential in shaping
public opinion that appeals to emotion and personal beliefs, while subjective
opinions become more and more important to the point that fact and fiction
becomes harder to separate.  The rarest of all human§
qualities is consistency – Jeremy Bentham 