Farmers at the Coast will receive 400,000 cashew nuts and 100,000 coconut seedlings ahead of the long rain season. This is part of a nationwide initiative planned by the Ministry of Agriculture. The ministry will provide fruit tree seedlings to farmers across the country to improve food security and forest cover. Last year, President Uhuru Kenyatta launched an initiative to increase countrywide forest cover to 10 per cent. Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri on Friday said the ministry has established nurseries in Pekerra, Bura, Mwea and Ahero irrigation schemes. They target five million fruits seedlings of different species. Kiunjuri spoke at the Bura Irrigation Scheme in Garissa county. He said 200,000 cashew nuts and 50,000 coconut seedlings have been planted and are at the grafting stage. “We’ll be giving farmers the seedlings in April and we will be seeking guidance on the right varieties to plant from experts in Tanzania who have been growing the crops,” the CS said. Data from the Agriculture and Food Authority show that Kenya is among the countries leading in production of cashew nut. It comes after India, Brazil, Vietnam, Nigeria, Ivory Coast, Guinea Bissau, Tanzania, Mozambique and Malawi. cotton production Kiunjuri said rice farmers will also benefit. He said 500 acres are under rice irrigation. The CS expressed concern that rice farmers have not been earning better incomes because the varieties planted produce less yields. “I’ve directed the Kenya Agriculture and Livestock Research Organisation to provide a high-yield variety to ensure farmers get maximum profits. We will also be increasing the acreage under rice farming to 10,000 acres in the next two years.” Engineer Felix Shiundu from the National Irrigation Board said that in 2017-18, farmers at the Bura Irrigation Scheme earned Sh15 million from seed production. Read: Embu farmer finds riches in growing tree tomato fruits “Farmers earn averagely Sh100 million annually from horticulture crops such watermelon, tomatoes and onions,” he said. Shiundu said market access has been a problem. Farmers heavily rely on seed maize production due to lack of reliable market for other crops, he said. “Crop destruction by wildlife is also a challenge, which leads to farmers incurring huge losses. With no compensation from the Kenya Wildlife Service, farmers are unable to service their loans, hence high rate of loan defaulting and eventual listing with the CRB,” Shiundu said. He called for a partnership with the Kenya Seed and the National Cereals and Produce Board to provide market for seeds such as commercial maize, rice and green grams. “The government should also review cotton production with a view to improving returns to encourage farmers to resume production.” Also Read: Thorny melon the answer to Africa’s nutritional problems Click here for the latest political news