Governor Alfred Mutua yesterday told Machakos government employees who support his political opponents to recognise him as the county chief or quit. “We won’t have mercy on those politicking at work. This is Mutua’s administration. If you support others you will go,” he said. Mutua said the time for politicking was long gone. He spoke when he met all Machakos government employees at Kenyatta Stadium. The meeting, Mutua said, was meant to help county leaders get to know the employees. “We will be able to identify workers because some are not known to the county officials,” he said. The more than 7,000 workers were from different departments across the eight subcounties. They included CECs and chief officers. “We don’t want traitors among us. We want people who are focused and know our vision,” Mutua said. The governor told the employees to change their negative attitude.Mutua said most complain all the time. “I would rather remain with only a few employees instead of having more than 7,000 with the wrong attitude,” he said. Order is key Mutua said some workers think Machakos is a backward county. The county chief said he wants the Machakos public service to move services from third to first class “the chap chap way”. Mutua said most employees do not understand his leadership ideology. He said he has reconciled with MCAs, who have agreed to work with his administration. “I told the MCAs to join the winning team. We will unite to work for Machakos residents to facilitate development,” Mutua said. He said residents want development, not politics. “From now on, we have to do things the right way in Machakos. Your job is important, but you have to do it well,” he told the employees. “I’m a governor who likes order. The difference between first and third world is order and disorder.” Mutua also warned the staff against corruption, saying he will not tolerate any individual tainting the county’s image. “We want an ethical county. People should receive services quickly and without paying any money,” the governor said. weed out the corrupt Last September, Mutua warned that he will not allow any employee in his government, regardless of rank, to engage in corruption. “I will have no mercy and will weed out all the bad elements so that wananchi get the proper services they deserve,” he said . Mutua had said he was putting in place, with the assistance of relevant agencies, systems that prevent corruption. The governor said the public continues to struggle under the yoke of poverty and hardship due to slow economic growth perpetuated mostly by corruption and blatant theft of government resources. “Unless tough action is taken, our youth will continue to suffer with no jobs and wananchi will never enjoy the fruits of the independence we gained back in 1963,” Mutua said.