Opponents have a morbid fear of seeing Gor Mahia occupy top spot in the Kenyan Premier League and it is understandable why. Very rarely, in the last decade, have the record champions relinquished that position once they make it their own. That nightmare scenario for the title hopefuls may become a reality this afternoon should, as expected, Gor Mahia beat Western Stima at Moi Stadium, Kasarani. After a slow start to the campaign that saw Hassan Oktay’s charges lose two matches in their opening four, normal service seems to have resumed in a run of four consecutive wins. They will, however, come up against a formidable side in Stima, who are equally enjoying a decent run of five matches without defeat though stalemates have undermined their rise up the table. From 12 matches, Paul Ogai’s men have 20 points and could rise two places up to fifth should they eke out a historic victory over K’Ogalo. “It’s a good challenge for us to come against Gor, who are the team to beat yet again. We are also in good form and we are confident we can get a positive result if we stick to the coach’s game plan,” remarked Stima danger man, Kennedy Agogo. Nine years later, Agogo is still remembered for his equalising goal that denied Gor a first league crown in 17 years on the last day of the 2012 campaign. The electricity men come into the fixture buoyed by their win over basement club Mount Kenya United. Club captain, Fred Nyarombo, was on the score sheet in that win alongside Agogo and the duo will relish pitting their wits against Gor’s impregnable defence marshalled by skipper Haron Shakava and Joash Onyango. Oktay may be tempted to make changes up-front with one eye on the Confederation Cup clash with Algerian side Hussein Dey on Sunday. Nicholas Kipkirui has continued to endear himself to the Gor fans and either he or fit-again Dennis Oliech will partner first choice striker Jacques Tuyisenge. Oktay would have preferred to rest his leading man but Francis Mustapha and more recently Eric Ssekisambu, have failed to impress when handed the goal-scoring responsibilities. Ernest Wendo will get another opportunity to improve his match fitness after an extended period on the sidelines. Hardworking Boniface Omondi will give him company in the middle of the park with either the support coming from indispensable Francis Kahata or Bernard Ondiek, who will be facing his former side.