The Independent Policing Oversight Authority has condemned the arrest of Njeri wa Muthoni who had captured traffic police officers harassing another female passenger in a matatu. In a viral video on Tuesday, Muthoni is seen filming the officers pulling a lady from the front seat of the vehicle. Speaking to the Star on the phone, IPOA head of communication Dennis Okech said they have raised the matter with Kasarani police station. "We have talked with police in Kasarani and they are processing Njeri's release," Okech said. In the clip, five officers are seen trying to eject the lady as Muthoni filmed the ordeal along Thika Road in Nairobi. When the officers learnt she was recording, they threatened her but she continued. The officers wanted to arrest the vehicle and demanded to seat in the front seat by force. Njeri was later arrested by the same officers and taken to Kasarani police station. "We know she will be released. But we want her to report the matter to IPOA for further investigation," Okech said. Okech said the officers will be investigated and punished if found guilty. Kenyans on Twitter condemned the arrest. "Njeri Wa Muthoni, the lady who recorded the police assaulting another lady, has been arrested and is being held at Kasarani police station," @ItsBravin said. @felixnderie said, "It is high time we condemned impunity and rogue police officers within the country." "The arrest of Njeri wa Muthoni by the traffic cops is pure barbaric. That's violation of human rights. Her recording the traffic officers mishandling the lady was a good thing she did. Now the Cops have been exposed," @KijanaWaFacts said. @DanWaweru said, "This just ain't right. Assaulting a citizen just cause of the uniform???? Then arresting someone for capturing that. I mean c'mo." "The police keep telling us to: 1. Stay Vigilant 2. Report anything fishy. Njeri was vigilant and took a video to record/report something she thought was fishy. We can't win the war on crime when citizens are arrested for being vigilant," @bkairu said. @JoyceNjenga11said, "Damn those police officers, they have no shame at all." "Clearly, it's like all the police officers are cut from the same cloth, none of them thought this was wrong, this is someone's mother, sister, daughter etc being assaulted. I agree common sense is not common anymore," @NjeriMuranja said, @ngukumbute said, "Release mrembo... it's digital community policing in play." Click here for the latest political news 