The Sh5.3 billion Lower Nzoia Irrigation project is at the centre of a looming storm involving state agencies. Construction of the national government-funded project has stalled in some areas as landowners have yet to be compensated. State agencies have been accused of poor coordination. Once the project is completed, about 9,884 acres in Siaya and Busia counties will be put under irrigation. It will also control flooding and protect lives. The project was launched on October 1, 2013, and its commissioning expected in December 2022. The delays could, however, lead to alteration of the schedules. Landowners are to be paid Sh1.2 billion. The county government claimed that some had been paid. The project design is already completed, including an integrated flood management structure. The contract was awarded to Sinohydro Corporation Limited. The County Development Implementation and Coordination committee said no compensation for land has been made. The committee was formed two weeks ago to coordinate and implement national government programmes and projects. It is chaired by county commissioner Moses ole Tialal, who said works on dykes have not started after landowners demanded pay-outs. They will not let go of their parcels before they get their cash, Tialal said. The team toured the project last week. It accused the National Land Commission, the National Treasury and the Water and Irrigation state department of engaging in “ping pong”. The committee was formed after a presidential order. It called for an end to blame games between government departments and appealed to the NLC to hasten compensation. The project comprises two components. The first is a Sh3.9 billion water intake point and the second the construction of Sh1.4 billion dykes. On Thursday last week, the committee was informed that works on the water intake was 25 per cent complete and that the construction of an emergency weir was 60 per cent done. The centralisation of funding and supervision were blamed for the stalled parts. Members met in IEBC Hall, Siaya town. They want the project fast-tracked and managed by officers on the ground to save government funds. “Projects managed from Nairobi end up being expensive for the taxpayers,” they said in a report. The county committee monitor, verify and evaluate the progress of national government programmes and projects. They also identify and suggest solutions for problems that hamper implementation. The CDICC is also tasked to foster public support for the programmes and projects through coordination of public participation and awareness drives. On Monday, Agriculture executive Charles Ogada urged those who will be displaced by the project to seek alternative land after getting compensation so they don’t become landless. He said the county government has established 14 blocks along River Nzoia for farmers. The beneficiaries will learn modern farming technologies. Ogada urged farmers to form and register groups to benefit from the project. The county will provide loans to those keen on taking advantage of the irrigation scheme to change their lives for the better. “We’re establishing demonstration plots for farmers to learn different technologies so they copy and use them in crop production,” he said. The government targets smallholder farmers from the two counties to benefit from the scheme. Ogada said it will enhance institutional framework and strengthen capacity for water security and climate resilience for residents. The contract aims at providing an integrated real-time hydro metrological monitoring system to help in flood control through early warning systems. Ogada said poor coordination between the national government and the county government needs to be resolved to ensure successful implementation. The executive called for county government participation at different stages.