City nurses say they have suffered enough and want the county government to provide a cure for the ailing health sector. On Tuesday, they converged at City Hall and petitioned the Mike Sonko administration, which promised to act. The nurses said they undergo numerous problems, which must be fixed before things get out of hand. Acting Health executive Charles Kerich promised the formation of a 20-member committee to tackle the concerns. Kenya National Union of Nurses branch secretary Ediah Muruli led the delegation. She said they are overworked and called for adequate staffing to promote efficiency in all health facilities. The county has only 1,550 nurses. The nurse-patient ratio is wanting, they say. “In Pumwani, the ratio of nurses to pregnant women is 1:3, meaning one nurse is responsible for delivery of babies from three mothers. This can happen at one go,” a nurse said. Pumwani is the largest maternity hospital in East and Central Africa. On average, 80 deliveries are recorded daily, translating into 2,400 children per month and 29,200 annually. It is difficult for a nurse to give priority to one woman given that delivery is a matter of life and death. They are caught in a dilemma, but more postings would be the answer. The county nurses are also concerned with lack of promotion and re-designation. They accused the employer of inaction, saying the demands are long overdue. Are they lazy and don’t deserve promotion and other benefits? Not in the least — the county is just unwilling to acknowledge their efforts, they say. Muruli said nurses in Nairobi have not been promoted for the past 19 years. “It’s not fair that it’s only Nairobi that, even after devolution, has not promoted nurses. Being the capital city, it should serve as an example.” Their allowances too have not been increased over the years. They get Sh10,000 annually for uniform and Sh20,000 as nurses’ allowances. The caregivers say the economy has improved over the years, but their allowances remain stagnant. And inflation has taken a heavy toll on their earnings — uniforms now cost more. They also want their salaries harmonised so there is no discrimination as that can easily sow discord at workplaces. Same work, same rank, should attract same pay. “There are nurses employed by the former Nairobi City Council, the Ministry of Health and the current Nairobi county government,” Muruli explained. “However, there are cases where, in all the three categories, all of them have the same job description and qualifications but are paid different salaries. “This brings a lot of misunderstanding among us. All nurses should earn the same if they are at the same level and have same job descriptions.” The nurses further complained that Nairobi lacks a director of nursing services. “The purpose of this director was to present our cases directly to the county government. But because we don’t have one at the moment, there is no direct rapport between us and the county,” Muruli said. The nurses want the county to take their grievances seriously. They signed a return-to-work formula after talks with Governor Sonko. The county chief said the allowances would be paid in the next 48 hours. His administration would first get approval from the Controller of Budget. “We shall also implement the promotion of nurses as promised. We can’t fight over these issues as our patients suffer,” he said.