Two Kilifi police officers yesterday denied murdering primary school pupil Katana Kazungu last year. His parents broke down in tears when the charge was being read. He was their firstborn. Officers Simeon Ayodo and Amos Kipsang’ denied the charge before Malindi high court judge Weldon Korir. A standard psychiatric test showed the two were mentally fit to stand trial. Kazungu, 17, was shot dead in Tsangatsini, Kaloleni, on June 26 last year. His life was cut short when Ayodo and Kipsang’ allegedly opened fire at a group of youths who were pushing a truck that was stuck in the mud. A postmortem report showed the Standard 7 pupil at Ndatani Primary School was shot at close range. The bullet pieced his back, passed through one side of the heart and broke a rib, before it exited through the stomach. Read: Cops to face murder charges in Kilifi county on Valentine’s Day Korir ordered the police officers to be detained at Malindi police station until March 11. A report from the Probation Service on bond and bail terms will be presented before the court that day. The prosecution did not object the release of the suspects on bond. Defense lawyer Gerald Magolo termed them “very junior” officers, when he applied for reasonable and lenient bonds. “The accused are police constables,” he said. Director of Public Prosecutions officer Babra Sombo said the bond should have a surety. The court allowed Muslims for Human Rights (Muhuri) to hold brief for the family of Kazungu. Shot at group of youths Muhuri’s and InformAction findings said the truck that Kazungu and others were pushing was transporting ballast. Their records show six youths were pushing the truck. Five youths had been hired while Kazungu, who was coming from a funeral, offered to help, anticipating a stipend. Muhuri previously reported at least five officers ambushed and started shooting at the group. Police claimed the truck was stolen. No one was arrested and booked after the shooting. The other five youths did not immediately know Kazungu had been killed. Muhuri said the youths were ordered to face an opposite direction during the 6pm shooting. They incident. They were let go at dawn. The murder was reported to the Independent Policing Oversight Authority. Statements from the witnesses were recorded. Muhuri provided details that helped Ipoa in its seven-month investigation. Police had denied culpability. They attempted to subvert justice by ordering the body be buried without a postmortem. Muhuri insisted a postmortem be done. Read: Two cops to be charged with murder of Kilifi boy Click here for
the latest political news