Governor Joseph Lenku reshuffled his cabinet on Thursday night during which he dropped close allies from key positions. Major campaigners, who had been rewarded with plum jobs were moved to dockets with lesser authority. Treasury executive Michael Semera was moved to the water docket. Semera, a professional banker, stood with the governor during the 2017 general election. He was replaced by youthful Public Service executive Alais Kisota. Kisota is Lenku’s blue-eyed-boy and comes from his political backyard in Loitokitok. Francis Sakuda was moved from the county secretary docket to replace Kisota in the Public Service position. Sakuda is from Kajiado West and vigorously campaigned for Lenku among the Keek-Onyokie community. The governor picked Jeremiah Njaro to become the Education executive. The docket was previously held by Samuel Seki. Seki becomes the acting county secretary. Seki comes from Dalalekutuk community in Kajiado Central. He was picked by Lenku from the Narok county government where he served as county secretary for Governor Samuel Tunai. Seki initially contested the Kajiado governorship seat before he was prevailed not todo so by Lenku who  promised him a job. There was said to be an agreement that Lenku would pick Seki as his running mate before he opted for Martin Moshisho. Both Moshisho and Seki are from Dalalekutuk subtribe. Lenku preferred Moshisho because of his age. The deputy governor is youthful and was to attract young voters. Moses Narok was dropped as Agriculture executive and named Lenku’s personal political adviser. Florence Waiganjo was moved from Water to Trade and Tourism. Narok’s network was bigger than that of Lenku during the elections. Residents believe he bankrolled the governors’ campaign. Insiders on Friday said Narok will earn a salary equivalent to that of an executive. Jackline Koim replaces Narok. Sources said Sakuda will be assigned more responsibilities in the Public Service department. The docket has more budgetary allocation than the office of a county secretary. Esther Somoire (Health), Hamilton Parseina (Lands), Alvin Kimani (Sports) and Alex Kilowua (Roads) retained their dockets. Chief officers reshuffled include Njoroge Mwaura, who replaced Benson Leyian from the governor’s delivery unit. Moses Murunya was moved from Lands to Agriculture with Leakey Rintei taking over at the Tourism docket. Tima Sankaire was moved to Lands and Samson Parashina to Education. Lenku nominated Richard Parseina as chief officer for Cooperative Development. Parseina served in former Governor David Nkedianye regime as Lands executive.