President Uhuru Kenyatta is facing a nightmare as he looks for money to complete Sh293 billion projects stalled across the country. Fresh details emerged yesterday as Uhuru struggles to deliver his legacy projects under the Big Four agenda in three years and six months before leaving State House in 2022. The Big Four — healthcare, food security, manufacturing, and housing — are to be his legacy, as well as crushing corruption. A report by Treasury Principal Secretary Kamau Thugge tabled in Parliament yesterday revealed that a chunk of the stalled projects, valued at Sh365 billion, were to be executed by the Transport and Infrastructure ministry. The ministry headed by James Macharia failed to finalise 10 key projects valued at Sh66 billion, which had been approved in June 2018. They include civil work on the Nanyuki airstrip, rehabilitation of Wajir Airport, Tseikuru airstrip; Voi Ikanga airstrip, Wagadud airstrip and Wilson Airport. The Transport and Infrastructure ministry has put on hold construction of the Greenfield Terminal after spending Sh4.3 billion to execute five per cent of the work. Read: Uhuru freezes new projects until ongoing ones are completed See: [VIDEO] Shame of stalled public projects that have gobbled billions of shillings Work on a 'reallocation unit' at Kibera, fencing of Embakasi land, and a transport data centre are among other stalled projects. Stalled stadiums, some of which figured prominently in the Jubilee 2013 and 2017 manifestos, were also cited as stalled projects. During the 2017 campaigns, Deputy President William Ruto had promised that most stadiums would be completed in six months. Three were to be put up in Mombasa, Eldoret and Nairobi as well as in seven regional headquarters for Sh37 billion. The projects did not pick up for lack of funding,despite completion of feasibility studies. The Sports ministry has also failed to complete construction of the Kenya Academy of Sports (Sh859 million) as well as the establish the National Sports Lottery (Sh882 million). “The Sh244 million allocated under the establishment of the lottery has been spent to meet the initial set-up costs. The current allocation of Sh69 million is not enough to operationalise the lottery and generate revenue,” the report states. Also on the spot is the Ewaso Ngiro North River Basin Development Authority which needs more than Sh51 billion to complete. It is projected to be finished by 2022. A chunk of funds was allocated to construction and operationalisation of the Dual River Transboundary Management headquarters. The State Department of Interior headed by Fred Matiang'i has also been cited after it deferred construction of a Crime Data Repository Unit. It was allocated Sh27 billion but amount was suspended pending comments from the Auditor General and Department of Justice. It has also emerged that the State Department of Trade is yet to actualise Sh10.1 billion projects, while the Correctional Services Department has Sh543 million stalled projects.   Read: MPs oppose Uhuru ban on new projects University projects too have stalled at Kirinyaga, South Eastern Kenya, Kisii, Laikipia, Pwani, Multimedia, Muranga, Egerton, Meru, Machakos, Nairobi, TUM, and Kabianga. The projects have consumed Sh2.7 billion of the Sh3.4 billion allocated. The State Department of Crop Development has Sh37 billion worth of outstanding projects, most delays caused by lack of funding. In the Agriculture ministry, the department of Irrigation is yet to complete Sh4.1 billion projects, excluding Sh1 billion to be executed by the National Irrigation Board. The National Treasury has also highlighted pending projects worth Sh2.5 billion at the Lands ministry. The money is to be spent on renovation of land registries, surveys and inspection of national and international boundaries, and for works on hostels and dining halls at the Kenya Institute of Surveying and Mapping. The report reveals that at least Sh5.4 billion projects have also stalled at the Water and Irrigation ministry. State Department of Public Works has also halted Sh4.8 billion works, citing budget constraints. These include construction of the Migori District headquarters, Kabarnet Medical Training Centre, Kibish police station, Nakuru Industrial Training Institute and Mathare Nyayo hospital. Also highlighted are stalled works on Mitihani House Phase V, which lacks Sh334 million, five years after the set completion date. The Deputy President's residence in Karen has also been flagged over Sh6 million in court awards that remain unpaid. Construction of district headquarters has stalled in Mumoni, Nyandarua West, Githunguri, Laikipia Central, Kenyenya, Kasarani, Kieni West, Kabete, Gatundu, Bungoma North, Nyakach, Langata, Kamukunji, Fafi, Kilungu, Kyuso, Kipipiri, Nyeri South, Nandi South, Njoro, Kisumu Town West, Nyatike, Wajir South, Kirinyaga West, Marakwet West, Mandera North and Bunyala. The projects that require Sh603 million have not picked up owing to low budget ceilings. In the Housing Department, the National Treasury has flagged Sh2.9 billion projects key to the Big Four agenda. These include construction of the Kenya Building Research Centre that was not funded in 2015-16 and 2016-17. Work on the centre is halfway complete. Also affected is the rehabilitation of select roads in Gikomba, the road linking Githurai 44 and Githurai 45 and construction of access to Thika Greens. In the Gikomba case, Thugge said the contractor has been unable to access the site due to illegal occupation by traders. A National Housing Corporation project in Kisumu’s Kanyakwar location also stalled after the contractor suspended work,citing disagreement with NHC. At least 25 markets that were to be put up under the Economic Stimulus Project — also Uhuru’s brainchild — have stalled. The Treasury has flagged Sh3.1 billion stalled projects at the State Department of Energy. The Ministry of agriculture and Livestock has not completed others valued at Sh4.5 billion. The department of social protection is yet to complete Sh3.7 billion projects. During his tenure, former Chief Justice Willy Mutunga initiated the expansion of numerous courts countrywide. However, the Treasury report showed that 37 courthouses have stalled and need about Sh2 billion to be completed. A number of the courts are more than 5 per cent complete, except for Eldama Ravine, Habasweini, Kandara, Marsabit, Amagoro, Kabarnet, Homa Bay. More: What Uhuru’s freeze on new projects means Click here for the latest political news