A police officer was yesterday accused of painting a Hollywood scenario for court when he said a suspect hit a university student and drove with her body on the roof of the car for at least two kilometres. Lawyer Danstan Omari challenged the accounts of investigating officer A Madoyi in a case in which a prison sergeant is charged with killing a student by dangerous driving. According to the investigating officer, the suspect immediately after the accident reported the matter to Langata police station saying he had hit an animal. The investigating officer said in court that what the suspect did amounted to giving false information to police. He never stopped at the scene of the accident as he just kept speeding. The students right leg was cut off immediately with the rest of the body hanging on the roof of the car. But lawyer Omari in his cross examination said the suspect who was driving at a speed of 120km per hour could possibly have imagined he hit an animal. “I put it to you that there is a possibility he could not have known what he had hit. He might have honestly hit an animal,” the lawyer said. However the investigating officer refused to buy that line of argument saying the man had every intent to lie to police. “The animals from the nearby Nairobi National Park are confined and rarely do we have livestock on Mombasa road that early,” the investigating officer said. He was testifying in a case where Sergeant Dismas Motogwa Gitenge, who has since been interdicted, was charged with three counts before a magistrate and was released on cash bail of Sh10,000. Gitenge allegedly hit and killed Ms Maureen Wambui Gachagua, a Kenyatta University student on July 15, last year. He allegedly committed the offence on Mombasa Road at around 5am. Other than causing death by dangerous driving, the former prison officer was charged with failing to stop after an accident and giving false information to a police officer. The case is coming up on March 14. Click here for the latest political news  