Claire (not her real name) has been having sleepless nights since she survived the DusitD2 terror attack on January 15. She was in the complex when six armed terrorists stormed the premises and indiscriminately shot people, leaving 21 dead. Claire is a group account manager at a public relations firm at the office complex. She told the Star in an interview that she is still scared of guns, even in the hands of uniformed police officers. The accountant also fears being stuck in traffic, as that brings back memories of the time she felt helpless and couldn’t escape from her hideout for a while. “In traffic, I get the feeling that terrorists might attack and I won’t have a place to run,” Claire said. She described the night of the attack as the longest of her life, “I could not sleep after I got home. When the night went dead silent, the gunshots kept sounding in my head.” On the day of the attack, she was walking out of her office near the entrance to the Dusit complex. Then the first grendade went off. “I heard a loud blast followed by people running into the office saying there were grenades in the block. I panicked.” Claire and her colleagues took the stairs out of the office. Security officers had arrived by then. “They made everyone come out using one way and they become sitting ducks as the terrorists shot at them,” she says. It was the first time she heard gunshots up close. “They were very loud. I kept hearing them even after I had gone to bed.” “I kept thinking how lucky I was though I ran in the direction that the attackers were firing and I was not injured. How I managed to escape remains a mystery,” Claire said. PSYCHOLOGICAL INJURY Shaken, she went to her cousin’s place in Lavington after fleeing. A day later, she left for her own place where the sound of gunshots continued to reverberate in her head. The attack helped Claire realise who her true friends were. Some visited her at home for emotional support. “My friends kept coming to my place, some even slept over. This really helped me as I did not feel alone.” She urged everyone who has a relative or a friend involved in such an incident or any other life-threatening event to support them. “I had no physical injuries but the whole incident left me psychologically messed up,” Claire said. The attack taught her to stay away from her phone, in contrast with the past when she couldn’t spend a minute away from the device. Her phone remained on her desk for a week as the area was declared a no-go zone. “The situation helped me change my perspective and approach to life,” Claire said. SUPPORTIVE MANAGEMENT She added, “Our office management has been very supportive and so haveour clients. One client gave us temporary space to use as an office in. Another one also offered counselling services.” Claire said the management did not rush any employee to get back to work and that helped. “The healing process is neither easy nor is it the same for everyone,” she said. The survivor added, “I have never been so excited to see my friends as I was on the day we were having the prayer and thanksgiving. It could have been different. On that day, I hugged people tighter than ever before...it was such an amazing feeling.” She said seeing her colleagues again, all in one piece, reaffirmed how lucky they all were. By contrast, Claire said she felt terrible after some people called her for business after she resumed work — as though nothing happened. “I was thinking just how insensitive some people can be. Some never bothered to at least say sorry for what had happened or ask how I was doing.” The al Shaabab terror group claimed responsibility for the attack which claimed 21 lives and injured scores.