It will be a big score for students who did not qualify to join university this year, after the government move to sponsor learners in technical institutions. The move will see students with grades as low as D and E join tertiary institutions, government partly paying their fees and just like their university counterparts they will access loans to cater for the remaining fees. Ministry of education estimates this to cost about Sh20 billion seeks to put an end to discrimination in transition to higher education. This means, those headed to TVET institutions will access higher education at absolutely free cost. The school fees in TVET institutions currently stands at Sh56,420. This is how it will work, the government will provide Sh30,000 capitation for each TVET trainee. The learners in technical and vocational institutions will receive as much as Sh40,000 loans annually from HELB enough to pay all your fees and and have some extra coins to cater for their upkeep. Higher education in Kenya has traditionally, been like a sieve only favoring good performers to move to university and leaving the future of million of children in a limbo. This has led to lack of skills among many youths consequently leading to high unemployment levels in the country. Education CS Amina Mohamed yesterday urged youths to take up the positions in TVET institutions so as to get skills. She said the decision of the Government to recognise skills achieved outside formal education and training in technical and training institutions had opened many avenues for anybody who fails to be admitted to university to continue learning to the highest qualification. “We are reforming the sector to make it relevant as it is crucial for the Big Four agenda,” said the CS. With about 130 functional technical and vocational training institutions, education ministry data reveals that the institutions have an enrollment capacity of 300,000 students. If only last year's KCSE candidates benefited it means transition rate to tertiary education will stand at 60 percent an all time highest and double those who proceeded to tertiary institutions. 651,189 students who received KCSE exams qualified for placement in tertiary institutions this year. Out of that number, 121,288 scored between C plain and C– and are eligible for diploma courses in TVET institutions. Some 244,436, scored D and D+ and are eligible for craft certificate courses. This means, over 560,445 candidates who sat last year's exam will have to scramble for limited places in colleges and TVET institutions. The limited capacity in colleges and institutions threatens the ministry ambition to realise the huge transition to tertiary institutions. Technical and Vocational Training (TVET) institutes have been urged to take advantage of the Big Four Agenda to produce competent graduates who will drive realisation of the Government’s agenda. Principal Secretary, State Department of Vocational and Technical Training, Dr Kevit Desai, said no country had developed without skills acquired in such institutions. Click here for the latest political news