Kenyan duo of Justus Madoya and Eric Ooko were among those who filled the last three slots for the forthcoming Magical Kenya Open following a dramatic end to the Safari Tour Golf Series.  Absa Group Limited, which operates in Kenya as Barclays, have invested Sh220 million in this year's Kenya Open set for March 14-17  The third slot at stake in the closing event at Karen Country Club went to Ugandan Philip Kasozi who finished fourth on 7 over Par 291 in yesterday’s play. Kasozi, however, got the slot after he finished first outside the nine golfers who qualified at Windsor. Ooko of Royal and Golf Park’s Okello finished joint 10th yesterday on 12 over par 296 and proceeded to a three-hole play-off on the par four 7th, 8th and 9th, where the former carried the day in dramatic fashion. In the three hole play off, Ooko sank in two birdies on the 7th and 9th and parred hole 8. Okello on the other hand, parred holes 7 and 8 and bogeyed hole 8 to lose out to the Royal golfer. Madoya clinched his slot after finishing fifth on 9 over soar 293. Okello was all smiles. “What a way to end the Safari Tour. It was a tension packed three holes and the two birdies made the difference. I will practice really hard for the event and I hope to make the cut,” he said. Dismas Indiza won the last Safari Tour event, pipping Greg Snow on the last day. Snow has led in the last three rounds but his 7 over round yesterday saw him settle for second in the last event. Indiza played 3 over par 74 for a gross total of 3 over par 287. Snow came second in the last event with a disappointing round of 7 over and a gross total of 4 over par 288. Snow lost it in the back nine where bogies let hom down in the day’s play. Simon Ngige finished third on 4 over par 290. The best amateur was Daniel Nduva of Nyali Golf and Country Club. He tied for 8th with Sigona resident professional CJ Wangai with a gross total of 11 over par 295. Indiza said: “It’s great to finally win at Karen, where I have over the years played well. The Karen course has always been kind to me and I’m glad the Safari win has come in the long run.” Ooko and Madoya join the nine qualifiers from the Windsor event including—Dismas Indiza (Mumias), Greg Snow (Muthaiga), Nelson Simwa (Vet Lab), David Opati (Windsor) and Rizwan Charania (Windsor). Others are—CJ Wangai (Sigona), David Wakhu (Golf Park), Tony Omuli (Golf Park) and Simon Ngige (Thika SC).