The acquisition of KenolKobil by Rubis Plc is among 11 mergers and consolidations cleared by the Competition Authority of Kenya CAK yesterday authorised the deals after establishing they would not lead to uncompetitive market practices or raise public interest concerns. In October, the French fuel storage and distribution company Rubis SCA which already owns 25 per cent stake in the listed oil marketer announced a take-over offer of Sh23 per share for 75.01 per cent of KenolKobil’s issued ordinary shares. The deal has however been in the limelight following reports of purported insider trading. This, after the Capital Markets Authority flagged suspicious trading in KenolKobil shares moments after Rubis announced its takeover plans. Dubai-based private equity firm Abraaj Group is also among firms that have received the regulator’s approval to sell its Kenyan interests including 100 per cent stake in coffee chain Java House, 18 clinics and 10 hospitals, 10 per cent stake in Brookside Dairy and 21 per cent stake in IT provider Seven Sea Technology. Last February, the Private Equity firm was on the spot over claims of the irregular use of funds in its healthcare business in Kenya and two other countries, according to media reports in the Wall Street Journal and New York Times. “The proposed transaction is an acquisition of control by Actis of the management rights over Abraaj Investment Limited’s funds, effectively giving Actis complete control rights over their portfolio of companies which are currently being controlled by the target funds,” CAK said. Private Equity firm Emerging Capital Partners has also received CAK’s thumbs-up to acquire 100 per cent of Kenyan restaurant chain Artcaffe Coffee & Bakery Limited’s ordinary shares. Others are acquisition of 100 per cent of the business and assets of Desbro (Kenya) Limited by Brenntang (Holding), acquisition of the stationery and shavers manufacturing business of Haco Industries Kenya Limited by Bic East Africa Limited as well as acquisition of 73.6 per cent stake of Sintel Security Print Solutions Limited by Ramco Plexus Limited. In the education sector, GEMS Global Schools Limited is planning to acquire Hillcrest Investment Holdings while South Africa’s Summit Real Estate Proprietary Limited acquires Nova Academies Tatu City Property Limited. AfricInvest Azure plans buy 24.53 per cent stake in Prime Bank, Tunza Health Investment is seeking 20.4 per cent stake in Pyramid Healthcare Limited and Sokoni Retail Kenya Limited plans to buyout Tumaini Self Service Limited. With a combined turnover of the transacting parties above Sh1 billion for 2017, CAK found that the deals meet the threshold for full merger analysis as provided in the Merger Threshold Guidelines. Most deals involve Private Equity funds and global firms looking to increase their footprint by penetrating the Kenyan market. The increased number of mergers and acquisitions shows higher investor appetite backed by the ease of doing business in the country.