The national national Under-19 Cricket team technical bench has been beefed up ahead of the this year’s ICC Africa World Cup Qualifier set for next month in Namibia. The Interim Committee, appointed to run the game for three month, has added two more coaches to the previous four, bringing the number to six. Former national coach Thomas Odoyo and David Asiji are the latest on the list as CK Interim Committee seek to ensure the Under-19 team record good results in Namibia. Former national team wicket keeper David Obuya and team-mate Francis Otieno were appointed last month to assist Jimmy Kamande and Josphat Irungu in handling the junior side. Odoyo is already in Nairobi after traveling to the city for the team’s trials alongside players from Mombasa, who were listed in the team. While Kamande and Irungu remain head coach and assistant respectively, Odoyo has been assigned the role of batting coach while Obuya and Otieno are working with the batsmen in the 16-man provisional team. It’s still not clear what role Asiji is playing but sources have hinted that his appointment is based on his experience when it comes to working with age-groups. The source was hopeful that all the coaches will pull in one direction and ensure the team post good results. “It’s our prayer that they will all work together and pull in one direction. I hope they will all understand that they have been put there because of one goal which is to ensure Kenya qualify for the U19 World Cup once again,” the source said. Kenya will be seeking to make a return at the global showpiece early next year in South Africa. In 2017, Kenya shocked Uganda to qualify for the event after 16 years absence. For the Africa region, there are 14 teams across both divisions thus— 11 in Division 2 and three in Division 1. Those in Division Three will be seeking to join Namibia, Kenya and Uganda in Division 1, with the top team qualifying for South Africa 2020. Two trial matches over two weeks were used to select the team and the team will be reduced to 14 this week. Lack proper development structures and squabbles in cricket leadership in the country has negatively affected the preparations of the team for the Africa World Cup qualifier.