CBK governor Patrick Njoroge has defended banking regulations that require full disclosure of cash transactions exceeding Sh1 million. Speaking when he appeared before the parliamentary Finance Committee, CBK governor said the regulations as enshrined in section 33C of banking laws are in line with international anti money laundering regulations. He warned that Kenya risks being declared a safe haven for illicit financial flows and cut from international financial systems if it does away with those regulations. ‘’Consequences of doing away with anti money laundering are harsh. Kenyan banks will be blacklisted in the international market with international banks operating in the country recalled. Kenya will be regarded a safe haven for money laundering’’, Njoroge said. He said regulation on full disclosure of cash transactions is in the best interest of the country’s security, economy and fight against corruption. ‘’We remain vulnerable to money laundering and terrorism financing due to our geographical location. We therefore have a task to ensure illicit financial flows are not happening via our financial institutions,’’ Njoroge said. The regulator revealed that less than 0.7 per cent of bank accounts in Kenya have a balance of Sh1 million hence can transact amounts as set in the regulation. ‘’A whole 99 per cent of Kenyans who have less than Sh1 million are not affected by this regulation. Why then should we allow few individuals to get a leeway to transfer illicit finances that can as well be used to harm citizens?” Njoroge posed. The Joseph Limo led committee however accused CBK of implementing regulations in Section 33C of the banking Act without consulting parliament. ‘’We are not opposed to those regulations. This committee is aggrieved that CBK ignored the law process to implement them. It was unfairly imposed on Kenyans,’’ Limo said. Under the tightened rules, any cash transaction on a single day that is over Sh1 million requires branch manager approval while transactions between Sh10 million and Sh20 million have to be given a green light by the regional branch manager or senior manager.