The widow of legendary musician Ayub Ogada yesterday described how she met her late husband in Nairobi. Yvonne, 29, (below) told the Star in Nyahera, Kisumu, Ogada came into her life 11 years ago when she was only 21. Ogada, the Nyatiti maestro was 52. Her home was having a water problem and Ayub decided to help. It was love at first sight. Her mother objected, but she told her she was in love and that she believed Ayub was serious. Yvonne said Ayub died on a couch at about 5pm on Friday watching news in his favourite TV channel Al Jazeera. She was in the kitchen after she had given him some milk, when one of her daughters called her to go and look at the father, because he was speaking to him but he was not responding. “When I went to the sitting room he was seated there with his eyes glued to the TV, his body was still warm , I ran and called my mother in law’s sister who came and told me he was already gone, I closed his eyes because he was no more,” she said. Yvonne the mother of five girls who was strong and she spoke to this reporter described Ayub as a good and caring husband who would do anything to ensure that his family lived a good life. Anytime she utters the deceased name, a broad smile beamed on her face. They met in South C, Nairobi, in 2008 in what she called love at first site. “I remember we were having problems with water and I was moving around in search for the same when I met Ayub who offered to help. A few days later he visited and met my mum, even though my mum tried complaining of the age difference, he said he had seen a beautiful flower that he was not ready to let go. “The rest is history, but my husband whom we have five children with, was loving caring and very strict. Yvonne told the Star that Ayub has been sick on and off for the last two years and they later realised that he had a spinal problem that was being treated. She says for the last two weeks before he met his death, he was jovial, met friends and chatted most of the time with family members and we even thought he had finally fully recovered. “Despite being sick, he could not go a day without playing his ‘Nyatiti ‘ favourite song Koth Biro produced in 1993, sometimes he would even teach me saying he is where he is because of that, he always joked to me that Nyatiti was his wife. She says Ayub told her that together with a friend they were working on his third album, but God took him before this was completed. His most famous song Koth Biro (Dholuo for the rain is coming) was played at the Rio 2016 Olympics as Kenya’s athletics legend Kipchoge Keino received the Olympic Laurel award. He has also featured in Hollywood blockbuster ‘The Constant Gardener’, NBC’s ‘The Philanthropist’ and a Guinness advertising campaign throughout Africa. Ayub has also appeared in several motion pictures, including ‘Out of Africa’ and ‘The Kitchen Toto’ other than travelling the world to play his music.