Book: The Roots of Somali Crisis, An Insider’s Memoir Author:  Colonel Ahmed Omar Jess Genre: xxx Publisher: Sexx Available: Worldxxxt Price: xxx  The
Roots of Somali Crisis, An Insider’s Memoir by
Colonel Ahmed Omar Jess published in November 2018 presents
a systematic and holistic first-hand account of the Somali crisis. Jess aims to
provide insights into the events that led to Somalia becoming a “failed state”,
the failure by the international military and the reconciliation interventions
that followed. He reveals how the unmet expectations of the Somali people and bad
leadership after Independence sowed seeds of discord. The lessons presented are crucial for the process
of shaping the future of a peaceful and stable Somalia. The author of the book is a former division commander and head of Military Intelligence under
Siad Barre, the third president of Somalia (1969-1991) after he overthrew
Mukhtar Mohamed Hussein. This explains his capacity to disclose previously
unknown facts about the events that inexorably led to state collapse and war in
Somalia. Jess played a significant role in overturning Siad Barre’s rule, whose
failures, as he argues in the book, plunged Somalia into turmoil. In Part 1 of the book, Jess provides a summary of
Somali’s historical background, from a personal account, from the struggle
for Independence to the formation of the Somali republic, in what he
describes as the process of “pan-Somalism.” He joined the Somali National
Army in 1969 and served as the commanding officer for various divisions until he
was appointed the head of Military Directorate. Throughout the years, the
prevailing situation of the capital city was entirely tense, which Jess
attributes to the political environment. The book traces the history of the birth of Somali
state back to 1901 during the “Dervish Movement,” which resisted the British, the Italian, and the Ethiopian occupation. The movement was led by Sayid Mohamed Abdullah Hassan. The North of Somalia was a British Protectorate, while
the South and the Western Somali were under Italian and Ethiopian rule
respectively.  Due to the success of this
movement, Abdullah Hassan is regarded as the pioneer of Somali nationalism. The
Somali Youth Club was later formed in 1943 and it evolved to the Somali Youth
League. According to the author, SYL strived relentlessly for
Independence and it was the main representative of the Somali interests at the
United Nations. The key interests of Somalis at this time was the establishment
of a United Somali, a plea that was highly disregarded by the international community. Somaliland and Somalia eventually unified after independence in
1960. Jess argues the events in the region during this time were rooted in
the spirit of Somali nationalism, which unfortunately formed the ground for clan
and sub-clan politics later.  As Jess
contends, the country is a perfect expression of “nationalism that was not well-nurtured”. Jess says after the birth new Somali
Republic, there emerged disputes at the top echelons of leadership. Besides the
scarcity of resources, other difficulties facing the young nation included the
international order and the Ethiopia challenge. By 1963, there were armed
movements referred to as “Nasullah” led by Garaad Mukhtar Dahir, and in the
nationalism spirit, Somali went into war with Ethiopia and later with Kenya (Shifta
War, 1963-67). President Sharmarke and the Prime Minister held conflicting perspectives
regarding the conflicts, which led to the appointment of a new Prime
Minister Abdi Razak. In October 1969, there was a coup and the Armed forces
resumed power. Jess notes the coup was supported by the North and the Southern
populations, who were dissatisfied with President Sharmarke’s
leadership.  The Supreme Revolutionary
Council was formed, and a number of milestones were realised in the
education, agriculture, and health sectors. Regardless of the unification, the
North and the South operated as distinct entities and SRC (which later
dissolved in 1976) played a critical role in uniting the two regions. The book
further explores the cause of failure during this time and highlights that President
Siad Barre’s failures and faulty decisions formed the immediate triggers of the
conflict. Jess cites confrontation with Quran teachings, expulsions of USS
military experts, and decision to join the Arab League as some of the bad
decisions. In Part 2, Jess describes the immediate
events that led to the collapse of the Somali state. He singles out the 1977
war between Somalia and Ethiopia as an important aspect of the country’s
history. Jess notes that many sources that document the war oversimplify issues
to fit into the values regarded as acceptable by the majority. He, however,  goes
against the norms by narrating the actual events surrounding the war. He says President Barre’s failures made a significant contribution towards
Somalia’s defeat in the War. According to him, it was more prudent to focus on
negotiated peace than pursuing an ambitious military victory. Another mistake
by the president was the expulsion of USSR, which accelerated Ethiopia’s regional
power. As Barre’s regime became increasingly repressive, he ordered the
execution of the military officers who opposed his handling of the conflict with
Ethiopia. This led to the 1978 attempted coup. Jess explores how the 1988 civil war played a
critical role in the collapse of the Somali state. In his analysis of the causes
of the civil war, Jess argues that the agreement betweenBarre and
Ethiopia’s dictator Haile Mariam on how to handle Ogaden and Isaak sub-clans
as well as the SNM (armed movement) instigated the conflict. The opposition
movements in Somalia continued to gain more power. The most popular among them was
the SNM, which mainly comprised of the Isaak sub-clan. Barre’s regime continued
to use oppressive means to respond to the opposition such as curfews,
execution, and detention. As the head of the Directorate of Military Intelligence,
Jess provides a precise account of the happenings, and he asserts the situation
got out of hand when the President’s confidential report was leaked in 1988. Over
the years, Jess grew to become a key player in the armed opposition against the
ruling regime, which led to Barre’s eventual fall. The attacks by the opposition
military forces played a key role in weakening Barre’s regime. In Part 3, he addresses factional politics
in Somalia, and why they left a divided country after the fall of Barre. Jess
narrates in appreciable detail the general situation of the country immediately
after Barre was defeated and forced to flee to Kenya in April 1992. All the armed
groups united to form the Somali National Army, which controlled a large
proportion of the country. He assesses various factors that weakened
the possibility of cooperation between the clans. One key aspect he notes is the KaDhashay policy by President Barre, which required people to be in regions populated by their clans. He notes
that the efforts to unite and regain stability in Somalia failed because various
attempts occurred co-currently. Part 4 of the book is about external interventions
in the 1990s to restore order in Somalia, which failed disastrously. Part 5 highlights the initiatives by foreign forces led by the UN between
1992 and 1996. Jess also includes into the narrative how war impacted on natural
calamities, including the famine in 1991. He argues that the primary cause of the
famine was the return of Barre to Baidoa in his attempt to regain power. He elaborates further on Barre’s return and the
consequences. In the last part of the book, the writer provides a reflective view of
the Somali crisis, noting that the worst damage to the republic occurred
during Barre’s misrule. He also reflects on other aspects which may have
greatly contributed to the collapse of Somali state. The
Roots of Somali Crisis is an informative source that sheds
light on the genesis of the major challenges facing Somali today. The
protracted civil war, cycles of famine, piracy, and attacks by extremists have
destroyed the country’s economy, and forced millions to free and seek refuge in
other countries. Jess is , however, is optimistic about the future. “There
is hope for Somali”, he says. In the search of potential paths, Jess’s book is
of great value to policy makers, leaders, conflict resolution experts and peacemakers,
security agents, and the international community whose support is essential in
ensuring Somalia rises again.