 It is said that tribalism in Kenya is not
inborn because it cannot be traced to ancient times. Kenya’s tribalism is a
product of modern times arising from colonialism and post-Independence politics. We all know about the colonial principle of
divide and rule. As one observer puts it, they magnified differences amongst
the various communities and tribes, instigating clashes. This served as the
breeding ground for negative tribal stereotypes and suspicions, which then
became embedded in popular belief. This suspicion persisted till we gained Independence
in 1963, at which point it shot up as the two major parties, Kadu and Kanu,
began jostling for power. Kanu was a party largely dominated by two
tribes, the Kikuyu and the Luo. Kadu, on the other hand was a coalition of all
the other small tribes that feared being dominated by Kanu. If tribalism begot corruption, marginalisation
and oppression for most Kenyans in the early years of our independence, Moi and
Kibaki took it to unprecedented levels, peaking at violence and death for many innocent
Kenyans. Tribalism is when one thinks or behaves as
if their tribe is above all other communities or tribes. If you think that way,
you have the disease of tribalism. If you have a tribal consciousness and
loyalty to your tribe no matter what, you’re suffering from the same disease.
If this strong loyalty for your tribe breeds strong negative feelings for
people outside your tribe, you’re suffering from the same disease. If you’re in a position of power and use
the position to reward those from your tribe while punishing or denying the
same benefits or opportunities for those outside your tribe, you have the worst
form of the disease and it’s you every available medication must be given
before all others for if you’re cured, the rest may just heal vicariously by
your very deed of healing and ceasing to be the practitioner of the vice. What then, is the solution? How can those
suffering from the disease be cured? Fortunately, we need not look further than
our border South to see and copy what Tanzania has done. To be sure, there’s nothing wrong to
embrace and be proud of your tribal culture: It’s when embracing that culture
or cultural beliefs hurts others economically and socially that we say no! Tribalism as we know it in Kenya doesn’t
exist in Tanzania because, first, Nyerere made sure he cultivated a national
culture of unity amongst all tribes — and Tanzania has 120 of them — more than
double of what we have. Second, Nyerere also made sure national
policies, especially in education, were such that they fostered this unity. As
a result, Tanzanians don’t have the kind of tribal hatred we have among
Kenyans, which is sadly exported to wherever Kenyans go to seek greener
pastures. Third, no one tribe was allowed — and is
still the case — to dominate in economic, political or social level. For
example, since Independence, four of the five presidents of Tanzania have come
from different tribes. Fourth, the majority of Tanzanians practice
tribal customs, but that’s never allowed to interfere with the notion all
Tanzanians are non-tribal when it comes to resource sharing, allocation and
enjoyment. Fifth, voting in the country has less to do
with tribalism than kicking out of office corrupt politicians via a democratic
process. These are all doable things. Yes, the
president has a heavy load in ending tribalism, but you also have your share,
at least in ridding yourself the tribal hatred of others and that happens, we’ll
have a new, more desirable Kenya. Samuel Omwenga
is a legal analyst and political commentator in the United States   