It may take a while before the National Cross Country Championships returns to Nairobi, according to the AK President Jack Tuwei. This year’s edition will be held at the Eldoret Sports Club, Uasin Gishu County next weekend and Tuwei said this move is aimed at encouraging talent development at the grassroot level. Tuwei said he is delighted the event is being held outside Nairobi for the first time, adding that they will now go round the counties in collaboration with county governments with Kisii set to host the 2020 edition. “We will now be organising the National Cross Country Championships at the counties since this will help in developing talents at the grassroots. In the past, we have had few fans watching the event in Nairobi but I know Eldoret will be a full house,” said Tuwei. He said they hope to select a strong team to the World Cross Country Championships set for Aarhus, Denmark on March 30 and where the country will be defending the overall title they won at the 2017 edition in Kampala, Uganda. “I know the focus will be on Kenya and every country will be plotting to bring us down but we are ready for them. After team selection, we hope to put in place a plan that will see us retain the overall title,” said Tuwei. AK have already released the startlist and the route map for the event, which will be a 2km loop with muddy and obstacle sections. The course has also been certified by IAAF. Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago described the event as a mini World Championships and asked residents of the three counties — Uasin Gishu, Nandi and Elgeyo Marakwet to show up in huge numbers. “This will be a mini-World Championships and that is why I want to ask all fans to come in large numbers so they can watch their sons and daughters live on home soil. Those who will win in Eldoret are most likely to bag medals in Denmark next month,” said Mandago. Maureen Anduro, representing Oxygen Group and Lotto Foundation, said they will continue supporting athletics in Kenya. The race is expected to start at exactly 2pm just like the international events. National Police Service, Kenya Defence Forces, Kenya Prisons and over 14 regions will battle it out to produce the best athletes who will represent the country in the global event. Defending champion Geoffrey Kamworor will lead the Police team with young athletes expected to give him a run for his money. World U-20 champion in 10,000m Rhonex Kipruto, world cross country silver medallist Leonard Barsoton and Josphat Kipchirchir are among the runners expected to pull major upsets. World 5,000m champion Hellen Obiri will lead KDF’s onslaught but faces major opposition from the likes of World Half Marathon bronze medallist Pauline Kaveke, Commonwealth Games 10,000m silver medalist Stacy Ndiwa and world 10,000m bronze medalist in 10,000m Agnes Tirop, a former world cross winner.