Arguably the most uninspiring AFC Leopards squad since they returned to the top flight league in 2007 get an opportunity to redeem themselves in the eyes of their success-starved fans and their new coach Andre Casa Mbugo when they take on their eternal rivals Gor Mahia at Moi Stadium, Kasarani afternoon. Coach Mbugo who witnessed first hand the difficulty of the job handed to him as Leopards fell to a 2-1 home defeat to Mount Kenya United admitted that it will be an uphill task for his side teetering on the borders of the relegation zone to get something out of this clash. “Gor Mahia is a tough team and they are currently doing good. I coached Mustafa (Francis) and Jack (Tuyisenge) so I know what threat they can pose. It will be hard turning things around at AFC because I have not been involved much with the signing and pre-season but I will do my best,” Mbungo noted. AFC’s loss against Mount Kenya was their fourth in five games and they are currently languishing at 15th spot in the standings with 10 points from 11 games, only two shy of the automatic relegation slots. Skipper Robinson Kamura, one of the handful of recognizable faces in the first team alongside big Salim Abdalla has rallied his teammates to give their all in the tie and notes that this could be the turning point of their season. “The derby knows no form. We have to give our best for this game because we know how much it means to the fans. We are of course not happy with the way results have been going for us but we will work as players to get back to the top,” Kamura said. “Gor is a good team with a lot of experience and we know it will not be easy.” With their domestic aspirations back on track following back to back league victories K’Ogalo coach Hassan Oktay, who will also be handling his first derby was quick to point out that despite their recent wobbles, the clash with Ingwe is still fraught with danger. “The derby is an important match to everyone especially the fans and we need to work hard to get a result. AFC are not doing well now but that is not to say we will approach them easy. Everybody turns out different for the derby and we have to work hard to win,” the tactician remarked. Meanwhile, Kenyan Premier League security team led by GMT Ottieno have set aside strong security measures to make sure there will be no violence in today’s clash. For starters, the team has requested for 100 policemen as well as 2 platoons from GSU. Six police officers will be on horses with dog handlers also set for duty. The two sides last met last year with the encounter ending in chaos as Leopards fans destroyed seats at Moi Stadium, kasarani. This led to Sports Kenya demanding Sh3.6m for damages caused and the league managers do not want a repeat of this. Tickets will be sold between 9am and 2.30pm after which gates will be closed to ensure there is enough time for fans to settle an avoid long queues at the match venue. “I urge all the fans to get in the stadium very early. We must stop the culture of last minute rush. Fans should be settled at least 15 minutes to kick off. We don’t want a scenario where we will have fans pushing each other at the gate, let them come to Kasarani very early,” GMT noted.