The Sh5.3 billion Lower Nzoia Irrigation Project will boost rice production and prevent destructive floods, an irrigation board official has said. National Irrigation Board deputy general manager Raphael Ogendo on Thursday said 20,000 acres will be irrigated. “The mega project will put close to 20,000 acres under irrigation in Siaya and Busia counties along the lower part of lower Nzoid. Apart from rice, crops such as fruits, vegetables, soybeans and maize will be grown on rotational basis. Ogendo said farmers will generate an estimated Sh4.8 billion annually. More than 70,000 people will be protected from floods. It will create thousands of jobs. The project is part of other programmes the government has put in place towards puttting 1.5 million acres under irrigation by 2022. The project will contribute to food security, economic growth and enhanced climate resilience for farmers. Ogendo said the project has two components — dyke rehabilitation which will cost Sh1.4 billion and irrigation to cost Sh3.8 billion. The project awarded to Sinohydro Company started in June last year. It is expected to be complete in 2021. It is funded by the International Development Association of the World Bank and the German government at Sh3.9 billion and Sh1.4 billion, respectively. The government will spend Sh1.5 billion to compensate those who will be affected by the project. The project, which cuts across Siaya and Busia counties, will reduce the impact of the perennial flooding in the Lower Nzoia, between Rwamba and Lake Victoria. Ogendo said the work includes construction of an intake, water conveyance infrastructure and an infield system in Ugunja. The existing 28.4km dykes will be improved and another 5.8km of dykes set up on either side of River Nzoia. Budalang’i is one of the areas frequently hit by floods. The annual flooding occurs when River Nzoia burst its banks, submerging dykes. This leads to loss of life and property. Bunyala scheme Ogendo on Thursday toured the area and said he is satisfied with the progress at the Lower Nzoia Irrigation project intake. He said the project will help Bunyala Irrigation Scheme change from a pump-fed system irrigation to a gravity-fed system. It will also open up more land under irrigation. In phase one, Ogendo said, 10,000 acres will be put under irrigation. About 25,000 people will benefit directly. “We plan to have 5,000 acres under rice farming and 5,000 acres of high-value horticultural crops such as vegetables, bananas and watermelons on rotational basis.” In the second phase, rice and other crops will be grown on 10,000 acres. To ensure sustainability, Ogendo said they will strengthen programmes on effective water use. Bunyala scheme manager Edwin Manyonge said once complete, the total rice acreage will rise to 5,000 acres from the current 2,078. The acreage under rice production in Bunyala increased to 2,078 acres from 534 acres in 1996 when the scheme was started. High-value crops, Ogendo said, will take 5,000 acres, bringing the total acreage under the Bunyala Irrigation Scheme to 10,000 acres. two seasons Last year, the scheme recorded 5,500 tonnes of rice up from 3,520 tonnes the previous year. The increase followed the adoption of two planting seasons. “Under the new crop calendar, farmers plant rice for four months, then take a four-month break during which they plant other crops,” Manyonge said. dilapidated facilities Farmers Christopher Obuya and Mary Auma are optimistic the lower Nzoia project will improve their rice harvest. They complained of high cost of production and dilapidated irrigation facilities, which lead to low efficiency. Obuya said they don’t have a ready market and urged the government to build a rice mill to protect them from exploitation by middlemen.