Mandera’s top 15 KCSE girls have been awarded full university scholarships by the county to study cancer medicine and science. They will leave the county for Turkey once they get admissions and all requirements are met. Governor Ali Roba yesterday said they will be enrolled in marketable courses such as engineering, technology and architecture. “We want to see this very noble initiative act as a positive challenge to our daughters so they aim higher and achieve greater heights in education,” he said. “We need to do away with this notion that some courses can only be studied by men. Our girls have proved that given a chance they can perform even better.” The county chief said they will invest more funds to support poor students in secondary and tertiary institutions. The Mandera County Bursary Fund was established in 2014. This year, the county allocated Sh126 million. It will increase the cash in the future, depending on the number in need. “We need to stay committed to our individual and collective roles to turn around the education sector, which is showing signs of recovery, despite constant insecurity challenges.” Roba said no bright child will drop out of school for lack of fees. They will be supported up to the tertiary level. The students will play a great role in the county’s development once they complete their education, he said. Roba said the poor and the rich must have equal opportunities in education, the key to unlocking the potential of each child. “The Ministry of Education is committed to enhancing access to equitable, quality and relevant education at all levels. It’s also committed to improving access to technical and vocational education training,” the county chief said. He said residents now place great emphasis on education and his administration will do all it takes to “fix the challenges students face.” “Realising the importance of the education sector, my government has set aside funds to address students’ challenges,” Roba said. He said security remains paramount in ensuring uninterrupted learning. He urged residents to work closely with security agencies to ensure learners and communities are safe. The county has been prone to terror attacks. Its closeness to Somalia makes it an easy target for al Shabaab.