Nigerian President Mohammadu Buhari has registered his disappointment after the Independent National Electoral Commission postponed the Presidential elections. The presidential and parliamentary elections were postponed for a week. The announcement was made five hours before the polls were due to open on Saturday. "Proceeding with the election as scheduled is no longer feasible," commission chairman Mahmood Yakubu said, citing logistical issues. More on this: Nigeria elections postponed for a week "I am deeply disappointed that despite the long notice given and our preparations both locally and internationally, INEC postponed the elections within hours of its commencement," Buhari said via Twitter on Saturday evening. Buhari said many Nigerians have travelled to various locations to exercise their right to vote, and international observers have already gathered. "INEC themselves have given assurances, day after day and almost hour after hour that they are in complete readiness for the elections. We and all our citizens believed them," he said. "This administration has ensured that we do not interfere in any way with the work of INEC except to ensure that all funds were released to the commission." Buhari asked the INEC to ensure not only that materials already distributed are safe and do not get into wrong hands, but that everything is done to avoid the lapses that resulted in this unfortunate postponement. "Thy should also ensure a free and fair election on the rescheduled dates... I urge all political stakeholders and Nigerians to continue to rally round INEC at this trying national moment in our democratic journey," he said. He appealed to all Nigerians to refrain from all civil disorder and remain peaceful, patriotic and united to ensure that no force or conspiracy derail our democratic development. "I have decided to move back to Abuja to ensure that the meeting called by INEC with all stakeholders is successful," he added. In the past two weeks several INEC offices have been set alight, with thousands of electronic smart card readers and voter cards destroyed. There have also been claims of shortages of election material in some of the country's 36 states. Nigeria has been forced to bolster its security, with the run-up to the elections marred by violence. On Friday, officials in north-west Nigeria reported the discovery of the bodies of 66 people, 22 of them children and 12 women, killed by "criminal elements". Click here for the latest political news