Poor monitoring skills largely contribute to absence of loan use data within Saccos, according to a report by the regulator. The latest Sacco Societies Regulatory Authority report say that 64 per cent of responses point to lack of finances, skilled human resource, poor network distribution as contributing to challenges in monitoring how members use their loans. The problem is made worse where Saccos have no loan usage monitoring policy with 28 per cent responses indicating this as a challenge. Members’ unwillingness to explain their purpose for the loan contributed 17 per cent to the hiccups as members said their privacy was being invaded. Only one per cent said poor product features is to blame for missing monitoring features. According to the report, the traditional member-based nature of Saccos was built around financing of members’ social needs. The Saccos usually grew from strong social foundations, where members were accountable to each other within the closed bonds. Members were mostly from a common background such as agriculture, or in a common career. In this format, members knew each other well and developed strong levels of trust. This facilitated cross-guarantees between members, and negated the need for interrogating the purpose to which members would apply their loan proceeds. This, has however, changed as Saccos expand, providing market driven micro-credit products to a bigger and more diversified member base. The new development has effectively diluted the historical strong social bonds, ushered in new risk factors in credit and the need for other forms of additional collateral other than member guarantees, the report says. This has necessitated the need to verify the purpose of every loan, the ability of the project to generate additional income for loan repayment, and the need to monitor loan proceeds usage more closely In the past, Saccos used one or a mix of methods to monitor loan usage when they disbursed loan proceeds directly to beneficiary institutions, through partial loan disbursement including the release of funds being pegged on stage of completion of the funded project. The Saccos would also request for reference documents to verify the purchases of products or commodities and at times they made physical visits to verify if the funds were used for the intended purposes.