The other day my Maya was playing outside with her friends. One of the little girls suddenly declared, “My mother bought me cake and ice cream and chocolate!” “Lies,” my Maya shouted. “Truth of God,” the little girl swore. Then everyone went silent and moved on. After a short while, my Maya walks into the house and asks me to buy her cake, chocolate and ice cream. “Why?” I asked. “Because Baby’s mother bought her and she is boasting!” I asked her how she knew for sure Baby’s mother bought her the stuff and she yelled, “She said truth of God!” I laughed quietly and told her that there was bread in the kitchen if she was hungry. The more things change, the more they stay the same. I remember as children, if you wanted to shut everyone up even when you knew you were lying, you would swear, draw a cross with saliva on your forehead and point your index finger to the sky. No one dared oppose what you were saying. I also discovered that God was not going to jump out of the bushes, pointing his big hands at me screaming ‘Liar’, nor was I going to be struck by lightning and so it worked for me as a child. I figured out early that mentioning God was neither here nor there, but because my peers did not know, I could win arguments. When we grow old(er) and because we are of sound mind, there is a need to stop using God or religion as a crutch. If a grown up, with all their senses intact thinks by swearing to God makes what he/she is saying true, please note you are dealing with a pathological liar. Listen, unless you can invite God to the room to substantiate your claims, please provide facts. Last week social media was on fire with talk of some rogue followers of Christ who had been accused of rape and transmission of STIs. As if their actions were not shattering enough, they decided to publicly announce that they were sinners with a horrible past and that God was working on them and they would soon have a testimony (paraphrased). Have you ever just wanted to jump on the spot? What God is doing in your life is your business, which you can address at your own personal time, to people who care. You cannot and must not brush off a criminal offence with some Bible verses and evangelical rhetoric. We see it all the time, armed robbers turned pastors. God might have forgiven you but you have a debt to society. We have laws that do not and should not care that you are a work in progress and soon your powerful testimony will move millions. We need to stop trusting people because they loosely quote a few Bible verses. Why are we afraid of questioning these self-proclaimed ‘men and women of God’? Once someone mentions God, we drop all our intellectual abilities and give in to the most ridiculous activities such as eating grass and sucking male body parts expecting miracles. These may seem far-fetched to you now but I think those who ended up doing them were at one point in your shoes. Nothing done by one human being is alien to the next. What must we do? We must question, we must reason. We grew up in fear of this God. We were taught this fear by wicked people who used and are still using religion for their own selfish gains. I highly doubt that God has a problem with you using the brain He gave you. I mean, you believe He created you, why would He waste that space in your head with a brain if He did not want you to think? He would have used that space for something else, like storing water, to allow us to go long distances without water bottles. The world runs on principles. You say something, back it up with facts; you commit a crime, please do the time. As parents, let us stop committing our children to the hands of people just because they claim to be religious. This might result in a drop in cases of extremism and sexual deviance. Finally, as individuals, let us think, reason and question. Not everyone who comes in the name of God is ‘holy’. fellyoyuga@gmail.com