The new standard-gauge railway between Mombasa and Nairobi has been listed among 13 most magnificent rail tours for 2019. According to an article published by The Telegraph, the SGR ranked seventh out of 13,  lies along the Maasai-inspired Amboseli Serena Safari Lodge which has majestic views of Kilimanjaro. The article further indicated that the Kilaguni Serena Safari lodge has been designed to blend into the rugged Savannah and overlooks a waterhole visited daily by herds of elephant and buffalo. "The SGR provides the link between the coast and Amboseli and Tsavo West national parks for 3½ days of game drives. The four nights in the lodges are flanked by a night in Mombasa," read part of the article. The article puts Inlandsbanan, Sweden at position one. The article said Sweden’s Inlandsbanan traverses what is described as the continent’s last wilderness of untouched forests and lakes. "The 663-mile (1,067km) railway from Mora to Gallivare links isolated Lapland settlements with a variety of attractions," it read. Britain's Flying Scotsman is ranked in the second position, followed by Bordeaux, Cognac and the Loire, Habsburg Trail in Central Europe,Flavours of Tuscany in Paris and Colombo to Jaffna in Sri Lanka in third, fourth, fifth and sixth position respectively. The Grand Tour in Scotland comes in eighth position after Kenya followed by the Highlights of Poland in position nine and the Tangier to Marrakech Morocco which is still regarded as the first high-speed rail line in Africa. Castles of Transylvania in Istanbul is at position eleven, followed by Japan's High-speed art and South Korea's Seoul to the sea in twelfth and thirteen positions respectively. Read: 13 of the most remarkable rail tours for 2019 The construction of the SGR has so far earned Kenya praise from regional Heads of State who now want Uganda, Rwanda and South Sudan to follow suit. During the 14th Summit on the Northern Corridor Integration Projects (NCIP), the regional leaders were impressed by Kenya's commitment to a modern railway network, having completed and launched the first phase of the SGR from Mombasa to Nairobi and commissioned the second phase from Nairobi to Naivasha. "The Mombasa-Nairobi section of the SGR is already transporting an increasing number of passengers and cargo,” the leaders noted in a joint communique released at the close of the summit held in Nairobi. Read: Museveni and Kagame praise Uhuru for SGR, ask for more partners During the December Holiday, President Uhuru Kenyatta boarded the SGR to Mombasa where he spent the Christmas holiday and part of new year. Uhuru, accompanied by First Lady Margaret Kenyatta were captured as they mingled with and said hello to other passengers on board. See: Uhuru mingles with passengers on surprise SGR trip to Mombasa Click here for the latest political news  