A former senior Administration policeman who beat up and broke the leg of a Mathare hawker eight years ago will be sentenced on Thursday next week. Last month, Makadara senior principal magistrate Angelo Kithinji found Gregory Wabwire guilty of physically assaulting and causing grievous harm to Dominic Munywoki in 2011. A source at the International Justice Mission, the rights group that took up the case and compiled the evidence that nailed the officer, told the Star that its lawyers had been notified that February 14, will be the mention date for sentencing. The court had heard that the 37-year-old Munywoki was selling eggs in Mathare on December 31, 2011, when the officer approached him and ordered him to move a hand cart from the roadside. “But he declined the order, explaining to the officer that the cart was not his,” the charge sheet read. This “disobedience” infuriated Wabwire, who set on the hawker with a slaps, blows and kicks. The officer roughly pulled him away from the scene as he beat him. He took him to the Huruma Chief’s Camp. There, the assault continued, this time with a metal bar. The complainant suffered deep head cuts and a broken leg. At the same time, the accused’s colleagues blocked members of the public from intervening. On realising that Munywoki was injured, the officer ordered his juniors to take him to Huruma Police Station. At the station, Munywoki reported this assault under OB number 60/31/12/2011. He also obtained a P3 form that indicated the degree of harm he had sustained. He was later admitted to Kenyatta National Hospital for two months. With the complaint effectively lodged against him, the AP went underground and was subsequently discharged from service. He was at large for more than two years but was arrested in August 2014 at Nambale in Busia county following a tip-off from the public. Wabwire was thereafter charged with assault. The magistrate said the prosecution had proved its case “beyond reasonable doubt, directly linking Wabwire to the serious harm that Munywoki sustained”. This is yet another case of police impunity successfully prosecuted. The immediate previous one involved former Ruaraka OCS Nahashon Mutua, who was convicted of fatally brutalising an inmate with a metal pipe in December 2013, killing him. Mutua unsuccessly tried to frame another inmate. He was expected to be sentenced yesterday but this was postponed to Thursday next week.