Just six years ago, Paul Mungai Kiongera was the hottest property in Kenyan football. Not only had the youngster helped Gor Mahia to their first league title in 18 years but he had also helped hosts Harambee Stars clinch the Cecafa Senior Challenger Cup, the East Africa regional football showpiece. That was 2013 and now after struggling with injuries for the last couple of years, the Webuye-born striker is seeking his way back to the top tier through National Super League outfit, Ushuru. “It has been a difficult spell for me with injuries which obviously have derailed my ambitions as a footballer. I have, however, recovered now and hopefully injury issues are behind me and I can focus towards helping my team achieve their objectives this season,” remarked the shaggy haired goal getter. Indeed, Kiongera seemed destined for greatness from the moment he left his first top flight club KCB for Gor after plundering 11 league goals for the struggling bankers. After his title winning heroics with K’Ogallo, where he was on loan, the player returned to Ruaraka. His dreams seemed to come true when Tanzania giants Simba poured millions of shillings to lure him to Dar-es-salaam. “It was an experience I was keen to have playing in a foreign league. Unfortunately, things did not work out as planned largely due to a knee injury I got,” he stated. Simba were not keen to let their investment go to waste and pulled all stops to aid a quick recovery including funding the players operation in India. After recovery Kiongera tried to find his way back to the top but the footballing world had moved on in his injury enforced absence. “Returning from a lengthy spell out is never easy. I am just grateful that I can still do what I love—playing football. Some never get this second chance,” Kiongera added. The forward, who also had a year long spell with AFC Leopards—his last team in the Kenyan premier league— has not given up hope of going toe to toe with the best defenders in Kenya’s top flight in the not too distant future whether with the tax men or another team altogether. “I have left everything in the hands of God. I am just focused on helping Ushuru and after that we will see what plans are there for my future,” concluded the striker. Ushuru are currently second in the National Super League in a tight contest for promotion to KPL. Ken Kenyatta’s experienced outfit boasting of Premier League calibre players like skipper Barrack Odhiambo, Oscar Mbugua, Edwin Mwaura and Brian Yakhama have been tipped by many to go one better than last year and claim one of the coveted two automatic promotion slots.