  Security
sources say a silent competition between Somalia's two rival militant groups,
ISIS and al Shabaab, is believed to have prompted the recent terror attacks in
Nairobi A deep desire
from the two groups to outwit the other and show their relevance has pushed
them to export their terror outside Somalia to capture international attention. "Kenya
has unfortunately fallen victim to Daesh and al Shabaab competition to remain
relevant in the region. Al Shabaab took advantage of its Kenyan Muslim reverts
to attack their own country and people. There are so many Kenyans in al
Shabaab, including very senior commanders," the source, who declined to be
named, said.  MULTI-NATIONAL
TERRORISTS Al Shabaab,
is the oldest gang of the two and was quick to claim the two Nairobi attacks.
Its multi-national membership believed to include many Kenyans among its ranks
proved vital in aiding al Shabaab to silently execute the attacks under the
radar.  The two sides are sworn enemies,
who have fought each other before in what is shaping up into a supremacy war
for control of millions of US Dollars up for grabs from extortion rackets, the control
of the lucrative charcoal business for export to the Middle East, drug smuggling
routes and local kingpin in Somalia for whoever outwits the other. They compete
on who is more ruthless and such competition keeps them on tabs to plan more
attacks and kill more innocent people. Sadly, this is their main line of business
just like contract killers. The more people they kill the more money they get.  DOT COM
TERRORISTS ISIS is
comprised of mostly foreign and diaspora jihadists who export their terror
campaigns by recruiting unsuspecting young Muslims through deep web social
media, where they also train their agents of terror through online classes.
They are the high-tech savvy terrorists using technology to advance their
misplaced ideology. Talk of dot COM terrorists! Al Shabaab,
on the other hand, has set itself as a local player comprised of mostly
regional members from Somalia, Kenya, Ethiopia, Sudan, Tanzania, Uganda,
Comoros and Burundi. It has extensively recruited from those countries. Unlike
their main competitors ISIS, al Shabaab physically trains its members inside
Somalia in secret facilities. It morphed
out of the once powerful Islamic Courts Union, which controlled much of Somalia
in 2006. It was originally the ICU military wing headed by Afghanistan trained
Somali militants with direct link to al Qaeda. 
When the brains behind al Shabaab started recruiting Kenya youth back
then, little did we know their rationale. Even in Somalia, the group mostly
recruited from minority tribes and clans including Somali Bantu or Jereerweyne.  INTERGRATING
WITH LOCALS  For your
information, the Jareers are the genetic causins of Kenyan Bantu. This makes
the Kenyan recruits feel at home because some of the Bajuni and Jareers in
Southern Somalia bordering Kenya speak Swahili. For intergration purposes this
is vital giving al Shabaab an edge over ISIS. 
Al Shabaab has a tendency of planning for an attack for years. In 2007, the
group confiscated white UN armoured vehicles from central Somalia. Two years
later in November 2009, they used the same vehicles to access and
attack Amisom peacekeepers in the main UN base in Mogadishu's airport using
polished young militants speaking the Queen's language. They
hoodwinked Ugandan peacekeepers who saluted them and waved them into the UN
compound without detecting the improvised bombs planted in the armoured UN
marked cars. That particular attack killed at least nine AU peacekeepers,
including former Amisom deputy commander from Burundi Major General Juvenal
Niyoyunguruza.  ART OF
DECEPTION The group has
mastered the art of deception and deep under cover operations by established
governmental agencies such as the CIA, Mosad and KGB. Sometimes you'd assume
they read and use the same guidebook or protocols.  If you have ever seen those riveting and
suspense filled Hollywood espionage thriller action movies depicting mass
murders and full of angry terrorists who simply love to kill, then you probably
know what am talking about. Whoever is
behind the al Shabaab and ISIS doctrine has a long term plan to simply terrorise
us. It is high
time for Kenya, Somalia and other regional countries to unite and come up with
their own locally thought and executed plan to deal with the murderous
militants, who cut across nationalities and ethnicity as witnessed in the
recent sad events in Nairobi. 