The Runda Residents Association has objected to the construction of a link road to Kiambu, saying it is illegal and disastrous. The construction of Kwaheri Road has been allowed by the Nairobi government and National Environment Management Authority. The project, which started on January 21, 2018, had been stopped only to resume on January 17 this year. “The road construction works commenced without public participation, through which Runda residents’ concerns would have been aired,” the association’s chairperson Helga Schroeder said. “There are serious environmental and social concerns regarding the works being carried out as they are without an environmental assessment or audit.” She said the road, if allowed to continue, will open traffic to Runda, which is already congested being an estate road that lacks the infrastructure to support the ever increasing traffic. “Runda Road, the road to which traffic will open, is in a dilapidated state and more traffic will only worsen its state,” she said. Of worry to the association is security, which they said will get worse as the road will provide a new and busy entry point from Kiambu to Nairobi. Schroeder said the association understands that the link road has been enabled through the acquisition of private land, making the whole project illegal. The residents accuse the county and Nema of inaction, despite several correspondences. Read: Runda residents’ association protests against construction of petrol station The association wrote to Governor Mike Sonko on January 8, 2018, requesting for a meeting, which did not materialise. easy target for terrorists On January 23, 2018, they wrote to both Nema director general Geoffrey Wahungu and Nairobi Roads executive Mohammed Dagane raising its concerns about the road. Neither Nema nor the Roads executive responded, despite various follow-ups. Efforts to reach Dagane yesterday failed. He did not pick our calls or respond to text messages. On February 8, last year, the Runda Association wrote to Wahungu requesting for a courtesy call which did not also materialise. On January 17, this year the association wrote to Sonko and Nema, communicating that they noted with concern the client had obtained approval numbers. The approvals are NCC/RPW/&2665/KMM/tm and NEMA/EIA/PSL/5960 from NCC and Nema respectively. The association said it is not aware of such development, having neither signed a contract with the contractor on site nor participated in any kind of a forum in respect to the road. It was also not clear if EIA had been done. Nema Nairobi county director for environment Njoki Mukiri said her office recently received the complaint from residents. “I think they have been taking their letters to the main office,”Mukiri said. Mukiri said the project is legal as it is a marked road. The association, however, rejected the claim saying the road is being fronted by an individual for selfish business interests. It said it will sue and get injunction if the road is not stopped. A visit to the site by the Star showed that there was no signage as required by law. Also worried that the conversion of residential areas could easily become an easy target for terrorist attack, the association wrote another letter January, 16, 2019. This was after DusitD2 terror attack in which 21 people were killed. “At the dawn of this attack, we note with regret that Riverside used to be a residential area before hotels and offices mushroomed. If commercial enterprises come into a residential area, the place can become an easy target for terrorist attacks and thus a security risk,” the residents said. Regrettably, some change of user approvals to commercial enterprises are given arbitrarily by Nairobi City County and Nema, residents’ objection not withstanding.” The association is against the approvals for The Groove, The Paddocks and The Bedelle in a letter copied to eight agencies. Those copied include Governor Sonko, Nema boss Wahungu, Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet, Interior CS Fred Matiang’i and National Land Commission chairman Muhammad Swazuri. Also Read: State wins bypass case against Runda residents