This week Nigerians were intending to go to the polls in the country’s sixth general election since military rule ended in 1999. In fact, The Nigerian vote is ''the largest democratic event in African history'' [@TheEconomist] The Elections were postponed at 2.40am on election day, by a week. Charlie Robertson tweeted ''#Nigeriadecides but not yet. Postponement is typical. 2011 elections were pushed back twice, the second time when the parliamentary vote had already begun … In 2015 they were delayed by 6 weeks (roughly a week ahead of time)''. 'In a system where candidates jump between political parties as if they were changing buses, personality and money trump policy discussion' tweeted David Pilling. GDP growth has lagged population growth, and grew by 1.93 per cent last year, up from 0.82 percent in 2017 and grew 2.4 percent in the fourth quarter. Nigeria was the second biggest economy in Africa in 2018. Unemployment has risen from 8.2% to 23.1% under President Buhari's watch which would be a plain untenable position for any incumbent politician seeking re-election. The President is a victim of low oil prices which provide 70% of government revenue. ''Baba Go Slow'' has to be contrasted with President Al-Sisi's Egypt. Al-Sisi [and I for one disagree with him on many things particularly with his ''incarceration'' strategy] made bold moves when it came to the Economy. Egypt devalued its currency early, took a brutal punch in the solar plexus but is now reaping the dividend from its bolder economic policy, Nigeria is still muddling along with its ''Voodoo'' level FX economics. Since President Buhari came to power in May 2015, Nigeria's stock market has fallen more than any other in the world, dropping 50% in dollar terms. There is a Message in that performance. The Stock Market has perked up over the last few sessions, however. Atiku Abubakar, the main challenger to Buhari, is also in his 70s. It is an extraordinary outcome that as the continent becomes younger, leaders in many cases are getting older. This elastic band [the difference between the average of leadership and the average of its citizens] is now stretched to breaking point and will snap. Abubakar has struck a Bill Clinton circa 1992 when he kept chanting "It's the economy, stupid". Atiku Abubakar's mantra is “Let’s Get Nigerians Working Again”. Citing Margaret Thatcher, he says he wants to privatise state-owned firms, which frankly is the optimal economic policy if done fairly and increases ownership in the Nigerian economy. I saw The Thatcher Revolution up close and personal and it worked. From Ethiopia to Nigeria to many other parts of Africa, governments are running out of headroom and they absolutely need to embrace Thatcherism. It is a silver bullet. Overturning Incumbents is a thankless task. Not too long ago we saw a number of upsets in West Africa. However, recently we witnessed a Nollywood level plot twist in DR Congo and it's clear the will of the people was not expressed in the result. “They are aware that the rest of the world is busy with bigger issues, In Africa, things are most likely to get worse before they get better,” Mbeki said. "We are tired of these same old leaders, We are laying the foundation for a revolution in 2023." Until then, Nigeria will be stuck with mediocrity pronounced the Economist.