If you are reading this on Saturday February 23, you must already know what the Supreme Court decided on the question of decriminalising homosexuality in Kenya. I am writing this a few days before the decision is reached and despite having thrown the bones, read the tea leaves and stared into a crystal ball over the past few days, I have no idea what the outcome will be. I am not a gambler, because I hate to lose cash. Had I been one though, I would have been even more nervous about the Court’s decision than I already am as I write this. Nevertheless, I am generally an optimist and so I am hoping that the decision was a positive one for Kenya’s queers. But whether things went our way or not, we still have a mountain to climb and it will be a treacherous hike to the top. Over the years, when I have thought about what will happen the day Kenya joins the progressive world and decriminalises homosexuality, I have always maintained that that is when the real work will start. The thing is, no matter what laws are in the books, you cannot legislate people’s thoughts and feelings. Let me put it another way, the mere fact that homosexuality has been decriminalised will not suddenly change the views of homophobes and other bigots. They will still hate us and mistreat us. Let’s face it, laws against rape, murder and theft haven’t been much of a deterrent to rapists, killers and thieves. There will still be parents who don’t just threaten to disown their queer children but actually do. There will still be friends who turn their backs on you for being gay or lesbian. There will still be faith leaders who see you as a sinner and your love as an abomination. There will still be employers who refuse to employ us, or to promote us because of our sexuality. There will still be bars and restaurants that refuse to serve us or do so with contempt when we insist on being treated equally. There will still be medical professionals who treat us with disdain, if they deign to treat us at all. There will be blackmailers who try to extort you for wanting to keep your sexuality a private matter. And there will be police officers who find your orientation problematic when you seek their help after being attacked or worse. While I am aware the wheels of justice in Kenya grind exceedingly slowly - when they grind at all - it will theoretically be possible to sue someone for discriminating against you for whom you love. In saying this, I am aware that all Kenyans already have recourse to a constitutional Bill of Rights in which Section 27 offers them equality and freedom from discrimination, but it doesn’t hurt to have another arrow in our quiver. The hard work on our part, isn’t changing what and how people think of us, I believe that will happen organically over a long time. The tough job will be to remember never be complacent in the struggle to ensure the full realisation of our constitutional and human rights. Follow me on Twitter @MwangiGithahu