A section of Jubilee leaders want all public officers to undergo lifestyle audit in a bid to stem corruption. The MPs, Maina Kamanda (nominated), Paul Koinange (Kiambaa), Naomi Shaban (Taveta), Ngunjiri Wambugu (Nyeri town, Muturi Kigano (Kangema) and former Dagoretti South MP Dennis Waweru on Saturday said only a lifestyle audit will enable the government to nab those engaging in corruption. While reiterating their support for President Uhuru Kenyatta’s anti-graft fight, the leaders noted that rampant corruption adversely affects the economy and called for the jailing of those incriminated. They were speaking at Nyakahura secondary school in Kangema, Murang’a County. Kamanda on his part said it is shocking that some cabinet secretaries have been accused of receiving bribes from foreign contractors. “I know a certain CS who is building a bulletproof building in Nairobi to better protect looted public resources,” Kamanda said. Read: Sack corrupt ministers, Mudavadi tells Uhuru He appealed to Directorate of Criminal Investigations to thoroughly investigate all graft suspects and have them jailed. The MP wondered why the courts release graft suspects on bond saying it may portray the government as if it is not serious about fighting corruption. Shaban said a majority of the governors have been initiating ghost projects that they then use to siphon public funds. “A serious audit should be conducted to establish how much wealth they had when they were elected and how much they have now,” she said. Shaban also urged the Ministry of Devolution to form a team that will inspect development projects funded by county governments. She noted that a large chunk of the revenue disbursed to counties by Treasury ends up in individual’s pockets. "Unlike the county governments’ funds, the CDF kitty that is controlled at the constituency level is felt more on the ground, she said. Read: Tighten oversight role to end corruption, Mudavadi tells MPs Also read; NYS SCANDAL: It’s not corruption, it’s planned looting – Mudavadi Click here for the latest political news