Two police officers accused of shooting dead a 17-year-old Kilifi boy have been detained at Malindi police station. The officers were put in custody after Malindi High Court Judge Weldon Korir ordered the two, Simeon Oyoo Ayodo and Amos Kiptoo Kipsang’ to undergo a psychiatric test before being charged with murder on February 14, 2019. They are charged with the murder of Katana Kazungu on June 26, last year. “I have agreed with the prosecution that the bond be at rest. They should be remanded awaiting mental assessment before trial,” Korir said on Tuesday. The cops will be taken to Malindi district hospital. The accused lawyer Matete Katoto argued the officers are compliant and should be released on bond. “They did not wait to be arrested but presented themselves in court. They have proved they can appear anytime when called upon,” he said. Read: Two cops to be charged with murder of Kilifi boy The request was declined. Muslims for Human Rights and Inform Action said they have put up a ‘watertight’ case against the officers. The two human rights groups documented how the killing took place. Their data helped the Independent Police Oversight Authority to convince the Director of Public Prosecution the officers had a case to answer. On Thursday Muhuri will apply to be enjoined as an interested party. They will hold brief for the family of Kazungu. The court had on January 28 issued arrest warrants against Ayodo and Kipsang’. According to Muhuri, Katana was shot from the back. He and other six were pushing a truck that had stuck on the mud in Tsangatsini village, Kaloleni. The vehicle was transporting stones from a nearby quarry. Police claimed they were informed the lorry had been stolen. They opened fire at the group killing Katana on the spot according to Muhuri. Other bullets were fired in the air. The other six youths didn’t know Katana who then was a class seven pupil at Ndatani Primary School, had been eliminated. The incident took place at 6 pm. An autopsy report revealed police bullet shot at close range pieced through Kazungu’s back. Police had initially denied any involvement and attempted to cover up, Muhuri said. Also read: Leaders want police who killed Kilifi pupil arrested in one week Click here for the latest political news.