When I first heard loud bangs from my office on the fifth floor of a building next to 14 Riverside Drive, I thought of what many Nairobians would in similar circumstances – ‘another tyre burst’ or ‘perhaps a lorry crashing into another’.  But there was persistent rat-a-tat of gunfire. At this point, curiosity came over me, and aI did what I shouldn’t do. I rushed out to the terrace to see what was going on, only to come face to face with an attack first hand (again!). Seeing a mass of humanity running wildly in utter panic, confusion and trepidation, one immediately gets emotions of helplessness and sympathy.  My fears had been confirmed.  The senseless animals called terrorists had struck again. 14 Riverside was such a serene estate. I had said to many people that it was probably the best office park in Nairobi — it had character.  I loved going there for meetings, coffee or lunch.  Now, that serenity had been shattered. After a somewhat chaotic exit from the office, I got home to follow the events on TV, and to explain to my nine and 11-year-old children what was going on. Sadly, they have to know the truth of the evil world we live in.  And then, my emotions moved from sympathy for those who suffered, helplessness on my part, and anger — not only towards the terrorists who carried out the attack, but also (and more so) towards those who planned, orchestrated and financed the attack. I keep questioning why our beautiful Kenya seems to suffer these attacks.  I have a simple answer: The cancer of our society and of our country is corruption. Days after the attack, my anger has turned towards the corrupt in this country. I have lived through all of our post-independence governments and, sadly, through most of our corruption scandals — the All Africa Games, Goldenberg, NSSF, NYS, Anglo Leasing, land grabs, passport scams, security scams, procurement scams, police harassment, food importation scams, Chicken-Gate…the list is endless. So, how did the terrorists get their arms from Somalia to Nairobi?  I suspect through some corrupt official(s) on the border who turned a blind eye for a few shillings.  Why did they turn a blind eye? Possibly, because they can, due to lack of proper border control systems and equipment, which we could easily have bought and operated, if the scammer who was supposed to supply them, had supplied them; or if another scandal didn’t gobble up the money meant to buy the stuff. Perhaps the terrorists got fake identity cards or passports to cross the border.  ‘Anglo-fleecers’ were to supply us with a passport system and CID forensic equipment system and other great things decades ago.  If they had done what they were paid to do, then perhaps by now, our intelligence, immigration and passport issuance systems would be so advanced that it would be impossible for criminals to get through our borders! Why did our intelligence services not detect the threat of this incident?  If they had the technology, manpower, training and equipment to do a better job, they could have detected the threat. However, the tenderpreneur most likely scammed Kenyans of the money that could have been used for this. Our emergency and security services did a great job in responding to the attack, and saved hundreds of lives this time round.  But could they have done better if they were better equipped? Certainly, if resources to buy better equipment were not stolen by the corrupt, who probably were watching the attacks from the comfort of their living rooms. I could go on and on at the lost opportunities for investment in our national security and defence because of the billions that have been pocketed through corruption.  The dire consequences have been loss of thousands of lives, destruction of families, orphaning of beautiful children who were full of hope and who would probably have added great value to the country, destruction of billions of shillings of property, the knock-on effect on tourism, business confidence and our already fragile economy. To the corrupt, whether you are the giver or the taker, remember that the next victim of your greed and dishonesty and theft could be your sister, your child, your mother, your daughter, your friend or, dare I say, yourself!  Your actions are no less evil than those of the animals who have unleashed terror on our country so many times. You are the terrorist! The writer is a lawyer. Email: parasshah1285@gmail.com; Twitter: @parasshahkenya