More than 80 clinical officers from Kilifi have launched free medical camps that will cover all the seven subcounties. They will focus on one subcounty and move to the next after three months. They target thousands of residents who can’t meet medical costs. Besides treatment, they screen diseases and conditions such as diabetes, high blood pressure and cancer. The clinical officers said most rural dwellers die of noncommunicable diseases because they are not detected early. On Saturday, they camped at Adu trading centre — one of the remotest areas of Magarini constituency. MP Michael Kingi, Adu MCA Stanley Kenga and Health department officials attended. Hundreds of residents, both young and old, flocked to Adu dispensary. Those who tested positive for ailments were given medications. Martha Stephen from Kamale, who had an eye problem, received medication and glasses. She thanked the team for coming to her rescue. She said she “could now read the bible”, a problem she had before the camp. Also covered were reproductive health, skin diseases for children, TB, HIV-Aids testing and counselling, and ear, nose and throat (ENT). The officers are members of the Kenya Union of Clinical Officers and the Association of Clinical Officers. Magarini subcounty clinical officer Menza Kirimo said they came up with the idea to support the universal healthcare initiative championed by the national government. “After every three months, we will be visiting a subcounty to reach out to all seven subcounties in the county. Between May and June we will be in Ganze,” he said. Kirimo said they will open a special clinic to deal with specialised cases that are detected in every medical camp to ensure those requiring further attention get help. He said the county has only 95 clinical officers against a demand of 309 — a shortfall of 214. They want more staff hired. MP Kingi thanked the officers for organising the camp. He said the less fortunate will benefit greatly, especially those at the back of beyond. “High blood pressure and cancer have been the most dangerous diseases in the area. The medical camp will also create awareness among locals, who often take long to seek medical attention only to be admitted for treatment when their situations are worse,” he said. MCA Kenga praised the officers for dedicating their time to give back to society.