Pastoralists in Marsabit have started migrating to Ethiopia due to shortage of water and pasture. And Ethiopians are migrating to Kenya. National Drought Management Authority boss Golicha Guyo says all of northern Kenya is slowly facing drought again. Speaking to The Star on Friday, Golicha said the region has been hit by dropping ground water levels. He said they have began trucking water to parched areas. “We are currently experiencing water scarcity and some water spots are under strain due to thehigh numbers of livestock and eople,” Golicha said. He said pastrolists are already moving from areas like Dukana in neighboring Ethiopia. Marsabit is also receiving Wajir county nomads who are crossing boundaries in search of grazing land. “Both immigration and out-migration afe going on. People are trekking long distances in search of scarce water and pasture as the dry spell persists,” Golicha said. A report by the National Disaster Management Authority says the vegetation index for January has declined is still within the moderate vegetation deficit band. The decline means the drought warning has moved from Alert Stable in December 2018 to Alert Deteriorating in January this year. According to the report, the moderate vegetation index was recorded in North Horr, Moyale and Laisamis subcounties. Saku subcounty remained in the normal vegetation greenness range. The situation is expected to worsen, Golicha said. He added that most open water sources have dried up. This has led to breaking of the few strategic boreholes due to overconcentration and weight of livestock. “Security challenges are compounding problems for nomads and stripping them of their movement freedom. This is why most water points are strained,” Golicha said. He said takeholders are trying to respond and said NDMA will do an extensive assessment beginning next week across the region. Previously, camel deaths were reported in El Hadi and North Horr subcounties. They were attributed to high level of nitrates in water. The meteorological department says dry conditions will persist this month. The Met says this will lead to shortage of food and water especially in northern Kenya. It also warned of shortage of pasture and increase in wildfires and dust-storms. The long rains, which will bring a reprieve, are expected to fall in April in northern Kenya.