The Kenya National Bureau of Statistics has debunked claims by sections of Central Kenya leaders that the region contributes 60 per cent to the country’s gross domestic product. Meeting under the banner of Mount Kenya Parliamentary Caucus in October last year, the region’s leaders cited a study that ranked Kiambu County as the richest in Kenya with a GDP per capita of $1,785 (Sh178,500 ). They went ahead to demand that the current revenue allocation formula in counties be reviewed to award more funds to regions that contribute most to the country’s economy. The inaugural KNBS Gross County Product (GCP) report released yesterday shows Nairobi contributes the most of Kenya’s GDP at 21.7 per cent followed by Nakuru at 6.1 per cent. Kiambu, the first county from Mount Kenya region came third at 5.5 per cent with Mombasa and Machakos closing best five with GDP contributions of 4.7 and 3.2 per cent respectively. Total contribution by the nine Central Kenya counties to the country’s economy is at 20.1 per cent with Kiambu generating 5.5, Meru 2.9, Nyandarua 2.6 and Murang’a delivering 2.3 per cent. Others are Nyeri 2.2, Embu 1.4, Kirinyaga 1.4, Laikipia 1.0 and Tharaka Nithi 0.8 percentage points. “We hope that this official survey for the period 2013 to 2017 supplemented by a household survey conducted last year will put to rest speculations about each county’s contribution to the national cake,’’ KNBS director general Zachary Mwangi said. He said the overreaching objective of GCP estimates is to inform economic growth and support county level decision making and economic planning. North Eastern and Coastal counties contributed least to the economy with Isiolo emerging last, contributing only 0.2 percentage points. Others are Samburu which contributes 0.3 , Lamu 0.4, Tana River 0.5 percentage points same as Mandera and Wajir. Even so, the survey shows most counties with small share to GDP are growing at faster rates but mainly due to the base effect. For instance, Elgeyo Marakwet’s economy which contributes only 1.7 per cent to Kenya’s GDP is projected to grow by 10 per cent while Nairobi will grow by six per cent. Counties have an overall average growth of 5.6 per cent. Agriculture and service sector account for the largest share of economic activities. Nakuru, Nyandarua and Kiambu are leading in agricultural output in the country while Nairobi, Mombasa and Kiambu command the service and manufacturing sectors. Nairobi residents are richest in the country with each spending over Sh200,000 per year, above national GDP per capita of Sh96,779. Mombasa has a GDP per capita of slightly above Sh150,000 followed by Kiambu at just above Sh100,000. Only a quarter of the counties are above the national GDP per capita, highlighting huge disparities across counties in terms of GCP per capita. Mandera, West Pokot and Turkana are poorest counties with residents spending less than Sh50,000 per year. National Treasury chief administrative secretary Nelson Gaichuhie who represented CS Henry Rotich said the report will be used to estimate each county’s revenue potential.