Rift Valley counties have been urged to avert a food crisis by importing subsidised fertilisers for maize farmers. It’s already late. The planting season and long rains are almost here. The state has withdrawn from supply of subsidised fertiliser. Three senators and an MP say a shortage will cause high prices and could cause a food crisis. “Even if it means supplementary budgets, counties have to do so to save the farmers from high costs of fertiliser,” Uasin Gishu Senator Margaret Kamar said on Sunday. She commented at the Uasin Gishu county assembly where she visited with Senators Mercy Chebeni (nominated) and Michael Mbito of Trans Nzoia. Farmers are worried over an acute fertiliser shortage, just three weeks to the start of the planting season. Fertiliser prices are expected to increase to more than Sh4,000 per bag and Kamar and her colleagues said many farmers can’t afford fertilisr on the open market. Soy MP Caleb Kostany said the state and counties should help avert a food shortages. Last week DP William Ruto assured farmers in the region that the government would still provide subsidised fertiliser. Ruto said already more than one million bags of DAP fertiliser were in the country and the government would import another two million bags. He asked the Agriculture and Treasury ministries to speed up importation. Kamar and Mbito said counties must swiftly set aside funds for subsidising fertiliser for farmers. Two weeks ago some farmers signed an MoU with a private company to supply DAP fertiliser at Sh3,000 per 50kg bag. The accord followed the government decision not to import fertiliser following irregularities and graft allegations in distribution for the last season. The company Exports Trading Group Inputs Kenya Ltd will also buy maize from farmers for Sh1,900. Businessman Bundotich Kiprop and company representatives met farmers in Eldoret and signed the MOU. The North Rift Farmers Union signed the accordith Charles Lewis, representing the company. “We commit to provide fertiliser and buy maize from farmers,” Lewis said. Kiprop (Buzeki’s) company will provide transportation and logistical support. It will be supplied through co-operatives.