A company
owned by former Prime Minister Raila Odinga has been ordered to pay sh 7.7
million to a Mombasa company over a 2016 debt. Spectre
International limited has been directed by a Mombasa court magistrate Francis Kyambia
to pay Betric Kenya limited for goods they had supplied back in 2016. The Raila-owned
company is also expected to pay for the cost of the suit which was filed in
2017. According to
Betric Company, between May and June 2016, Raila’s company took the company
profile and later made an order for supply of fuel oil (HFO) through LPOs dated
on diverse dates between June and July 2016. Betric said
they delivered the required product totaling to sh 14,500 liters of the
requested oil. They said
they made the delivered the suppliers on two batches. Spectre however
failed to meet their end of the deal after they failed to pay for the goods
within the stipulated period. Betric said
they had agreed to have the payments totaling to sh 8,089,422 within 3 days. “However,
the defendant made some payments leaving a balance of sh 7, 739, 422,”the
company said. Through its
lawyers Wamenyo Onyango and associates, Betric said the acts by Spectre company
has caused pain and anguish to the company which have been left with a debt
they took from a bank. According to
the plaintiff, the loan they took from a financial institute has remained
unserviced and its interests has accumulated. “Our plea to
Raila’s company demanding for immediate payments of the outstanding accruement
have been in vain.Inspite of the repeated promises, the payment have never been
done, ‘they claim. In the
matter, Spectre failed to enter appearance even after being served a notice
through a newspaper advert. A court
server said he attempted to serve the company at its premises located in Kisumu
but was informed the company had shut down. Court server
Julius Raminya informed the court that a gateman at the company had told him
the company had been closed down for one year and it was not known when the
operations were to resume.  