The rivalry between Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru and Woman Rep Wangui Ngirici flared up yesterday at the Kerugoya Catholic church. Devolution Chief Administrative Secretary Rachel Shebesh was to give out Uwezo Fund cheques to 100 women’s groups in a ceremony to be presided over by Waiguru, But Ngirici stormed the hall, tore away banners and left with several women who were waiting for the governor and Shebesh. The woman rep’s action angered members of the public who demanded that she apologise. Waiguru, through her communication office, said it was regrettable that an elected leader could disrupt a function meant to benefit residents. “In this day and age such things should not be happening in politics, we need to work as a team but some elected leaders are going around to stall development for personal gain,’’ Waiguru said. Ngirici asked Waiguru to keep off her business and concentrate on devolved functions, rather than national functions. She said the disbursement of Uwezo funds is a prerogative of her office. On Tuesday Gathoni Wamuchomba presided over a function at Kiambu where the CAS handed over the Uwezo fund cheques, Ngirici said. “Why does Waiguru want to hijack national government projects?’’ she asked. She also wanted Waiguru to explain why she reduced bursary allocations from Sh70 million to Sh20 million without public participation. Waiguru and Ngirici, who are friends-turned-foes, have been feuding since the campaigns for the 2017 General Election. Andrew, Ngirici’s husband is said to be part of those who introduced Waiguru to Kirinyaga politics in August 2016. The two however fell out before the Jubilee party nomination. Ngirici had already declared she would be contesting for the Kirinyaga governor seat, in what would see her compete against Waiguru. The function did not take place as security had been strengthened and many guests walked out. Early last year Waiguru accused Ngirici for being behind a group of hecklers who disrupted her meeting. The governor was heckled by boda boda riders at Gakoigo in April last year during DP William Ruto’s visit to the county. The youths, who appeared drunk, shouted down Waiguru when Ruto called her out to address the crowd. “Waiguru must go! Waiguru must go!” the boda boda riders, who the governor suspects were hired by woman representative Purity Ngirici, shouted.