Oscar Ouma has resumed training with Nakuru RFC and could feature for the Wanyore this weekend when they take on Nondies at Nakuru Athletic Club. Head coach Mitch Ocholla said a decision will be made by the team’s technical bench and if declared fit, Ouma will be named in the match day squad. Ocholla said Ouma who plays as a flanker and centre looked fit during training and they are excited he is back in the squad. Ouma didn’t feature for Nakuru in the Kenya Cup last season as he was with the Kenya Sevens. However, he was instrumental for them during the 2017 National Sevens circuit. “Ouma is a very versatile player. We can use him at back row or in midfield. We can use his experience at this stage of the league and we are glad to have him back. Hopefully, he will be fit for the weekend against Nondies,” Ocholla noted. However, Ocholla asserted that there will be no favours and Ouma will have to earn his place in the team like any other players. On his part, Ouma said he is ready to help his side who are currently 8th on league standings. Wanyore have also been boosted by the return of tight head prop Isaiah Nyariki who has not been with the side for a while. Nyariki took a break from the team to sort out some personal issues but he is now back in training. Ocholla also expects Nelson Oyoo to link up with the team as soon as possible. Oyoo is currently in Nakuru but he is expected to join the team’s training since he is not involved with the Kenya Sevens team at the moment. “We are excited to have Nyariki back. He took a break to attend to some issues but he is now back and we also expect Oyoo to join us. Their return will be major boost and will help boost the confidence of young players,” Ocholla said. Nakuru, who won Kenya Cup under the late James Situma and Dominica Habimana, have struggled for form this season but Ocholla says nothing has gone wrong for his side as they are currently rebuilding after losing several players to Kabras Sugar as well as Menengai Oilers. He said they are working on developing Young players and the progress is still on course. However, he admits they will have to punch above their weight if they have to make it to Kenya Cup play offs. “The message is very clear and we need to improve on performances. We had a break last weekend and we spent it training so we will be ready for this week’s matches. Our target is to get to the play offs,” he noted.