The strength in depth of his Sofapaka squad is the reason head coach John Baraza believes the 2009 champions will sustain the pressure of a title challenge. ‘Batoto Ba Mungu’ will be playing their third match in a week this afternoon when they take on Kenyan Premier league leaders Mathare United at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani. “It is tough playing three matches in nine days but we will manage because we have a very good squad. All the players are able to step up and get into the team and do well. I trust every player in the team and I know we will handle this kind of pressure,” the tactician stated. Baraza’s men picked up a fourth win in five games eight days ago with a slim 1-0 victory over Nzoia Sugar in Machakos—a result that saw them improve their points tally to 20, five behind today’s opponents. “It is good that we are keeping on with our run and hopefully, we can bridge the gap between us and the top teams by the time the first leg ends,” the tactician remarked. Mathare on their part will look to shed the derogative tag of pacesetters that has been placed upon them for their strong start in the first quarter of a campaign that is always followed by unbelievable capitulation. Francis Kimanzi’s side have failed to win any of their last three matches which included a shock defeat to then bottom side, Mount Kenya United. With the naysayers crawling out of their hideouts keen to pick out the Slum Boys Achilles hill, they cannot countenance a loss against a resurgent Sofapaka or else they will be overthrown from top spot by the end of the day. That opportunity to hit the summit should it arise, Bandari will be all to eager to take it. The dockers host Vihiga United knowing that victory could propel them to the KPL leadership. William Wadri and Hussein Abdalla will be relied on for goals against a Vihiga side that has not won any of their last five matches away from home. Kariobangi Sharks returned to winning ways in emphatic fashion in last week’s demolition of soldiers Ulinzi Stars. The virtuoso performance of Sydney Lokale was the highlight of the emphatic victory and the young centre forward will be the go to man once again as William Muluya’s men pay a visit to Kakamega Homeboyz. Homeboyz have been brought back down to earth since their heady walloping of Bandari three weeks ago. Since then, under stand-in coach and player Allan Wanga, they are yet to taste victory and it will not be any easier against Sharks. Posta Rangers might still not understand how they are bottom of the league with the calibre of players they have in their ranks. Those are lingering questions they can only answer on the pitch starting with today’s home duel with high-flying Nzoia.