Love is in the air.
Its palpable. And you could almost stroke it as we approach Valentines Day.
This is a day that has come to be associated with sugar and spice and all
things nice. It is a day when flowers and chocolate flow with abandon. But this has not
always been the state of affairs. The year is 1929 when gang warfare ruled the
streets of Chicago and where one of the worst massacres took place on
Valentine’s Day. Thirty years earlier, Alphonse Gabriel Capone was born in
Brooklyn, New York to poor immigrant parents. His father was a barber and his
mother a seamstress. There was nothing in his childhood or family life that
could have predicted his trajectory and rise to infamy. But as he grew, he went
on to become the most infamous gangster in American history. He became Al
Capone. He had a
multi-million-dollar operation in bootlegging, prostitution and gambling. He dominated
the organised crime space of the time, and was responsible for many brutal acts
of violence, mainly against other gangsters. The most famous occurred in 1929,
where he ordered the assassination of his rivals. His hitmen approached members
and associates of Chicago’s North side gang who were gathered at Lincoln Park
garage on the morning of Valentine’s Day. They were made to line up against the
wall and shot by four unknown assailants posing as the police. This incident
has since been known as St Valentine’s Day Massacre. But back to the
chocolates and flowers. Have you ever pondered how these two commodities
symbolise one day of the year globally? How millions of strangers without a
system of structured central command, spontaneously coordinate themselves to
ensure your girlfriend gets the chocolates and flowers, even in the remotest
parts of the world, where neither roses nor cocoa beans are grown? To understand this
phenomenon, let us travel back in time to 1973. During this year, the price of
oil skyrocketed. And being the rational human beings we are, it made sense for
us to economise. Oil has many uses ranging from jet fuel, to manufacturing toys
and clothes, and growing flowers. So as a consumer, due to the high prices, you
employ your reasoning and cut back on your consumption of oil-based or
oil-driven products and services. You make a deliberate decision on which ones
you will maintain or forego. Contrary to popular
belief, the magic bullet that enables you to make that decision is not your
brain. It is a price. A price is a signal that is wrapped up in an incentive,
positive or negative.  Prices act as signals to indicate scarcity. In
economic speak, this is known as the scarcity principle. When a good or service
is in limited supply but coupled with a high demand, it results in a mismatch
between the desired supply and demand. Hence the price of the scarce good rises
until an equilibrium is reached between supply and demand. When the price of oil
increased in 1973, most roses in America were grown in greenhouses in the
States of New Jersey and Pennsylvania. Resultantly, the cost of operating and
heating the greenhouses to maintain the right temperature to grow roses
dramatically rose. The rose flower growers passed on the costs of growing roses
to consumers. It, therefore, became very expensive for Valentine lovers to buy
roses during that year. The message to consumers from this price signal was to
find substitutes for Valentine gifts. So many boyfriends opted for
chocolates. And just like that,
the cocoa bean farmer in Ghana was smiling all the way to the bank because
there was an upsurge demand for his cocoa beans. Where there was sadness from
rose growers in the Western Hemisphere, there was celebration from cocoa bean
growers in Western Africa. But the growers of the
greenhouse roses were not happy with this substitution. They wanted back in the
game because this was a profitable business. So rather than moan the loss of
their income, they figured there must be a way to still sell roses at
affordable prices. All they needed to do was to find a natural substitute for heating
their greenhouses. Hence, they contracted farmers in Kenya and Ecuador to grow
roses naturally. The Kenyan farmer did not need to know the genesis of scarce
oil. All he perceived is that growing roses fetched him a higher price than
growing coffee. So he put his energies in growing roses and abandoned coffee.
The greenhouse rose flower growers also developed a global infrastructure that
facilitated the delivery of the Kenyan and Ecuadorian flowers across the world. Ultimately, the
decision by the Kenyan and Ecuadorian farmer to grow roses under natural
conditions freed up more of the scarce oil to manufacture the jet fuel. The
market had just spontaneously reallocated resources from low value uses of oil
to high value uses of oil without a central command. This meant producing most
value from our limited resources. As Vernon Smith, a
Nobel Prize winner in Economics, once said, the pricing system is a scientific
mystery. Its deep, fundamental and inspiring as that of the expanding universe
or the forces that bind matter. In a nutshell, this is
the mystery of the invisible hand. It illustrates how free market dynamics make
things happen for the greater good of society. Individuals actin in their own
self-interest, compete for scarce resources. This competition causes resources
to be used in the most efficient and effective way, thus creating value and
wealth for the individual and the whole economy. So the next time your
government tells you they will buy a bag of maize for so many shillings, or
they will reduce your parking fee by so many shillings, or when your politician
seeking your vote tells you he will give you freebies of education, health and
all things nice, stop and ponder; fool me once, shame on you; fool me twice,
shame on me.  Valentine's Day is the poet's
holiday - Ted
Kooser 