Kenya’s Asiya Mohamed and Elizabeth Njoki are happy with the experience gained despite falling 1-6, 0-6 to Emmanuel Morch of France and South Africa’s Mariska Venter in the women’s doubles of the Nairobi Open tournament yesterday. Asiya and Njoki said: “The match was fine. It was also a learning curve because we’ve played against Morch who’s number 28 in the world and Mariska, who is ranked 45.” The two Kenyans said the experienced gained will go a long way in boosting their confidence as they prepare for the World Cup qualifiers that kick off today. “ Their techniques and skills were way above us. Sometimes we thought we’d get the ball only to lose it. We were definitely not their match. But we’ve learnt a lot on top spins and communication when playing as a pair,” they added. Commenting on their readiness for the qualifiers, Asiya said: “Right now, I feel confident. I should be able to beat any opponent going forward. Njoki on her part said: “ I’m going to keep my eyes on the ball and ensure I concentrate throughout the match.” In the men’s doubles final, Wasiu Yusuf and Alex Adawale of Nigeria were crowned champions after their opponents Evans Maripa of South Africa and Emmanuel Temba of Tanzania retired from the match in the second set. The Nigerians had won the first set 6-2 and were leading 4-1 in the second set before the match was halted. Elsewhere, France’s Emmanuel Morch clinched another title after winning the women’s singles 7-6 (8),6-4 against Mariska Venter of South Africa in the final. Speaking after the match, she said: “It was a really difficult match. She’s an amazing player and a friend so it was quite intense. In the first set, we were both nervous and I had a couple of double faults. I was actually lucky to have beaten her by one point. In the second set, I did very well and won.” Morch’s coach Jean De Saintilian congratulated both players for an amazing match. “Both players did very well. They played highly and showed quality. There were double faults from both sides but it’s because of the pressure.” In the men’s singles, Evans Maripa overcame Alex Adewale of Nigeria, winning 6-1,6-2 in the final. The title is the first in eight months in external tournaments for the South African, who is ranked first in Africa. On his side, Adewale boasted of having reached the final but admitted having made a few mistakes. “ I’m happy because I lost to a top player who’s ranked 15 in the world. Honestly, anytime I lost a point, I’d get angry at myself. That made me lose my concentration. In the qualifiers, I’m hoping to make it.” In the men’s consolation match played by the tournament’s round one losers, Kenya’s Peter Munuve lost 0-6,4-6 to Novatus Emmanuel Temba of Tanzania in the final. The Kenyan top seed succumbed to an injury during the clash. In the women’s category, Kenya’s Rahel Akoth Alar beat Bridget Nartey of Ghana 6-4,4-6, 6-2.