Kenya Premier League side Kakamega Homeboyz have embarked on a vigorous search for a tactician a few days after sacking Ugandan Paul Nkata over match fixing allegations. Club chairman Cleophas Shimanyula said this time round the team has no intention of hiring someone from outside the country and so he will concentrate his search within the borders Speaking at Bukhungu Stadium shortly after Homeboyz redeemed themselves by spanking coastal outfit, Bandari FC 4-0 in the Kenya Premier League match, Shimanyula said they hope to unveil a new coach in a few weeks time. “I regret what happened with our former coach and from this experience, we at Kakamega Homeboyz want to lead from the front in fighting this vice of matching fixing through betting which is threatening the future of Kenyan football,” he noted. “I want to call upon the Football Kenya Federation to come up with a clear policy that will guide our teams against this vice that is slowly finding its way in our local football and threatening to spoil the fast-growing industry. The federation should also ban such coaches as Nkata from coaching any team in this country,” Shimanyula warned. He further revealed that he has engaged both Kenyan and Ugandan authorities to ensure Nkata and his accomplices are arrested in order to face criminal charges. “With the kind of investment we are pumped into the team, we can’t allow somebody who is selfish and greedy to come and taint the image of the club,” he added. He, however, stated that he had forgiven all the team players who were involved in the racket save for George Mandela who he allegedly said was the mastermind in coercing team-mates into the deal by distributing the money. “Right now, the league is almost midway and we have forgiven those players we suspected after they apologised and expressed remorsefulness,” added Shimanyula. “I, however, challenge them to give us the best results as I believe with the kind of performance against Bandari, we can compete for major titles.” Reached for comment, Kakamega Central OCPD Joseph Chebii revealed that Homeboyz had recorded a statement and their case is with the DCI office awaiting more evidence from the team.