Religious leaders in Mombasa have decried increased cases of minors engaging in “indecent activities” at the beach. The minors, most of whom are high school students, are also said to indulge in chewing muguka, taking other stimulants and drinking alcohol. Kilifi South Pastors Fellowship chairman Lawrence Chai said tough interventions are needed to curb immoral behaviour, and he called for a mality police department to monitor youths.. He said police only patrol the Jomo Kenyatta public beach, ignoring lkilometres of other beaches in Mtwapa and Kikambala, which the youths have turned into play zones. “The youth are our future leaders and it is our responsibility to guide them, even if it means being hard on them to make them better people tomorrow,” Chai said in Mtwapa. He said the indecent activities take place in broad daylight and with the knowledge of adults who turn a blind eye. Reached for comment, Nacada Coast regional coordinator George Karisa said the law prohibits the selling of alcohol to minors, and called on community leaders to work with the anti-drugs body and police to apprehend those selling alcohol to minors. He said community and religious leaders should become rality police role and assist law enforcement by providing specific information that can be acted on. promote morality Speaking separately, Mombasa Catholic Archdiocese Vicar General Fr Willybard Lagho, however, said morality police may not work since it has failed in other countries. He said a lot needs to be done to rescue the younger generation fself-destruction. “We are involved in rescuing women and girls in distress and the situation is alarming. More needs to be done to “eradicate both the pull and push factors that lead young people to substance abuse and prostitution.” He said religious institutions need to come up with youth-tailored programmes to promote morality and family values. “As religious leaders, we should not stop at sermons, we need to engage young people at their level regarding pertinent issues,” he said. During International Condom Day at Pwani University on February 13, the National Aids Control Council announced that youths between 15-24 years contribute the most new HIV-Aids infections in the country. Last year, women in Kilifi and Mombasa counties said Muguka should be banned to save marriages, saying the popular stimulant makes men who chew it impotent. A lobby group in Kilifi asked the county assembly to ban the sale and chewing of muguka (a type of miraa). Kilifi Mums said the stimulant threatens marriages as men who chew it are unable to have sex. A motion banning the importation of muguka to Mombasa county has been tabled in the assembly. The Mombasa Health committee tabled a report detailing harmful effects of muguka, including causing cancer and impotence. The motion wzs drafted by nominated MCA Fatma Kushe. Kilifi Mums said on Saturday muguka is turning schoolchildren into thieves. “Boys resort to stealing to get money to buy it,” Kibibi Ali, the group’s chairwoman, said.