Meru Senator Mithika Linturi has been sued by his stepson in a property dispute over the Meru Senate office building, which he claims to own. Linturi and his estranged wife Maryanne Kitany are in the middle of another vicious property dispute that has now seems to have trickled down to their children. Kitany’s son has also sued his stepsister over the property he alleges they unlawfully put a legal charge of Sh7.2 million without his knowledge. Arnold Kipkirui accuses Linturi and Brenda, among others, of taking loans using the building without his consent as a co-director. They jointly own Linkit Limited with the stepsister, Brenda Mithika.  He wants them barred from entering into any further contract of lending or borrowing advances using the property. Read: Linturi barred from abusing, stalking wife at Runda home In an affidavit, Kipkirui says  the credit facility canvassed among Linturi’s company Atticon, Brenda, and Family Bank is a product of fraud, forgeries and calculated criminal action on their part. “I never executed any document whatsoever relating to the lending by Family Bank to Atticon or to charge the company’s property to the bank,” Kipkirui says. He said he was not in Kenya at the time they took the disputed loan and legal charge instruments. “My rights to protection of property rights under Article 40 of the Constitution have been violated,” the court documents read. Kipkirui says Family Bank has never requested him to deliver titles to the properties for any purpose whatsoever, “let alone to charge the same to benefit strangers such as Linturi”. “The company and I have suffered loss of user, freedom to sell transfer, alienate, develop or deal with the property to profit him,” he said. He says the senator wrongfully obtained title to the property with intent to use it for unauthorised purposes. He also alleges they entered into a contract of guarantee on his behalf without his knowledge, permission and or authority. Read: Court urged not to encourage adultery in Linturi divorce case Click here for
the latest political news