A couple yesterday lost a bid to repossess their matrimonial home after the Court of Appeal dismissed their application for lack of merit. Peter Mburu and Kanyiva Echaria  also wanted to be awarded Sh8 million in damages. They had appealed the High Court decision that awarded Mburu’s ex-wife Priscilla Njeri the home in Tigoni, Limuru. Njeri and Mburu divorced in 1997. Mburu told judges Philip Waki, Gatembu Kairu and Otieno Odek that he was the owner of the land on which the home was built. He said the home belonged to him and Kanyiva. On May 3, 1997, Njeri evicted Mburu and Kanyiva from their home and “converted their household items to her own use.” On April 25, 2000, the couple filed suit against Njeri claiming damages amounting to  Sh8,132,494. See also: Linturi’s wife free to access Runda home The money was to be compensation for personal effects and household goods that Njeri to her use. They asked the court to order Njeri to surrender possession of the home and their household items. They sought a declaration that Njeri committed trespass to both the land and chattels. They prayed for profits of Sh100,000 per month from May 3, 1997, to the date of delivery of the household items and their property. On 12 March 2001, Njeri denied that Mburu and Kanyiva were living on the property and carrying out any farming activities on the land. She said she lawfully removed Mburu and Kanyiva from her “Portion B” property. “There was no use of force than was necessary to obtain entry and drive out the couple who were trespassers,” Njeri said. She denied converting the couple’s household goods to her use. “They did not suffer any loss or damages as claimed,” Njeri said. The judges they were unable to find “any error in the trial court’s judgment.” “The upshot is that we find this appeal has no merit and is hereby dismissed. We have considered the above statement by the trial court and considered it in the context of the ratio decided in the court’s judgment,” the ruling says. Related: Linturi barred from abusing, stalking wife at Runda home Click here for the latest political news