A majority of Kajiado residents and leaders are disappointed by Governor Joseph Lenku's administration for failing to prepare a stadium for this year’s Madaraka Day celebrations. On Monday, a statement from State House said the celebrations will now be moved to Narok as no work has begun on a proposed stadium in Kajiado. Some leaders of Kajiado on Tuesday blamed the county for the slow works. But Lenku, in his defence, said it is not the role of the counties to organise and fund national day celebrations. He said that is the duty of the Ministry of Interior. The Governor said the space identified in Kajiado as the possible venue for national day celebration had never been developed before and is only an old football pitch with grown bushes. Details of how the idea of hosting the national day was sealed between the Presidency and Kajiado leadership are unclear. Read: Kajiado not ready to host Madaraka Day fete, chance passed to Narok Kajiado Central MP Elijah Memusi said, "It is disappointing. We had all the time from last year to prepare for the event but Governor Lenku failed the people of Kajiado.” Kajiado South MP Katoo ole Metito said; “I'm sure the President meant well by proposing Kajiado county to host Madaraka Day celebrations.” Metito commended the President for his order to have the Sh100 million allocated for the building of Kajiado stadium in Ildamat Ward to be given to Narok. Kajiado Speaker Johnson Osoi termed the decision by State House “unfortunate and heartbreaking.” He asked the President to give the people of Kajiado an opportunity to host another national holiday in the near future. On Monday, Interior CS Fred Matiang’i led the national celebrations committee to State House for a meeting with the President Uhuru to brief him on the preparedness of Kajiado. The Head of State was told the delay in construction work will make it difficult for the event to be held in Kajiado. Kajiado town suffers a serious shortage of fresh water, poor infrastructure and even the road leading to the proposed stadium site is in a pathetic situation. The business community had held three major meetings with top county officials regarding the Madaraka Day celebrations set for June 1. Hotelier Maina Kibuchi told the Star on Tuesday traders had been asked to paint their buildings ahead of the big day. Click here for the latest political news