With the decline of newspaper print journalism and the rise of online platforms to disseminate news, journalism has gone through a huge amount of change over the last two decades. According to Pew Research, the circulation of major print newspapers has dropped by more than 25 per cent, major TV channels have lost more than 52 per cent of their evening prime time news viewers. Pew Research also shows that 61 per cent of customers who have stopped paying for a daily newspaper did so because they believed the stories were shallow. An estimated 71 per cent of adults now get their news from social media channels: Facebook, Twitter, WhatsApp and Instagram. Moreover, traditional media channels have also come under incessant assault, especially from politicians. Single-handedly, US President Donald Trump has lampooned American and international news organisations and popularised the use of the term ‘Fake News’ to discredit the work of journalists. In East Africa, governments have been prickly, somewhat hypersensitive about how local issues are covered. Such ‘sensitive issues’ include the conduct of elections, human rights, corruption, public spending, relations with China and debt. Hence, journalists and media houses have run afoul of the government over their reporting. Whenever they have been aggrieved, governments have tried to hurt media houses financially. Some journalists have also played fast and loose with facts. In some cases, the ethics and integrity of the profession have been jettisoned. Revelations of the use of unethical and reprehensible methods for news gathering such as phone hacking, bribing sources, including police and public officials, has not helped to inspire confidence in the craft and business of journalism. Old business models must give way to new ones. The era of the advertising model that sustained media houses is gone. Consumers no longer have to adapt to the news media. For example, I don’t have to be home to watch the 9pm news. I don’t have to read the morning paper. Media houses have to fit the habits of the consumer. The digital environment has transformed print-based one-way model of newspaper journalism. Readers want more than just news gathering and reporting. Even fact checking is not enough. Readers expect depth, analysis, interpretation and engagement across different formats and through different platforms. We have to re-imagine journalism and media business. And it must start with how we educate the next generation of journalists. Training journalists in the 21st Century must go beyond the basics of reporting and writing, beyond . video and text-based journalism. Virtual reality and augmented storytelling have ushered in the era of immersive journalism. New media tools are enhancing journalism. These tools will begin to evolve the field of journalism as a whole, causing journalists to work more effectively, collaboratively and interactively. And new business models must emerge. The media, just like the university, is at the heart of what I call truth or fact-producing infrastructure. The waning appeal of newspapers in the digital age does not signal the decline of journalism. It is a chance to re-imagine journalism. Vice Provost of Aga Khan University