A man whose wife was accidentally killed by police in Dandora in 2012 has begged the Director of Public Prosecutions to help him get justice. His plea follows a Makadara court ruling that four Buruburu police officers be set free. They had been interdicted following the deaths of two people when police fired in the air to control a crowd. The court ruled that the prosecution did not prove its case. Kephas Watena, widower of Olpha Kemunto, asked DPP Noordin Haji to recall the file and the inquest ruling, saying the magistrate was wrong to set the officers free. “I plead with the DPP to go through our file and call a fresh hearing, call the investigating officer and the ballistic officer who testifiedt,” he told the Star on Wednesday. He said his wife was the family breadwinner and it has been hard for him to raise their two children alone. Principal magistrate Meresia Opondo closed the inquest that started in 2013 against officers IP Dominic Kamunda, PC Jacob Kinyua, PC Daniel Odoyo and PC Patrick Ndegwa. They were accused of shooting dead two people and injuring three three children while chasing a murder suspect. “I find this inquest file be closed as provided under Section 387 of the CPC. The families of the deceased are at liberty to file for loss in the appropriate court,” Opondo ruled. Watena had told court that his wife Kemunto died from a bullet wound from a gun belonging to an officer identified as Mokaya from Buruburu police station. The officers defended themselves saying that in April 2012, they received information a murder suspect had been spotted in the area. They said they were armed. They were led to a place where a woman was selling chang’aa. They arrested her and the murder suspect. A crowd wanted them to release the suspect so they could lynch him, they said. “We were met by around 500 hostile people throwing stones at us, hence, I called for reinforcement and the officers shot in the air. We were also injured during the scuffle,” Kamunda told court. The magistrate said the death of the deceased was cause by the shootings by the police officers. She said, however, that the shooting was to quell the disturbance, not murder anyone. The officers therefore cannot be held criminally liable for murdering the two persons, she said. The postmortem report said the two people died as a result of gunshot wounds. “The finding has purely been based on the provisions of the law, evidence and facts presented.The officers were interdicted from duty without proper investigations being carried out to determine the happenings,” the magistrate ruled.