Senators are investigating the Isiolo government over an irregular Sh443 million health deal with a non-governmental organisation. The Mohamed Kuti-led county single-sourced Living Good Limited and opened a bank account for the project contrary to the law. Living Good deals is involved in community health. The deal was aimed at strengthening community health services. The investigation is result of a petition filed last October with the Senate Health Committee by eight residents, through Senator Fatuma Dullo. The petitioners said the deal was irregular and could lead to loss of funds. Yesterday, the lawmakers grilled the NGO’s country director Thomas Onyango and his deputy Ruth Ngechu. The county reached out to Living Good Limited for a partnership to improve health services, Onyango told the committee chaired by Trans Nzoia Senator Michael Mbito. “This was going to be an ambitious programme where we targeted poor residents who don’t get the service. We were going to pay the voluntary community health workers, train them and ensure the service was brought closer to the people,” he said. Treasury CS Henry Rotich stopped the project, citing violations of the Public Finance Management Act, 2012, which guides public-private partnerships. Kisumu Senator Fred Outa questioned why the organisation was single-sourced and why it agreed to enter into a joint venture with the county without involving the National Treasury. “There is more than meets the eye. Public money was going to be in the hands of a private entity that is not accountable to anybody,” he said. Outa said a provision in the MoU that the two entities would open a special purpose account where the project cash would be deposited was sinister. “Unless there are some things we are not being told, I don’t understand why it is only in Isiolo that the account was to be opened and not others. Were they planning to siphon public money?” he asked. Besides Isiolo, Living Good operates in Busia, Kisii, Kakamega, Kisumu and Nakuru.