Teachers in Kyuso, Kitui, have threatened to take to the streets to protest against a TSC officer they accuse of extortion. Kenya National Union of Teachers yesterday said Eugene Makunyi should be transferred because he is unfriendly. Knut chairperson for Kyuso branch Agnes Kambua said Makunyi was often out of his office and preferred to operate at night. But Makunyi denied the claims and accused the teachers of trying to micromanage his office. Kambua last month wrote to Kitui county TSC director Fredrick Ng’ang’a demanding that Makunyi be transferred by February 1. Ng’ang’a said they were investigating the allegations. “Knut presented mere allegations that were not backed by evidence. We need facts to act and that is why I’m investigating,” Ng’ang’a said. Kambua said teachers were mulling holding demonstrations after their deadline lapsed. She said their letter might have been ignored. “The only option is to have teachers on the streets of Kyuso town to publicly denounce Makunyi,” Kambua said. She said planning for the demonstrations had begun. “Our grievances range from poor working relationship, wanting quality of education, poor administration, corruption and lack of leadership.” Makunyi is the TSC officer in charge of Kyuso, Mumoni, Tseikuru and Thangichu subcounties. “We demand that the officer be transferred immediately,”Kambua said in her letter to Ng’ang’a. The letter is dated January 22. Ng’ang’a asked the teachers to wait for the outcome of the investigations. “We have even deliberated the matter on phone with Knut officials and reached an agreement. I don’t know how demonstrations have come,” Ng’ang’a said. Makunyi dismissed the allegations. “I have my boss whom I report to. I’m not answerable to the teachers’ union or any other official in Kyuso,” Makunyi said. He said the teachers were not happy with him because of postings he did. He said the union wants him to arbitrarily move teachers from old schools to new schools. “The issue of extortion came up after I posted new teachers to various schools. The union claims the postings were influenced by bribes,” Makunyi said. He said he was ready to be transferred if his bosses see fit.