A push by Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria to remove Aden Duale as National Assembly Majority leader has triggered sharp reactions in Jubilee. Yesterday Jubilee MPs dismissed Kuria’s bid to have Duale stripped of his powerful position. The lawmakers who spoke to the Star accused Kuria of trying to trigger an implosion in Jubilee. “Kuria appears to be having a personal issue with Duale. The Jubilee party has no issue at all with its leadership in the National Assembly,” Embakasi North MP James Gakuya said. Gakuya said Kuria should find a way to address his problems within the party structures instead of making “outrageous statements,” that threaten internal unity. “At a time when we are enjoying calm, courtesy of the handshake, we don’t want to raise political temperatures again. Kuria knows what to do when he has a problem with any Jubilee member,” Gakuya said. Read: Kuria accuses Duale of blocking his bills in Parliament While speaking on Citizen TV on Wednesday night, Kuria claimed that Jubilee MPs were unhappy with Duale’s leadership style. Kuria said the lawmakers dissatisfied with Duale’s leadership in the National Assembly want to kick him out as Leader of the Majority. “That is not just my position but a position shared by many members of Jubilee,” Kuria said when asked abut removing Duale. He went on, “We are very frustrated, everyone in Jubilee and Nasa are very frustrated with Aden Duale.” Asked why the MPs were unhappy with Duale, Kuria said the Garissa Township MP takes a big chunk of his contribution on the floor of the House “making jokes.” Kuria said he would push for Duale’s removal and then easily replace him in an election by Jubilee MPs. “Let him remove me from committees because that is his prerogative and then allow members to have a say on who will be their leader of majority,” Kuria said. But Endebes MP Robert Pukose dared Kuria to bring forth the motion which he said will be rejected. “Let him (Kuria) bring a motion to impeach Duale. I can assure you it will not see the light of day. I think he was drunk but I want dare him to bring the motion,” the MP said.. He accused the Gatundu South MP of being inconsistent in attending to House businesses. “How long does Kuria sit in a plenary or committee of the whole house? He is never there and there is nothing he can tell us. We have not discussed anything to do with removal of Duale and we don’t have any problem with him,” he said. Kimilili MP Didmus Barasa said a motion to remove the leader of majority must meet the highest threshold set based on evidence and facts. Read: No plans to axe Kuria from House committees - Tuju “Parliament cannot act as a lynch mob for personal interests. The House makes its decision based on merit and not innuendoes and rumours,” Barasa said in a clear signal that Kuria’s bid would be unlikely to succeed. MPs Francis Waititu(Juja), Shadrak Mose(Kitutu Masaba), Gathoni Wamchomba (Kiambu) and Laikipia’s Catherine Waruguru objected to the removal bid. Kuria also accused Duale of frustrating most of his private bills by ensuring they do not get to the floor of the House. Kuria also reiterated his earlier claims that Duale is plotting to have him de-whipped from both the Transport and Budget committees. “None of my legislative proposals has ever been brought to the House since 2014. From NGO’s Reform Bill to the Coffee Bill, the Interest Rates Bill and now the one he has sworn to defeat — Select Committee to support Matiang’i and his committee,” Kuria said. He accused Duale of being arrogant and full of himself, adding that he is not fit to be the Leader of the Majority. However Jubilee dismissed claims by Kuria that there was a plot to have him removed from House committees. The party has no plans to remove anyone from parliamentary committees, secretary general Raphael Tuju and National Assembly Majority whip Benjamin Washiali said on Wednesday. Tuju said any decision to remove a member from a committee must first come as a recommendation from the party’s disciplinary committee. He admitted, however, that the committee has a number of complaints from some members. Click here for
the latest political news