Striking doctors in Homa Bay want the police to investigate people allegedly threatening and intimidating them. The doctors said “goons” have been threatening them since Monday when the strike started. They said those behind the threats warned that they will beat them if the strike continues. The more than 60 doctors went on strike after the county government allegedly failed to address their grievances. They had issued a five-day strike notice. The medics are protesting against constant delay of salaries and poor working conditions. More than 650 nurses in the county are also in strike. Nyanza branch Kenya Medical Practitioners, Pharmacists and Dentists’ Union officials Kevin Osuri (chairman) and Lameck Omweri (secretary general) on Wednesday said the “goons” claim doctors portray the Homa Bay government in bad light. They spoke in Homa Bay town. Osuri said they have recorded a statement at Homa Bay police station. “We appeal to police to look into this matter and bring to book those behind the intimidations,” Osuri said. Omweri said: “Today [Wednesday], they threatened to beat us and thwarted our meeting at the Homa Bay Referral Hospital.” Liaison official Owino Dulo said they also work under poor conditions. “The Homa Bay government has refused to honour the 2017 CBA we signed. Our employer pays us when they feel like it,” Dulo said. Dulo said they have been waiting for the county government to call for dialogue. “We’ve have been available for dialogue but nobody has met us.” He said there is a shortage of doctors in the county as some have quit to look for jobs elsewhere. “There is insufficient equipment in several hospitals and we often advise patients to buy their own.” A group of religious leaders, under the umbrella of Homa Bay County Bishops and Pastors Pentecostal Churches Unity, want Governor Cyprian Awiti to intervene and end the strike. Chairman Elijah Kwanya urged Awiti to meet the striking health officers and resolve the matter amicably. “Patients are in agony and poverty makes most patients to avoid private hospitals,” Kwanya said. Health executive Richard Muga said the county government is working on ways to solve the problem. “We will meet and iron out the issues with the medics,” Muga said.