Leaders Wazito will have their promotion credentials severely tested this afternoon when they play unbeaten Nairobi Stima at Karuturi grounds as the National Super League enters it’s 17th round. Wazito have gathered 38 points which have consequently seen them open a three-point gap between them and second-placed Ushuru and their free scoring form and their quest to return to the top flight will be put to check by the power men who are third with 34 points. Wazito’s trio of Stephen Owusu, Washington Munene and Victor Ndinya will be facing their former employers and coach Mohammed Mchulla is expected to parade them considering they know one or two things about their former employer. Second-placed Ushuru will be on a mission to move joint top when they lock horns with 11th ranked Modern Coast Rangers at Camp Toyoyo. Ushuru are three points shy of the league leaders and will bank on Stima to electrocute Wazito and at the same time reap maximum points to achieve their target. Promotion-chasing and fourth-placed FC Talanta will be looking to bounce back to their winning ways when they play a struggling Kibera Black Stars in one of three matches planned for Camp Toyoyo. Talanta were held by Migori Youth in a all draw last weekend and will be eyeing to regain their feet in a bid to keep close tabs with the both Ushuru and Wazito. Another promotion chasing outfit Kisumu All Stars will also be seeking redemption when they host league newbies Fortune Sacco at Moi Stadium, Kisumu. All Stars, who are fifth on the log with 30 points, lost 2-1 to Kenya Police in their previous match and will be hoping to capitalise on home comfort to seal the three points against the visitors who are 10th with 22 points. A revitalised Shabana will be out to disarm Administration Police at Hope Centre and breath life into their dwindling promotion hopes. Shabana have amassed 25 points and are placed fifth on the log while the paramilitary side are ranked eighth with 24 points. Former Kenyan Premier League side, Nairobi City Stars will play neighbours and bottom-placed Kangemi All Stars as they seek to end their poor run. City Stars lie 17th with 11 points while their opponents have five points. In other matches lined for the day, Coast Stima will host Kenya Police at Mbaraki Stadium while the struggling pair of St. Joseph Youth and Migori Youth will clash at Afraha Stadium. St Joseph have gathered 15 points and sit 15th while Migori are second from bottom with nine points. Debutants Eldoret Youth will tackle Thika United at home while Bidco United will entertain Green Commandos at the Thika Sub-County Stadium.