A Kiambu court will today decide whether police should continue detaining a taxi driver linked with the murder of switch board operator Midred Odira for three more weeks. The prosecution told the court that investigators needed more time since the 14 days earlier granted to them expired before their work was completed. Suspect David Junga Ochieng was brought before chief magistrate Patricia Gichohi by detectives from DCI office Kasarani. The court further heard that detectives are still waiting for DNA results from government chemist. Detectives said the Mildred was last seen with Ochieng. The 32-year-old woman worked with Foresight Company based at the Nation Centre in Nairobi. She left her house in Kariobangi South for treatment earlier this month. The family said she was diabetic and hypertensive. Preliminary investigations indicated that security guards had called a taxi to take her to Ruaraka’s Uhai Neema Hospital after she fell ill at night, but she never made it to the facility. The taxi driver is said to have told the family that he left Mildred at Ruaraka Uhai Neema Hospital. But investigators found that the driver signed in at the hospital’s gates at 4:30am and signed out at 5:57am. This contradicted the 20-minute duration the driver had given to her family. Read: Mildred left for hospital only to turn up in morgue Detectives said CCTV footage shows the driver entering and shortly exiting without dropping anyone. Mildred was last seen at the office at Nation Centre on a Thursday and she had taken Friday off to seek treatment. Since her blood pressure was too high, the hospital told her to return that Monday for more tests. Government pathologist Johansen Oduor earlier said Mildred died of injury inflicted by a blunt object, possibly a hammer, which left a two-centimetre gash on her forehead. Her body was dusty. One leg was broken and intestines protruded from her belly. A close examination showed a wound on the neck and an injury on the head. Her sister said they found out she was not home after her(Odira’s) son went to her house on Tuesday morning at a time he should have been in school. Mildred’s body was found at City Mortuary after she had gone missing since January 29. Police found it by the roadside where they believed it was dumped after her murder took place elsewhere. Her brother, Carrington Ogweno, claimed there were threats to his life. He told reporters earlier this month that two men followed him to his house on a motorbike and warned him against pursuing his sister’s case or he would “end up like her.” “I’m not moved. If Mildred case will take me down then let them come and kill me but the truth will stand,” he had said. The incident was reported to Kasarani police station were the taxi operator is being held. Read: Mildred was murdered, body dumped along Thika Road Click here for the latest political news   