A former primary school teacher has been jailed for 15-years for defiling three pupils, between March and June 2010. Makadara Law Courts Senior Principal Magistrate Angelo Kithinji found Moby Odayo guilty of three counts of defilement in a school in Mathare where he was a teacher. In his ruling last Friday, Kithinji said the prosecution has proved beyond reasonable doubt that the three were defiled by the accused. “Bearing in mind the health status of the accused and the old age, I sentence you to 15 years in prison for each count to be served concurrently,” the Magistrate ruled. The retired teacher would lure orphaned pupils to his house under the pretext of assisting them get sponsors. He would then use threats or promises to buy their silence. In March 17, 2010, at Mathare North, area one, the former teacher left school with a girl aged 14, claiming he was taking her to meet the sponsor but he instead took her to his house. Odayo had asked the pupil whom he had singled out as an orphan to come with a dress under her school uniform. The girl went to the location where she was to meet the accused after school. Odayo took the girl to his house that he claimed belonged to his brother as they waited for the sponsor. “After a long wait, she suggested that she go to school and return later but realised the door was locked,” read the statement. The accused then grabbed her, took her to bed and stuffed her mouth with clothes to silence her before he raped her. The accused is reported to have warned her against reporting, but months later, she told a female teacher at school. She said she had gotten pregnant as a result but she aborted to continue with her studies. Another pupil reported that on June 11, 2010, her former teacher Odayo, asked her and two other girls not to put on their uniforms to school for the remedial classes the next day. The following day, the accused asked her and one of the two girls to go to his house where he promised to introduce them to an organisation that helps orphans. The two pupils found their teacher’s son in the house. The teacher sent his son and the other girl to the shop. The accused used the opportunity to defile the 14-year old for about 30 minutes before a knock at the door. The accused released the two girls at around 7pm warning them to say they were at African Christ Organisation. He threatened to stab the girl if she reported the crime and promised her new shoes in return for silence. Another complainant fell prey to the accused when she sought help finding her way back to school from a sports event at Moi Forces Academy as she was new in the area. “The teacher who taught her Mathematics and English instead took her to his house which he claimed was his brother’s. He dragged her into the houses where he defiled her. He put sponge into her mouth and threatened her with a knife when she attempted to scream. When the accused later released her, she realised that she had blood on her pants and later reported the incident to the head teacher,” detailed the charges. The school head teacher said the issue came to light after a parent complained that their children had returned home very late from school. “I asked another teacher to interrogate the said students who opened up and told us what had happened,” he stated. The now retired teacher who lives in Busia was arrested and taken to Muthaiga police station before the charges were opened against him.