NCEOD Queens from Homa Bay are the new Chapa Dimba na Safaricom Nyanza region champions. Queens beat hosts Manyatta United 3-0 at the Moi stadium, Kisumu, to lift the title on Sunday. The goals were scored by Yvonne Ogada, Susan Ogindi and Asher Achieng. Danger girl Yvonne continued from where she left on Saturday in the semifinals by scoring her seventh goal of the regional tournament. The lively goal poacher received a cross from Emelda Akoth from the right wing and tapped home from close range in the 32nd minute, leaving Manyatta defense flat-footed. The home side's hard fight for an equalizer, buoyed by big home support, failed to materialize as the NCEOD defence stood firm. Christine Atieno came close in the 39th minute but NCEOD goalkeeper Dodusi Athma parried the shot for a fruitless corner. Yvonne, who was tightly marked, broke loose in the 42nd minute but her shot veered off target with Manyatta keeper Carolyne Ruffa well beaten. The game went into the breather with the visitors firmly in control. Queens started the second half with the same tempo, taking just six minutes to double their advantage. Susan Ongidi’s harmless cross was parried into the net by Manyatta's under pressure custodian Athma. The home side was pegged into its own half with little action in the opposing goal for the better part of the second half before Asher Achieng put the icing on the cake for the visitors with the third goal in the 85th minute. Manyatta reached the final by thrashing Kisii 6-0 in the semis on Saturday while Queens hammered Mogiori Education Center 7-0. Currently, Manyatta United are taking on Nyamira Springs in the boy’s final at the same venue. The game will produce a new champion after defending champions Ombek Red devils were knocked out in the preliminaries. Queens and the winner in the the boy’s final will each receive Sh200,000 and the chance to represent Nyanza in the national finals. Best players scouted by La Liga coaches from various regions will travel to Spain for a training camp. Click here for the latest political news