Award-winning, world-renown Kenyan writer Ngugi wa Thiong’o has urged the government to make Kamirithu Polytechnic a national heritage. Ngugi, now a literature professor at the University of California, Irvine in United States, said the institution is rich in both national and international literature. He started the theatre before he went into exile in 1982. The 81-year-old author urged both the county and national government to consider upgrading the institution. He said, “In the field of literature, Kamirithu is known all over the world. Many renowned writers wish to visit it.” One of his plays, Ngahika Ndeenda (I’ll marry when I want), was acted at the theatre before it was banned by the government. It was among his many plays acted at the Kamirithu open-air theatre. The professor of English and Comparative Literature spoke at St Paul’s University in Kabuku, Limuru, on Tuesday. He was accompanied by his 47-year-old son, Mukoma Ngugi, also a professor, during an interactive lecture moderated by Joyce Nyairo. The lecture was attended by among others SPU vice-chancellor Joseph Galgallo and deputy vice- chancellor in charge of academics Charity Irungu. supports curriculum The author praised the government for introducing a curriculum that embraces Kenyan cultures. “I applaud the government for considering to add ethnic languages as subject in the curriculum.” Ngugi said children should be taught their mother tongues, but added that he was not against foreign languages. Mukoma urged political leaders to support the government in implementing the curriculum. The associate lecturer at Cornell University, also in the US, said only political leaders can scuttle it while campaigning along tribal lines. “Political leaders must support the curriculum. It is about what we do everyday; it is about our society’s learning and enriching our heritage,” Mukoma said. Ngugi’s latest book is a Kikuyu tome titled Kenda Muiyuru (Perfect Nine). His earlier works include The River Between, Weep Not Child, Petals of Blood and Caitani Mutharabaini (Devil on the Cross), among others. The River Between was a set book in secondary schools until 2013. Mukoma has written The Rise of African Novel, Mrs Shaw, Black Star Nairobi, Nairobi Heat among others. The professors interacted with literature students. This, Galgallo said, added value to the young people’s knowledge.