The Annual Elgon Cup two-legged match pitting Kenya Uganda is in doubt following a standoff over the upcoming Rugby Africa elections slated for Saturday in Marrakech, Morocco. The elections will be culmination of three days congress. Kenya Rugby Union chairman Richard Omwela has been fronted by the English-speaking countries for the position of vice-president but Uganda Rugby Union president Andrew Owuor has since announced his candidature. Omwela has been at the executive Committee of Rugby Africa for eight years and is planning for an upgrade of roles by becoming the vice president. An adamant Omwela insists that Uganda have held the position of vice chair seat before, through Paul Sigombe, and it was Kenya’s turn to occupy the seat. “Uganda have held this position before and it was agreed amongst us that this position should go to either Kenya, Zimbabwe or Namibia but we as Anglo-Africans take Owuor’s move as an insult,” said Omwela. Omwela added that if Uganda goes on with their scheme, they will replace them with Zimbabwe and revive the Victoria Cup which was played in the early 2000. “We may as well forget about the Elgon Cup and look at playing Zimbabwe. Let Uganda play their new found friends who are Morooco or Tunisia,” added Omwela. The impasse may see several of Ugandan stars who play in the Kenya Cup including Kabras duo of fullback Phillip Wokorach and skipper Asman Mugerwa as well as Quins’ Aaron Ofoywroth being banned from playing in the country, according to Omwela. Over 30 presidents from the different African rugby federations will attend the first Rugby Africa Summit bringing with them many illustrious names from the world of rugby and sports in general, to participate in three days of debates and exchanges and to celebrate African rugby. The General Assembly will be an opportunity to renew several trusty partnerships, reinforcing the links between Rugby Africa and the South African Rugby Federation (SARU) and the French Rugby Federation (FFR). It will conclude with the presentation of awards to the federations and the election of the new executive bureau of Rugby Africa. Among the anticipated guests are Mr Mustapha Berraf, President of the Association of National Olympic Committees of Africa, Nawel El Moutawakel of the International Olympic Committee, David Carrigy, Head of Development at World Rugby, Bernard Lapsset, former President of the International Rugby Board (IRB), and Bernard Laporte, President of the French Rugby Federation (FFR).