Parliament resumes its sittings on Tuesday afternoon after a two-month recess. The key task of the day will be the appointment of members to the House Business Committee. Those chosen to sit in the powerful committee are Amos Kimunya (Kipipiri), Joyce Emanikor (Turkana County Woman Rep), Shadrack John Mose (Kitutu Masaba) and Kawira Mwangaza (Meru County Woman Rep). Others are Makali Mulu (Kitui Central), Mishi Mboko (Likoni) and Godfrey Osotsi (nominated). A similar motion will be held at the Senate as the Upper House approves senators nominated to serve in the Senate Business Committee. They are Fatuma Dullo, Cleophas Malala, Beatrice Kwamboka, Paul Githiomi Mwangi, Mohamed M. Mahamud, CBS, Christopher Andrew Langat and Ledama Olekina. Read: Bribery claims rock House committees The House will be met with more expectations from the public, including a pending two-thirds gender rule bill. Parliament will be handling its first agenda; examining and passing the budget policy statement for the financial year 2019/2020. Treasury CS Henry Rotich is expected, in the third session, to table the policy statement before the House. According to the constitution, the report has to be presented not later than February 14 every year. The house will also be finalising the report on the recruitment of new IEBC commissioners after the departure of four commissioners. IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati is expected to brief the house on its preparedness in reviewing boundaries and its readiness as far as the 2022 general election is concerned. With the ongoing debate about the likeness of having a referendum next year, Parliament is expected to throw its weight over the matter. Cases of recent abductions and last month's terror attack are also expected to feature on the floor of the House. The resignation of Jubilee Vice Chairman David Murathe is also expected to stir reactions from MPs. Last month, Sirisia MP had suggested that Parliament be dissolved if Murathe's move to bar Deputy President William Ruto from the 2022 election will gain momentum. "We want to know who is sending Murathe to speak nonsense every day. Many MPs are tired of his speech. 85 per cent of us want to go for new elections," he said. More: MP Waluke wants Parliament dissolved, fresh presidential poll Click here for the latest political news.