Five people were on Monday night abducted from Garissa Township and driven away. The identity of the persons who disappeared have not been established yet and their whereabouts is still unknown. Locals suspect he police or al Shabaab militants are involved. County police commander Alfred Angengo was in meeting when contacted. He did not respond. County commissioner Mwangu Meru did not pick calls either. Muslims for Human Rights said the latest case brings to 13 the number of those abducted this year. “In January, three disappeared in Dadaab and five in Ijara,” Muhuri executive director Hassan Abdille said Abdille said the security team in Garissa should provide round the clock protection and ensure the 13 are found and produced. “This needs a holistic intervention. People and citizens have a right to be protected. Where do these people go?” Abdille said at the constituency during a fact-finding mission. Muhuri has prepared a legal aid platform to collect information on human rights violations. The NGO is enlightening the community about their rights, with focus on  enforced disappearances, extrajudicial killings, land injustices and child neglect. Cases of extrajudicial killings are still common Northeastern and the Coast region. Abdille said there have been arbitrary arrests and prolonged pre-trial detentions. “We face challenges in legal representation and these are some of the issues we want to be urgently addressed,” Abdille said. Soon after Garissa University was attacked by terrorists in 2015 killing 147 students, there was a mass swoop that was ;argely condemned. Muhuri rapid response officer Francis Auma said they will cooperate with criminal justice actors on human rights issues. “The new office that we have established will coordinate these cases and ensure speedy trial,” Auma said. Meanwhile, Muhuri gender and women rights officer Topister Juma said cultural practices have contributed gender-based violence. “We want women to be involved in leadership to end these problems,” she said.