Tourism CS Najib Balala yesterday failed to appear before anti-graft detectives for questioning over the controversial award of a Sh100 million contract by his ministry. The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission had summoned the CS to record a statement at Integrity Centre at 9am yesterday. The CS skipped the session and instead wrote to the commission stating that he had scheduled official events that coincided with the summons. “He wrote to us asking if we can reschedule the sitting because he has several events lined up this week. So we will look at his plans and invite him at an appropriate date,” EACC communications officer Yasin Amaro said. Balala spent the day in Kisumu attending a regional tourism stakeholders forum. He landed in the lakeside city on Sunday evening. The commission is investigating the Balala-led Tourism and Wildlife Ministry over the award of Sh100 million tender to the American Society of Travel Agents. ASTA was allegedly single-sourced by the ministry to offer unspecified services during ASTA Expo Conference that was held in Nairobi in February 2017. Read: Sh100m contract: Balala refutes claims homes were raided as EACC issues summon “The commission is conducting investigations into allegations of irregular award of contract to ASTA Kenya for hosting of ASTA 2017 Destination Expo Conference and a further sponsorship of Sh100 million for the conference,” the letter summoning the CS reads. The letter, dated February 13, is signed by director of investigations Abdi Mohamud. Balala was to appear before detectives Francis Wafula and Kimutai Langat. On Friday, the CS rubbished reports the detectives had raided his homes in Mombasa, Kilifi and Nairobi and obtained crucial documents to aid the probe. In a tweet, the CS said, “No raids have taken place at my homes as claimed in the newspaper report, the journalist was aware prior to publishing the same report. My legal team is handling the matter.” Balala said investigations have been ongoing for a while and that his ministry has been been cooperating. Also Read: EACC to quizz Balala over contract to US tour group Click here for the latest political news.