Talented Harambee Stars winger Clifton Miheso has breathed life into his European football career ambition again after completing a move to Clube Olimpico Do Montijo which plies it’s trade in the Portuguese second division league. Miheso launched his European football career in 2015 in a brief stint with Finland-based Vaasan Palloseura before returning to Kenya but his move to Portugal is set to rekindle his ambition of playing in Europe. The widely travelled winger burst in limelight in 2011 after penning a two-year long contract with Thika United where he established himself as a dreaded flanker,  attracting interests from a number of clubs who jostled for his signature. The demand for his services proved hard to turn down and Sofapaka managed to lure him late in 2013 and kept him for two years before turning professional in Finland. However, his stay in Finland was short-lived and returned home the following year to sign for the then rejuvenated AFC Leopards and stayed at the den for a year. His next move nearly turned fatal as he was forced to terminate his contract with South African based Golden Arrows in 2017 at gunpoint and later lodged a complain with Fifa through the South African Football Players Union (SAFPU) a move which attracted the attention of the global president Gianni Infantino who ordered the South African federation to investigate the case. Miheso would later join the Zambian League, where he signed for Buildcom FC late in 2017 before making his latest move in Portugal. The winger made his national team debut in 2012 in a friendly match against Egypt and has several caps against his name. He was part of the Harambee Stars squad that won the 2013 Cecafa Senior Challenge and finished as runners up the previous year. The midfielder was lastly summoned to the national team in this year’s Afcon qualifier match against Ghana although he did not make it to the final squad. He last featured for Stars in October 2017 in two friendly matches against Iraq and Thailand. Clube Olimpico Do Montijo are currently placed seventh in Group ‘D’ of the second division with 30 points. They play their home matches in the Campo da Liberdade Stadium.