A section of legislators from Machakos county want funds to be devolved to the lowest administrative level - wards - for residents to feel the impact of devolution. MPs Stephen Mule (Matungulu), Patrick Makau (Mavoko) and Muthwani MCA George King’ori said there is no need for a referendum if it is only intended to make people get political seats. “Vote No to the referendum if it is coming for people to get seats. But if it is meant for money to come to the grassroots, ward level then I will campaign for it,” Mule said. The leaders spoke during an educational day at Sengani Girls Secondary school in Matungulu constituency, Machakos County on Saturday. Mule said it is only in Kenya where citizens will be going for a referendum because people want political seats. “Enough is enough. As parents, we must safeguard the interest of schools in Kenya. We need funds at the grassroots for constructing schools,” he said. The lawmaker said Kenyans must take advantage of the constitutional amendment to strengthen devolution and make sure that funds move from counties’ headquarters to the ward level. Mule said MCAs shy away from their electorate since they do not have any fund allocations for development. “As a parent, you elect an MCA but he can’t even come here since he has nothing to show that he is contributing to the ward’s development. They have no funds,” he said. Makau said there is the need to anchor CDF model like fund allocations to MCAs in the Constitution to spur grassroots development. “We want a referendum that is inclusive so that every tribe of this country is represented in government. The Prime Minister, two deputies, President, deputy president among others. Everybody should feel represented. We also need to anchor MCAs’ funds in the constitution,” he added. Makau questioned why county governments are not being realistic and reasonable to know that educational standards cannot improve without injecting money in projects like constructing classrooms among other infrastructure to complement CDF funds. Speaking in Muthwani, King’ori said residents have not felt the impact of devolution since development funds have not reached the grassroots. He said projects are at the county level and more youths will be employed in the wards across the country if funds trickle to the ground. Click here for the latest political news 