Kenya has denied claims that a section of its envoys have been rejected by their host countries. Foreign Affairs Principal Secretary Macharia Kamau said reports that six ambassadors have been rejected due to integrity issues are untrue. Those who were said to have been rejected are former Sports CS Hassan Wario posted to Austria, Former Air Force commander Samuel Thuita (Israel) and former CID boss Ndegwa Muhoro (Malaysia). Others are Sarah Serem (China), Richard Ekai (Russia) and Paddy Ahenda (Qatar). The six are among other envoys who were vetted and endorsed by MPs for deployment to various missions. Macharia said all the appointees are set to report to their destinations by end of next week. “The current headlines are untrue and incorrect. The appointees have been deployed and will be reporting to their destinations next week,” he said. Macharia in a statement said Kenya has never had envoys rejected by any country. “In fact, all the host countries are ready to receive them and have begun to do so. Every country schedules the presentation ceremonies at specific times depending on their traditions and availability of Head of State,” a statement from the ministry further quoted. Ex-CID boss in his comment to the Star said, “Ignore the media reports. I am leaving on Monday, and by next week the other appointees will also depart". Malaysian Embassy in Nairobi said the government had accepted Muhoro's as the high commissioner-designate of Kenya. Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo said it is a shame that most of the political appointees are selected to enhance a certain agenda and in most instances never pass the integrity test. “Chapter six has never applied in these appointees. It is a shame that even these appointments are based on tribal and political lines at the expense of the country,” he said in an interview with NTV. His Nairobi counterpart Johnson Sakaja said the executive should also bear part of the blame for exerting too much pressure on parliament to endorse individuals. Click here for the latest political news 