Harambee Stars coach Sebastien Migne can afford a smile as the Ministry of Sports has pledged to remit his salaries and allowances on time as well as shoulder the national team’s budget in the forthcoming Africa Cup of Nations. Since his appointment in May last year, Migne hasn’t shied away from voicing his concerns over delayed salaries from the government despite steering the country back to the Africa Cup of Nations after 15 years in the cold. The team requires Sh240 million for the tournament. The ministry through it’s Principal Secretary Kirimi Kaberia admitted to have faced challenges before wiring the Frenchman’s dues but pledged to work closely with the newly constituted Sports Fund Committee in achieving a timely pay besides supporting the team in preparations for the Afcon finals. Stars, who are set to camp in France in readiness for the tournament slated for June 21 to July 19 in Egypt, submitted a budget which Kaberia promised to mobilize funds and deliver for smooth preparations and participation. Speaking yesterday during the launching of the role of sports in realising the government’s big four agenda, Kaberia said despite the looming budget slash to the ministry, his office will work towards meeting their promises to the team and coach. He also promised to work with and financially support the incoming Kenya Rugby Union (KRU) chairman and his new board. He said this will help in mitigating the Kenya Sevens team’s dismal performance in the ongoing International rugby series. He said: “We met and discussed with the coach and promised to honour a timely pay to him. We will work closely with the Sports Fund Committee in delivering this as well as the team’s budget for the forthcoming continental tournament. Efforts to have the fund in operation are almost over and in a week’s time, all disciplines will benefit and have a solution to their financial challenges. We are also looking forward to work and support the new KRU board in finding a solution to the team’s poor run in the international series.” Kaberia, who introduced the newly appointed Sports Kenya Director General Pius Metto during the launch, further promised to give the way forward on the mystery surrounding the Sh50 million and a bus promise made to the team upon qualifying to the Afcon. The promise which came from the Deputy President in December 2017 after the Cecafa Senior Challenge Cup triumph is yet to be honoured amid reports that the cash prize is set to be deducted from the Afcon preparations budget.