The Chinese man who started the first donkey slaughterhouse in Kenya has passed away. Though Lu Jing's death was not made public, the 74-year-old entrepreneur died on Sunday while undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Nakuru county. Sources said Jing died after a short illness. He was buried on Wednesday in Mogotio, Baringo county at his premises as per Chinese custom. He left behind two children. Jing was the owner of Goldox Ltd, a donkey slaughterhouse, in Mogotio, which he started in 2013 on a 10-acre land. The businessman would slaughter around 400 donkeys on a daily basis. The Sh300 million abattoir has employed over 250 people besides creating a business environment in the region. Read: Donkey meat more nutritious than chicken - Vets "He was a good man who created many jobs, inspired the young and lived well with us," his former translator Suleiman Mbatia said. “He was a welcoming, determined and hard working old man. His multimillion slaughterhouse and Chinese restaurants have employed hundreds of youth in Baringo and Nakuru. Though having complied with all legal requirements, Lu was met with resistance by some individuals with vested interests but he stood the test of time.” Jing also owned the only Chinese restaurant in Nakuru town. The proprietor gained Kenyan citizenship in 1989 and was later heavily involved in civic duties. Those who knew him told The Star that he has invested heavily both in the Rift valley and Nairobi in the hotel industry. His abattoir targets countries such to China, Russia, and other far east nations where donkey products are in high demand like "Ejiao" Chinese medicine. The gelatine from donkey skin is a key ingredient in traditional Chinese medicine “Ejiao”. As manufacturers struggle to meet rising demand, they have set up shop in Baringo and Nakuru counties, the first donkey abattoirs in Africa. Donkey skin goes for between Sh30,000-Sh50,000 in the black market, depending on the donkey’s weight. Read also: Ministry reflecting on donkey meat trade - CS Ejiao is sought after as medicine for a range of problems, from simple colds and insomnia to delaying ageing and increasing libido to treating the side-effects of chemotherapy and preventing infertility, miscarriage and menstrual irregularity in women. No animal product goes to waste. Innards like liver, intestines and lungs are cooked under high temperatures and later dried in the sun. A huge chunk is sold to a Korean investor who rears crocodiles. Residents urged those who will take over the business to continue running it well to boost the economy of the area. "I have a shop in this area. Since the abattoir was opened in 2016, my business has improved greatly. I hope those who will take over will manage it well so it can help the residents in the area," said Peter Kipchoim, a resident. Click here for the latest political news. 