Water CS Simon Chelugui on Thursday said the newly appointed individuals to various water boards are from diverse backgrounds and will help the government attain 80 per cent water coverage by 2020. In a statement, Chelugui said the new team, most politicians who lost in the 2017 general election will be inaugurated within the next two weeks. "Our board is carefully selected to mix new and old members, professionally diversified, religious and regionally spread. Among them are former ministers, governors, MPs, engineers, medical doctors, pilots, media personalities, women leaders, businessmen, lecturers and accountants. All of them will enrich our collective mission of attaining 80 per cent water coverage by next year," he said. "Congratulation to all successful appointees. I look forward to inaugurating them in two weeks time and thereafter each board to conduct quick board induction to enable the new members seamlessly join our results-driven team," he added. Last week, President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto, through Cabinet secretaries appointed a number of poll losers to key State corporations. Those who were appointed by Chelugui included former Kajiado governor David Ole Nkedienye who was appointed to chair National Water Harvesting and Storage Authority, former Mwingi Central MP Joe Mutambu to the Water Resources Authority as chairman and former Kilifi South MP Mustafa Salim Iddi to chair the Coast Water Works Development Agency board. Others are former Machakos governor contestant Wavinya Ndeti and former Laikipia Governor Joshua Irungu. The two will the Kenya Water Institute and the Water Services Regulatory Authority Board respectively. Former Konoin MP was appointed the new chairman of the Lake Victoria North Water Works Development Agency while his former Samburu North counterpart Raphaella Lentoimanga will sit on the board of the Northern Water Works Development Agency and former Tiaty MP Asman Kamama at the Rift Valley Water Works Development Agency. Read; Former governors, sports legend land state jobs in Uhuru's latest appointments Former Kajiado West MP Moses ole Sakuda and former Turbo MP Elisha Busienei sits in the boards of the Ewaso Ngiro South Development Authority board and the Lake Basin Development Authority respectively. Agnes Kavindu Muthama was appointed to sit on the board of the Tanathi Water Works Development Agency. Chelugui said he has directed all managing directors of various parastatals under his ministry who got new board chairpersons or members to set dates for induction. The new appointees will be trained on corporate governance, Ministry of Water and Sanitation corporate policy, water acts and reform plans, regulation procurement, audit, human resource management, integrity and ethics, finance, project planning, and budgeting. "It's my expectation that new members within three months will have knowledge on those matters to empower them to preside over very successful board matters," he said. Also read; Omtatah wants Uhuru's State appointments quashed Click here for the latest political news