Deputy
President William Ruto claims to be an innocent buyer of irregularly alienated
government land, but seeks to be allowed to compensate government for its
loss. The
National Land Commission purports to approve of this solution.  Both are mistaken about the law. First off,
government cannot be compensated for land that was alienated from it by fraud
or illegality.  The NLC’s mandate is
limited to historical land injustices and the government is not contemplated as
a victim of historical injustice as it has the power to reverse thefts of its
land.  The Civil Aviation Authority is a government
agency, hence it cannot be compensated for land stolen from it, and it would be
extremely bad public policy to set a precedent where government would take
money for land it robbed from it. Second, addressing
the position of the owner of the Weston Hotel, the defence of ‘innocent
purchaser’ is not applicable where there has been fraud or illegality in the
transfer of government property. Even if
CAA was a private person, the new Land Law (Section 26(1) of the Land
Registration Act No 3 of 2012) would not permit Weston Hotel to claim the
fabled status of an innocent third party purchaser for value without
notice.  This is even if they had
absolutely nothing to do with the original scheme to irregularly take
government land. In the
case of Elijah Makeri Nyangwara v
Stephen Mungai Njuguna & Another (2013) eKLR the Court considered
the implication of Section 26(1) of the Land Registration Act No. 3 of 2012
with regard to innocent purchaser, “…The heavy import of section 26 (1) (b) is to remove protection from
an innocent purchaser or innocent title holder. It means that the title of
an innocent person is impeachable so long as that title was obtained illegally,
unprocedurally or through a corrupt scheme.  The title holder need not
have contributed to these vitiating factors.  The purpose of section 26
(1) (b) in my view is to protect the real title holders from being
deprived of their titles by subsequent transactions.’’ The position that a fraudulent title cannot be
allowed to stand has been affirmed at the Court of Appeal level in the case of Arthi Highway Developers Limited vs West
End Butchery Limited & 6 Others, Court of Appeal at Nairobi, Civil Appeal
No. 246 of 2013 (2015) eKLR. This is a case where certain crooks
fraudulently acquired title to land and later sold the same to other parties.
The Environment and Land Court at Nairobi, cancelled all titles and ordered the
land to revert to the original owner. The decision was upheld by the Court of
Appeal. Fourth, even under the old legal regime, Section
26 of the former Land Registration Act qualified that an innocent purchaser
status would be denied to anyone claiming following a process proven to be
tainted by  fraud or misrepresentation,
to which the claimant is proved to be a party; or where the certificate of the
title has been acquired illegally, unprocedurally or through a corrupt
scheme. There is
sufficient evidence and law behind the proposition that Weston Hotel title
should be cancelled by the Registrar without compensation to the owners. The hotel owner’s remedy is against the persons
who sold him government land, and is no concern to the public anymore. I am, therefore, very glad to hear that the Head
of the Public Service has communicated the President’s direction to the CS for Lands
to cancel the illegal title held by Weston hotel.  Mati is CEO, Mars Group 