The Anti-Terror Police Unit on Thursday released nine suspects including five NTSA officials held for investigations for possible involvement in the Dusit terror attack. The suspects were being investigated for possibly aiding and abetting the terrorist attack where 21 people were killed. But state counsel Duncan Ondimu said after investigations, the ATPU did not find evidence linking the nine to the attack. Ondimu told senior resident magistrate Caroline Nzimbe that police are no longer interested in keeping them in custody. However, Ondimu said there are separate ongoing investigations that will require the released NTSA staffers and three others to report at the ATPU headquarters periodically. The NTSA officials freed are director of registration and licensing Jacqueline Githinji and her deputy Cosmas Ngesa. Others are clerical officers, Irungu Irvin, Stephen Mbaka and Charles Ndung'u. Read: NTSA official detained 30 days over terror attack vehicle The officials were held over registration of two motor vehicles - KCF 872 R and two others that bore similar registration numbers KCN 340E including a Toyota Ractis used by the attackers. They had filed an application at the high court to have their detention period reduced. They filed the application through lawyer Danstan Omari and the application was scheduled for a hearing on Tuesday. But Omari said he will withdraw the application. The five will be appearing at the ATPU head offices in Nairobi every Thursday beginning next week. The ATPU also released Gladys Kaari, Guleid Abdihakim, Hussein Khamis and insurance agent Zipporah Karanja. Kaari was detained after ATPU established that she allowed the leader of the six terrorists killed during the attack Ali Salim Gichunge to withdraw cash at her Mpesa shop despite not having a national ID. Karanja facilitated handlers of one of the cars used by the attackers to get a third party insurance cover. Kaari, Karanja and Khamis will be reporting at the counter-terrorism unit offices once a month. Only Abdihakim was released unconditionally. Also read: NTSA staff held over Dusit terror attack Click here for the latest political news