Wiper Party has dared its chairman Kivutha Kibwana to walk the talk and ditch the party on whose ticket he won the Makueni gubernatorial seat. In a rare attack on its chairman, Wiper Executive Director Jared Siso challenged Kivutha to return the party ticket if he is a man enough instead of fighting his perceived wars in the media. Siso said the party has not met to decide whether to initiate a disciplinary action against the chairman whose actions he said amounts to one hell-bent on committing political suicide. “He is a distinguished constitutional lawyer, he is a public figure and has been in leadership for a long time. If in his own estimation and wisdom he thinks that the party which he is entrusted to chair is at variance with his conscience, he can do the honourable thing and step down,” Siso told the Star on phone. Kivutha is the face of implosion in the Wiper party and has rubbished its leader Kalonzo Musyoka’s support for the ruling Jubilee administration as self centered. Read: I am ready to quit Wiper Party, Kibwana declares According to the Makueni county boss, Ukambani region will lag behind despite Kalonzo’s support for Uhuru, a situation he claimed is because the former Vice President failed to create a formal working structure with the government. Siso however accused the governor of peddling lies disclosing that Kivutha was indeed present in a NEC’s meeting which resolved that the party should work with the government of the day. “I find it a bit ironical and strange that at our party’s NEC there is a resolution to work with Uhuru government with regards to strengthen his capacity to fight corruption and enhance inclusivity, Kibwana was the gentleman who read the resolution,” Siso said. The second term governor has also roped in the other two Ukambani governors – Charity Ngilu (Kitui) and Alfred Mutua (Machakos) – to form what is viewed as an alliance to reduce Kalonzo’s dominance in the region. The Governor has also been loudly uncomfortable with the manner Kalonzo has been running the political outfit. The bad blood between the two escalated on Thursday after the governor vowed he is ready to let go the party’s chairmanship. Speaking at ATC Kwa-Kathoka in Makueni Kivutha asked the Wiper leader to remove him as the party chairman adding he is tired of the ‘abusive marriage’. “If he is organising to be somebody’s running mate come 2022 let him exit as a gentleman”. More: Kibwana cautioned over public attack on Wiper leader Kalonzo More on this: Divorce me, but consult Makueni people – Kivutha Click here for the latest political news