A seven member committee appointed by the Labour Cabinet Secretary
to mediate the deadlock on teachers strike wants the ministry to establish a Joint
Industrial Council to help in future disputes between KNUT. CS Ukur Yattani appointed Charles Maranga as the chairperson
of the committee and the members included Benson Okwaro, Wafula Musamia, Linus
Kariuki, Moses Ombokh, Robert Muthanga and Geoffrey Omondi. In a report filed in court, the team say that there is need
for establishment of a standing Joint Industrial Council (JIC) under
chairmanship of a neutral person who is well versed with employment and labour
relations practice. “JIC will be created by both TSC and KNUT and it will have
an independent Chairperson to be created by both parties.” the report said. Prior to the committee being formed, KNUT had raised several
issues that gave rise to the strike notice which included Teachers Promotions,
transfer of teachers, performance contracting and appraisal system and Teachers
Professional Development Modules. On the issue of promotions, the team noted that the TSC
Circular dated May 2 last year was an outcome of the Salary Remuneration Commission’s
Job Evaluation report that enabled TSC secure Sh 54 Billion to upgrade the
teachers. “In implementing the report and promoting teachers,TSC did
not consult KNUT leading to the omission in promotion of an alleged 11,950
teachers with higher academic qualifications.” Reads the report Read: TSC targets thousands of teachers in third phase of transfers In line with the above findings, the committee has recommended
that they constitution a Joint Committee within the next 30 days to consult and
entrench the criteria for promotion in line with their CBA, CORT and TSC Act
2012 to guide the exercise moving forward. The seven member team also says that future promotions should
be based on the regulations CBA and TSC Act 2012 and any other document agreed
upon by the KNUT and TSC” In Delocalization of teachers, the committee noted that KNUT
had initially complained of transfer of 3,094 teachers but they have established
that only 278 teachers have so far appealed against the transfers through the
Union. “In addition there are 85 trade union leaders who are
currently affected by the transfer” the report reads. They were of the opinion that TSC as the employer has the
mandate to transfer teachers and also promote them over and above the CBA or
Code of Regulation for Teachers. They said that the transfer of union officials should be
restricted within their locality until the end of their current term as officials. “Whereas TSC has the mandate to transfer its teachers it is
good industrial relations practice they consult where the transfer involves
elected trade unions officials” they added. Further adding that this arrangement on transfers should be
in-cooperated into their CBA. They also established that under the current status the
union officials who are also institutional administrators are faced with
conflict of interest in the execution of their duties. The committee also recommended that in the future there
should be a standing conciliation committee for resolution of disputes in
public sector. The also noted that the some of the complaints brought out
during the talks were genuine and require urgent attention and remedial action. Read: Knut furious as TSC calls off Friday meeting, issues ultimatum On the issue of Teachers Professional Development Modules
they found out that both TSC and KNUT were in agreement that they require the
said modules. TSC intends to levy a fee of Sh 500 every month to fund the implementation
of the modules to which KNUT is opposed to. The Modules enable a teacher to acquire a certificate in the
teaching profession for compliance and it is argued that the Regulatory function
is not part of the Code of Regulations for teachers of the CBA. According to their regulations, every registered teacher is
required to undertake CPG and professional development programs as per regulations
made under the TSC Act. The committee noted that “both TSC and KNUT should encourage
and support certification of teachers and also TSC should share with KNUT the
said modules with a view of educating them” It also emerged that both parties did not have an objection to
the introduction of performance management system and they were encouraged to
cooperate and implement it. The parties will all appear before he industrial team to submit the report on February 18. Click here for
the latest political news