The Kakamega government intends to
borrow Sh2 billion to equip Sh10 billion Kakamega County
Referral and Teaching hospital, governor Wycliffe Oparanya has said. The 750-bed hospital will
become the health service hub in Western once complete. Oparanya said that the
money will also be used to equip the two new level 4 hospitals in Mumias town
and Shamakhubu in Shinyalu. “The state of the art
facility will provide comprehensive healthcare besides promoting health
tourism. We have engaged international partners and the donor community to
fast track its completion. Phase 1 will be equipped and commissioned soon,” he
said. During last year’s
Mashujaa Day celebrations in Kakamega, President Uhuru Kenyatta asked Oparanya
to engage Health CS Sicily Kariuki and work out on how the hospital
would be equipped. Oparanya said that plans
to upgrade health centres in Khwisero, Shinyalu, Mumias East, Mumias West and Navakholo
sub counties where such facilities need improvement is ongoing. “We plan to strengthen subcounty hospitals by
posting specialists to the facilities. They will be supported by referrals of
consultant doctors, thus cutting down costs for patients at
the county general hospital,” he said. Oparanya spoke when he opened the third session of the second county assembly on Tuesday
afternoon. He said his
government is identifying and registering the most vulnerable citizens to the
NHIF medical insurance scheme to support the community increase universal
health coverage, in line with the Big Four agenda. So far, 8, 840
vulnerable individuals plus 200 old people spread out in all wards have been registered. Oparanya said the
construction of two flagship factories for processing tea and dairy products is
now at the design stage and they will be launched soon. The multi-billion dairy
processing plant will be constructed in Malava and a tea factory in
Shinyalu constituency. “We also plan to
construct two jua kali sheds in each of the 12 constituencies to spur the county’s
industrial growth," she said. The governor said his
government has started a process of ensuring safe drinking water for all by 2022. “My government has embarked on construction of a 5,000 cubic metres water storage
tank in Kakamega town at a cost of Sh87 million," he said. This
project comes at a time when plans are underway to upgrade Kakamega town into
city status, thus the necessity  to prepare for the anticipated growth in population. 