The Law Society of Kenya is set to have one of its most charged council meetings today. Sources whispered to Corridors of Power that among the issues the divided council will consider is the renewal of the CEO’s expired term. The council will also decide whether or not to allow Tom Ojienda (pictured) to defend his seat as nominee to the Judicial Service Commission. The Ojienda matter has turned into a hot potato within the society amid allegations some officials are determined to lock him out of the contest. Then there is what some advocates claim is blatant tribalism in the recruitment of staff at the LSK secretariat. At the centre, is the recruitment of some interns on pupillage, all said to belong to one community. Today’s meeting comes days after society president Allen Gichuhi was booed in Kisumu over his leadership style. Yesterday, the troubled society was trending on twitter under the #LSKcartels. Could a Kenya National Union of Nurses official be scheming to end the nurses strike due to pressure? A faction within the union sees this as betrayal and a cowardly act. A senior member of the governing council told Corridors of Power that the senior official has been hobnobbing with some Council of Governors and Ministry of Health officials with the aim of sealing a deal behind the members’ backs. This deal has sparked outrage at the union’s top brass amid claims the official on the spot met some emissaries sent to influence the union to soften its stance on the push for the implementation of the 2017 CBA. Did Tourism CS Najib Balala appoint a relative to the board of a parastatal within his ministry or is it just a case of similar names? Well, there is one Abdul Hakim Balala who was named a trustee of the Board of Tourism Fund. No one is sure whether he is related to the CS or not. The appointment has generated a lot of heated discussions. Some civil society players were heard whispering that the CS should shed some light. Did Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko deliberately decide to publicly embarrass one of his senior county officials? Well, Corridors of Power is informed that the governor – known for his plain talk - didn’t hesitate to express his disappointment on Tuesday during a consultative meeting between the Nairobi government and the county nurses after it came to his attention that acting county secretary Pauline Kahiga was not in the meeting and told one of his CECs to call her immediately. “What is she doing in office and we have a crucial issue here?” the governor asked. Less than two minutes, the county secretary came into Charter Hall, where the meeting was taking place, walking hurriedly to the podium. ‘Unafanya nini kwa ofisi na nina mkutano hapa, na unaingia uki catwalk? This is a serious issue,’ the governor shouted. She then took her seat with her head bowed, trying to save face from further embarrassment. Click here for the latest political news