The hills around Baringo and Nakuru counties will reverberate with the roar of turbo-charged machines when the opening round of the Kenya National Rally Championship gets underway today. Defending champion Carl ‘Flash’ Tundo, Ian Duncan and Baldev Chager will be the star attractions in the event which will be flagged off at the KCB Mogotio branch and finish at the RVMSC Clubhouse Solai. With the scrapping of the B13 Class, which permitted drivers a bigger turbo restrictor and a sequential gearbox, Tundo and Chager will have to push a little bit harder against Onkar Rai’s Skoda Fabia R5. “In Nakuru we shall employ the same strategy, finish and finish well! Skoda has huge advantage at every level to be honest so there not much we can do about that,” said Tundo. Baldev Chager, who will be piloting a Kabras Sugar Racing Mitsubishi lancer Evolution X said: “We shall just do the usual, the best we can. We aren’t looking forward to the 33mm restrictors again and normal pattern gearbox.” The event has attracted seven cars in the Premier Class and a similar number in KNRC Division1. Tejveer Rai will be off the ramp first followed by Eric Bengi, Duncan, Tundo, defending back-to-back Nakuru champion Onkar Rai and Baldev Chager taking off sixth. Bengi will be making his debut in Division One and hopes to take it easy before coming to grips with the car. He said: “We really want to take it easy in Nakuru and finish the event. We need to get used to the new car and learn it well. By the third event, we should hopefully start recording some good times. Later in the season, our target is to hit a few podium places and record better career finishes than 4th last year. Let’s see how the season unfolds.” The Division 1 category has Karan Patel, who is back in his championship winning Subaru GC8. His Evo-X couldn’t be entered in the rally after it rolled out in the ARC Rally of Tanzania. Karan will fight it out with Mombasa-based Ammar Haq and Sohanjeet Puee who won both the KNRC Division 2 and Group ‘S’ last season. “Can’t wait to get back in the cockpit, the break has been long enough. The Nakuru event for us is meant to  shake off the cobwebs and reunite with the car after almost two months as we did a complete strip. As for the rest of the season we are in a new and more competitive division with more experienced drivers so it’s about keeping it as tidy as possible and hope for decent finishes,” Ammar said.