Former Export Processing Zone Authority bosses risk losing Sh220 million in compensation to a private firm over a land parcel in Mombasa. A new internal EPZA report shows blatant misuse of the authority’s land by private investors, with at least five tittle deeds missing. The Sh220 million was to be paid by Kenya Ports Authority for the land acquired to expand Kipevu–KPA road. The money was in addition to land worth Sh90 million in Mombasa that KPA agreed to surrender to EPZA. However, a private firm, Export Milling Limited, says they had leased the land from EPZA and is claiming the money. The EPZA legal department has been supporting the claim by Export Milling Limited despite the audit indicating that the lease was not executed. “KPA claimed the government valuer’s report in 2014 indicated that plot MN/V1/4785 had been leased to Olsa Ltd and not Export Miling Limited,” the audit reads. “The lease for Olsa was terminated by EPZA which executed a new lease to Export Milling Ltd in 2015, when negotiations between EPZA and KPA were at an advanced stage. ” On December 17 last year, the courts ruled that some Sh125 million KPA had paid the company should be given to Export Milling Ltd, a decision that the ports authority has successfully appealed. The controversial deals were signed during the tenure of former CEO Fanuel Kidenda. However, new EPZA board led by Chairman Paul Gicheru is spearheading a grand house-cleaning for the authority at the heart of industrialisation, a key pillar of President Kenyatta’s Big Four Agenda. Sources told the Star that EPZA is planning to join KPA to oppose payments to any private firm. The audit indicates that title deeds of four parcels of the authority’s land in Nairobi are missing. Also missing is the title for another piece of land in Kipevu, Mombasa. The report also indicates that East Africa Halal Industries EPZ, a private firm, renewed its license severally without a compliance audit being conducted. The same firm changed its name to Kenmeat EPZ Ltd, with the report saying there is no evidence of the authority’s involvement.