 Those of who
were of age in 1992 will recall how William Ruto was ubiquitous member in all Youth
for Kanu’92 (YK’92) activities and occasions. The lobby had
arrived in the volatile political scene with a bang. It was launched with pomp
and fanfare at Nyayo National Stadium at a ceremony officiated by Vice
President George Saitoti. The leadership, under Cyrus Jirongo exhibited
flamboyance and opulence. Generosity and
extravagance soon became their signature style. In their convoys, money was no
longer carried in briefcases but cartons. They had the ears of the president
and those who mattered around State House. Fundraising events were organised in
numbers and regularly to endear the outfit to the people as philanthropist. The
cast of leaders were young, suave and moneyed. They became the idolised image
of the new youth in Kenya. The image developed was instrumental in helping
President Daniel Moi, the Kanu candidate in the first multiparty elections
since 1966 to win. It also altered
the political landscape of the country in many ways. The economic ramifications
of the carefree use of money to manipulate the process and outcome of the 1992
General Election are still being felt to date. Jirongo was the face of the
outfit as the head, supported by Sam Nyamweya as treasurer and Ken Ouko as
organising secretary. However, keen
observers were able to pick out the forces behind the organisation as Ruto and
Micah Kigen. They held nominal positions of leadership but were almost entirely
responsible for the efficient organisational operations and uninterrupted
financial liquidity. While Ruto has
previously been presented as debuting in politics in 1997, he had been a
regular at State House circles much earlier. This was on account of being a
student leader and coming from the Rift Valley. His strong Christian
persuasions made him an easy sell to Moi’s court. He, therefore, provided the much-needed
link to the rank of emerging tenderprenuers but who were rank outsiders to the
court. Kigen, on the other hand, was the link to the inexhaustible vaults of
cash. Ruto then became instrumental but not the leader and indispensable. Moi noticed the
mobilisation acumen of the young man from Sugoi and tapped him to the high
table. This was short lived as the president sought to disperse the group after
the elections through disbandment. The team was not satisfied with the trolleys
of cash given to them during the campaigns and demanded more. They were thus
not happy at the president’s decision to dissolve what he did not form. The
young and ambitious lot had tasted the goodies of state patronage and were not
about to let go that easily. They revolted violently and formed the United
Democratic Front, as they roped in the youthful and restless Cherengani MP
Kipruto Kirwa to their ranks. By his demeanour,
Moi was utterly annoyed but also found name of the resultant outfit anathema.
He could not countenance the words “united”, “democratic”, and “front” combined
as a name and being championed by people from Kalenjin. He moved swiftly to
disorient the group by making Kirwa minister for Agriculture and entangling
Jirongo with fully financed lucrative government tenders that almost brought down
the Postbank Credit and NSSF. Ruto managed to survive this onslaught and
Jirongo has discussed their relationship during this period in details. He managed to
wrestle the Eldoret North MP seat from long-serving Moi’s friend and relative
Reuben Chesire. The by Moi plot to manage his succession and determine Kanu’s
candidate presented a golden opportunity for Ruto. He used this process to warm
his ways back into Moi’s court. He played dumb and was always available to do
any of the president’s bidding and dirty chores. He behaved as though Moi was
the philosopher king, all knowing and benevolent. As the president
brought in Raila Odinga’s National Development Party to join up with Kanu, Ruto
found his networks with youthful NDP operatives useful. He would therefore play
key roles in the ensuing negotiations and was visibly pivotal in the logistics
of March 2002 Kasarani delegates conference. He became the Director of
Elections in the new Kanu outfit, taking cue from Raila’s manoeuvres at the
protracted Ford Kenya elections at City Stadium in 1992. The fallout between
Moi and Raila got him elevated to the Cabinet as minister of Home Affairs and
de facto manager of Uhuru Kenyatta’s presidential campaigns. They lost the
2002 election and found themselves in the unfamiliar opposition territories. Once again, the
tensions within Narc leading to the eventual breakup of the Mwai Kibaki’s
government were Godsend. Raila led his LDP troops out of government by joining
with Kanu to defeat Kibaki at the 2005 referendum. While Uhuru
backed down later and rejoined Kibaki’s reelection team, Ruto remained in the
emergent Orange Democratic Movement. He became the most prominent player and
prolific mobiliser. The results of the 2007 election were disputed and led to
unprecedented bloodletting. In the coalition
government that followed, Ruto served as key minister and leader of the
Kalenjin in government. Their relationship with Raila could not last the tenure
of the nusu mkate government. In
tandem was the ICC indictment on the post-election violence. They back together
with Uhuru as they rallied the nation to shield them from The Hague
prosecutions. Together they
used this obstacle to their full advantage. They mobilised their respective
ethnic communities and displayed vast financial resources to win the elections
against all odds. They exhibited a united duopoly in the presidency and
demonstrated a rare comradery in managing government affairs. This cordial
working relationship was maintained through the first term of Jubilee
administration. It was largely responsible for the win at the October, 2017 repeat
election, in spite of the bitter dispute by the Nana brigade. However, Ruto’s
long political and leadership history is anchored under the wings and shadow of
other luminaries. His successes have been recorded while working as support
cast. He has no glory from any political contest attributable to him singly
except the 1997 parliamentary elections. Yet he today stands at the threshold
of the most competitive political contest. He has never led a rebellion nor a
conquest. Kenyans have less understanding of their future commander in chief at
the battlefront. The rise of Interior
CS Fred Matiang’i and the apparent isolation of Ruto by State House are an
opportunity to emerge from the shadows of his mentors from Moi to Raila and now
Uhuru. The promptness with which the elite forces responded to the 14 Riverside
Drive Dusit Hotel attack capped the meteoric rise of Matiang’i. The command was
much better coordinated as compared to the previous terrorist attacks. Shortly
thereafter, the president made him “chief minister” through an Executive Order
to supervise all government development projects and be responsible for
communication of the same. He has now cemented this command structure by
appointing new regional commissioners. He introduced them to the president at
State House, Mombasa, and Uhuru did not hide his joy while receiving them. The
outfit would bolster the Cabinet delivery of the government services. In tandem with
this, the leadership of devolved governance was roped into the referendum
agenda.  At the Council of Governors, the
President also executed a masterstroke by ensuring that the county chiefs
closed ranks. The walls between Jubilee and Nasa were brought down at the last CoG
elections and the governors enticed to fully support the referendum bid. With the strong
regional coordination of national development and support of the county
governments, President Kenyatta will now rely on Matiang’i to determine the
direction of the referendum and his legacy. These are roles that traditionally
were the forte of the Deputy President. Now that he is largely free from the
burdens of his office, he has the perfect chance to demonstrate his mettle
through either rebellion or conquest.  Kanyadudi is a political and public policy analyst