Enterpreneurs who have past experience in the hospitality industry are best suited for spurring growth of eateries and bistros in the country. Cafe Deli founder and MD Obado Obadoh says members within the hospitality business best understand the industry’s dynamics as opposed to foreign investors. Armed with only a high school certificate, Obadoh joined the Norfolk hotel as an apprentice chef in 1990. Fourteen years after doing rounds in Kenya’s hotel circuit, he decided to venture out on his own. “I was a chef so I understand how the industry works. Newcomers inject money and adopt styles without first understanding the Kenyan market and culture,” he said. Obadoh said experience would not only increase employment opportunities, but create an equal opportunity environment for local players to compete with their foreign counterparts based in the country. Nairobi county has seen an influx of restaurants and lounges as local and foreign brands target the country’s growing middle class with higher disposable income. Access to credit is still the greatest challenge for entrepreneurs looking to penetrate the hotel industry. “Banks viewed the business as too risky.Now with the law capping interest rates, they are more reluctant to finance such ventures,” he said during the launch of one of his branches in downtown Nairobi. Obadoh now wants the government to finance businesses in the hospitality industry to level the playing field. “It is not fair for us to compete with global players who reinvest their profits for expansion. Instead of growing our businesses, we are being forced to pay off loans from foreign financiers at very expensive rates,” he said. He said the Café Deli business has so far received $1,000 (Sh1 million) through a private equity fund, helping open three branches in Nairobi’s CBD. “We plan to open about four more restaurants by the close of next year,” he said. Speaking during the launch of the Café Deli franchise, Tourism Finance Corporation managing director Jonah Orumoi reiterated the need for more local hotel brands with global standards adding that it would help build tourism through authentic local cuisine offerings. He said the agency was working to engage local hoteliers to help them build their brands to global specifications through incentives such as tax breaks. “We may not see it but these firms are doing a lot, creating employment for the youth and in turn spurring economic growth,” he said.