The anti-corruption agency has raised a red flag over cases of double registration of land, forgery, missing files and illegal approval of buildings at the Ministry of Lands. In its latest report, the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission says processes and systems at the ministry are weak and prone to malpractices. The EACC says it established that the Lands Control Board failed to verify identities of interested parties when issuing consent for land transactions. The commission noted improper management of surrendered titles during land registration by the ministry and double registration. Land records were mixed up records in registries, the report says. The commission recommended the automation of correspondence for each parcel to facilitate ease of retrieval and detection of duplicated files. The EACC recorded weaknesses in the review of land management in line with the Constitution, regulations in use of new land laws and lack of procedure manuals to guide the technical processes of land management. The ministry lacks physical plans for rural and urban areas and there is no implementation of existing plans, coupled with irregular approval of developments. “There was irregular issuance of new deed plan numbers, inaccurate surveys and map amendments and existence of parallel survey records,” the EACC report reads. “The ministry should review the existing policy and legal framework and develop standard operating procedures to guide operations.” The commission reported denial of access to survey records by the ministry and recommended the implementation of a standardised survey records management system. Read: Matiang'i's interior ministry is the most corrupt - EACC The report shows that in land disputes, the ministry failed to publish the adjudication register and there were delays in the completion of adjudication. The ministry had irregular distribution of consent and processing of leases. The ministry and county governments were also flagged for disparities in the processing of leases and failure to continuously review land rates. “Consents should only be issued when all requirements are met and there should be periodic audits to assess irregular issuance of leases,” the commission said. The EACC faulted the ministry over its failure to conduct land inspection visits resulting in issuance of desk valuations and registration of documents without valuation. The report also found county governments were using outdated valuation rolls. “Land valuation for stamp duty should be based on current valuation rolls and site inspection. The ministry should develop a valuation system and ensure that land rates clearance certificates are issued before completion of the registration process,” reads the report. “Stamp duty should also be paid before completion of the registration process.” Also See: EACC saves Sh2 billion UoN land from grabber Click here for the latest political news