The decision by State House to move this year’s Madaraka Day celebrations from Kajiado to Narok has been blamed on “leadership incompetence”. Elected leaders said the decision “disappointing” even as Governor Joseph Lenku yesterday claimed he was part of the team that advised President Uhuru Kenyatta of Kajiado’s inability to host the event. Kajiado Central MP Elijah Memusi said, “We had time from last year to prepare but Governor Lenku failed the people of Kajiado. It shows the entire country that he is incompetent.” He said Lenku failed to explain what caused the delay that prompted the change of venue. He just said, “I was part of the decision.” Kajiado South MP Katoo ole Metito said, “I am sure the President meant well by proposing Kajiado to host this year’s Madaraka Day celebrations.” Metito said, after realising the venue (stadium) would not be ready in good time, the President directed that Sh100 million be allocated for the completion of Kajiado stadium in Ildamat Ward. “The President retained the celebrations’ venue within the same economic block in Narok county,” Metito said. County Assembly Speaker Johnson Osoi termed the State House decision “unfortunate and heartbreaking”, adding that he hoped the President would give Kajiado an opportunity to host national celebrations soon. A member of the national steering committee that had been mandated to undertake the construction of Kajiado stadium commended the decision, saying it would have been untenable. The official, who sought anonymity, said the decision to take the event to Narok was reached after intense consultation between Governor Lenku, the national team and State House, and that it became clear the situation on the ground “would not have allowed”. town’s poor infrastructure He did not disclose the amount that had allocated to the stadium. On Monday, Interior CS Fred Matiang’i led the national celebrations committee to State House to brief President Kenyatta on their preparedness to hold the ceremony in Kajiado. Kajiado town suffers a serious shortage of water, poor infrastructure and even the road leading to the stadium site is in poor condition. The town also suffers power outages of an average of 10 hours a day in a year. Hotelier Maina Kibuchi told the Star on Tuesday that they had been notified to paint their hotels and all the shops two months before Madaraka Day.