The Ethics and Anti- Corruption Commission will from tomorrow question at least 10 Kisumu county MCAs in connection with last week’s chaos in the Assembly. The violence happened during the swearing in of new Budget Committee chairperson Judith Ogaga on Tuesday. Some ward representatives tried to stop the process, bringing the house business to a halt. Speaker Onyango Oloo adjourned the assembly for 15 minutes after which Ogaga was sworn in. Western EACC regional administrator Ignatius Wekesa yesterday confirmed to the Star that the anti-graft agency was investigating some MCAs. The chaos started immediately after the administration of oath. Members rose from their seats on points of order claiming the oath was administered irregularly. Former Budget chairperson Steve Owiti claimed due process was not followed to replace him. “We have been on recess and convened last Tuesday. A notice was sent to us that there was a meeting for the committee on Tuesday but there was no agenda,“ he said and demanded to be told the reason for his removal. He accused Oloo of a plot to “sacrifice” him due to “my firm opposition to misappropriation of Assembly funds”. Majority leader Kenneth Odhiambo said it was hoped that when they resumed for the third Assembly session, rules and procedures in the house will take precedence. “The speaker is partisan and if this continues then he will be the one to be blamed because he has failed to take the leadership role,“ Odhiambo said. Liaison chairperson Roy Samu disagreed with the majority leader, saying the issue was a committee matter that had been discussed and a petition presented on a vote of no confidence in Owiti. Speaker Oloo said the Assembly had no room for violence and assault and urged members to sort out their differences amicably. He termed the members’ behaviour as “unruly and regrettable”. Oloo said members had the privilege of airing their concerns through proper channels, not resorting to violence. “This is a house of rules and debate, no member is allowed to be physical or use insulting language,” Oloo said. Last year in September,there was similar chaos in the County Assembly after Nominated MCA Caleb Omoro brought a motion to remove speaker Oloo.