Kitui nurses will from today boycott work in a nationwide strike called by their union. Kenya National Union of Nurses secretary for Kitui branch Newton Kimanzi yesterday said they have asked all their 700 members to go on strike starting today. “They have been asked to stay away from their work stations,” Kimanzi told the Star by phone. A meeting between branch officials and Governor Charity Ngilu last week failed to avert the industrial action. Kimanzi said nurses were left with no option “but to speak in a language the county government understands best.” The county said it can only effect the nurses demands in the next financial year, saying it did not have funds. “We are demanding the payment of the increased service allowance as agreed in the return to work agreement of 2017.” Kimanzi said relatives and guardians were asked to collect patients from hospitals. “They (patients) will be left to their own devices when nurses start the strike. We asked that all patients be taken away by end of the day (Sunday),” Kimanzi said. Speaking to the Star last week, Health chief officer Richard Muthoka said the county was willing to pay the nurses allowances but such payment had to be approved by the Salary and Remuneration Commission. The strike was called by KNUN secretary general Seth Panyako last week. He said the strike will disrupt services in 23 counties. Only Mombasa, Migori and Machakos will be affected because they “have fully complied and implemented the return to work formula.” The other 21 counties have shown interest in fulfilling the collective bargaining agreement. Last week, it emerged that governors fear copy cat effects if they implement the CBA, saying it might trigger similar demands by other employees. The Star established that a technical team put together by the Council of Governors, has advised against awarding nurses pay rise. “It is important to relook at the issues being advanced in view of the prevailing economic conditions and the inherent risks of triggering a ripple effect,” notes the draft report seen by the Star.