Its urgent and of national security importance that the Cabinet
considers and approves for onward transmission to Parliament of the Disaster Risk Management related bills and  Policy in the wake of the current fatalities facing
the country and  lessons learnt from
the  multi- agency approach  from handling the River side attack. The country needs a firm legal regime that lays down the legal
foundation for collaborative partnership in institutional participatory
management of disasters, including mobilisation of the essential wide range of
resources necessary for management of all disasters and above all, a system
that will remove any with inter – ministerial or inter agency turf wars by
being domiciled at the OP. There are a number of draft DRM related legal documents  gathering dust on the shelves in various public
offices that are urgent needed to help country comprehensively with tragedies.
The DRM Policy 2017 sponsored by four ministries; i.e. Ministry of Interior and
Coordination of National Government, Ministry of Devolution & ASALs, Ministry
of Defence and CS Treasury needs to be fast tracked. In addition, the DRM Bill
2016 and the National Disaster Management Bill 2018 — currently before the
Senate — need to be enacted as a matter of urgency and national concern. Once enacted and implemented, the country will be prepared to deal
with disasters and tragedies, including those that cause mass fatalities in a
better way as seen during the handling the recent terrorist attack in Nairobi
and other emergencies.  The regime will
clearly spelt out the management of such national disasters, set out standard
operating procedures including saving lives, securing the scene of crime and
evidence and managing the national reaction and mood  following such events. What the country current lacks is a comprehensive approach to
dealing with national disasters that would enable easy national mobilisation and reaction during such tragedies. A few of the lessons learnt from the DusitD2 Hotel attack was lack of awareness and helpful information to responders,
survivors and families about what to do, that would exuberate the situation,
endanger the hostages or minimise family anxiety and fears. You could see the
media, responders, and survivors and members of the public frustrating the
security team from cordoning off the scene of crime, for safety of the
hostages and for counter security/rescue operations. This time the state’s initial site and risk assessment and incident
command structure was on point, including controlling operational command
issues and information flow management. For successful investigation and
prosecution of suspects, it’s important for the scene preservation and
management. The private sector, especially property owners must join government
in investing in training of key people including private security guards on existing
incident protocol as first responders’  because  a number of people drawn from the general
public and uniformed police officers are usually the first to respond. The government should invest more in training and empowering
those likely to be incident commander are men and women who have the capacity
to implement a holistic, effective and safe response to the incident scene. The
law is required urgently when matters are still hot. The team working on
developing tools from dealing with mass fatalities also needs to finalise their
work for the good of the country. The current framework is inadequate.  The writer works at
the Media Council of Kenya and is journalists, safety and protection trainer