The rise of William Ruto from a nondescript Kanu operative to the kingpin of the Kalenjin is reminiscent of the epic movie where a centurion rose to become an indispensable general through wit, grit and sheer ruthlessness! Determined to rise more and noting the king was fast getting old and frail and had lost touch with the people, the general went for the king’s jugular, dethroned him and declared himself the king. He then embarked on a charm offensive to solidify support from his tribesmen. Full of zest and basking in the allurement of power, the rookie king desired fame beyond the precincts of his region. He reached out to other tribal kings, formed coalitions, which he ended at will whenever they no longer served his interests and in a well calculated and callous scheme, he rose to become ruler of the entire kingdom and lord over all tribal kings. That the rise of Ruto has been phenomenal is an open fact. Without a godfather and a background worth nothing to write home about, the chicken seller from Sugoi surmounted what seemingly was insuperable challenge, elbowed his way to the top in the political sphere and earned himself the title, “The Deputy President of Kenya!” Having greatly helped Uhuru Kenyatta to clinch the presidency twice, the DP won the President’s confidence, became his right hand man and a bosom friend he consulted widely in running the government. In a shocking turn of events though, Ruto now casts an image of a dejected deputy forlornly trying to please his boss. So, is Ruto a loyal deputy who fell prey to politics of treachery or is he a case of a spider entangled in its own web? While the answer to the question is arguable, I think DP Ruto is more of an architect of his own misfortune than a ‘victim’ of politics of betrayal. Let me explain. Enthralled by his new-found power and fame, the DP must have let his guard down and developed entitlement to Jubilee Party and the presidency; disgruntled voices in the party accused him of interfering with party primaries of April 2017 to punish those he considered disloyal to him as well as rewarding his friends. This alleged interference didn’t go down well with some vocal leaders within the party. In the State of the Nation address, the President pronounced himself on the Big Four agenda, the fight against corruption, uniting the people of Kenya and appealed to all leaders to stop politicking and work for Kenyans. Instead of rallying the entire government behind the President and his agenda, Ruto led his ‘Tangatanga’ team into early campaigns in total defiance of his boss. It’s this move that divided Jubilee into two camps: One supporting the President and the other team traversing the nation with the DP. Following the unusually long electioneering period of 2017 and the chaos that followed, the economy was hurting badly and needed some cushioning. To avoid meltdown of the economy, the President reached out to his political nemesis Raila Odinga and this culminated in the handshake. Ruto’s camp became frantic, created enemies where none existed and went on to wage wars with foes that only existed in their figment of imagination. When the President renewed efforts to fight corruption, Ruto’s allies complained that the fight was targeting their master and attempted to thwart the war on graft. When the President demanded that all state officers must undergo a lifestyle audit, the DP’s camp complained that the process was a witch-hunt against Ruto. When the President went for corrupt officials in the ministries of Energy and Agriculture, leaders from Ruto’s, Rift Valley backyard complained that the community was being singled out in the fight against corruption. Ruto’s camp might be convinced he has been left staring in the face of betrayal. A keen look into the genesis of his turmoil reveals a series of costly mistakes that the DP made in the past. His team must come to terms with the unpalatable truth that Ruto got too near to the fire and by the time he knew it he was already burning. Being the political mean machine and a master gladiator he is Ruto has made many foes who, in retaliation, opened many-front war against him. It was a matter of time before they could cut him down to size. With the political titan still gasping for air in the same government without whom it may not have existed, the chickens may have come home to roost for the ‘Hustler 001’. Is it too late for the son of Ruto to salvage himself from the quagmire and make a comeback? Time will tell.  