The fate of three hydropower dams in Rift Valley that are estimated to cost Sh90 billion shillings hangs in the balance after the work was suspended over corruption dealings. The DCI is finalising investigations into alleged bribery during tendering of the three mega projects. Survey and design work that had started at Itare dam in Nakuru and Arror and Kimwarer in Elgeyo Marakwet county has been suspended pending the outcome of the investigations. Several Cabinet secretaries have been linked to alleged bribery to facilitate the issuance of the tenders to an Italian company. The Sh40 billion Itare dam stalled after the Italian contractor pulled out. The construction of Arror dam will cost Sh38.5 billion while Kimwarer will be constructed at a cost of Sh28 billion. On Saturday, ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi called on President Uhuru Kenyatta to sack CSs implicated in the dam scandal. “Both Kenya and Italian governments must come out to explain what is happening with the affected projects which have stalled due to corruption,” he said. Read:Sack corrupt ministers, Mudavadi tells Uhuru Mudavadi was speaking in Lugari during a funeral service for his former personal assistant Henry Maloba. He said the troubled contractor had allegedly been paid more than Sh15 billion yet no work had started at the sites. Arror and Kimwarer are being implemented through the Kerio Valley Development Authority (KVDA). The National Land Commission (NLC) gazetted more than 6,000 acres of land to be acquired from more than 9,000 families for the projects. “Money has already been lost through graft and President Uhuru Kenyatta should not keep quiet on such issues while those involved are still in office,” Mudavadi said. Treasury CS Henry Rotich is among top-ranking officials who have already been questioned in connection with the two projects in Elgeyo Marakwet. Read: Tighten oversight role to end corruption, Mudavadi tells MPs Also read; NYS SCANDAL: It’s not corruption, it’s planned looting – Mudavadi Click here for the latest political news