Kakamega Homeboyz chairman Cleophas Shimanyula has highlighted a respectable finish in the ongoing SportPesa Premier League season as the first assignment for the newly appointed head coach Nicholas Muyoti. Muyoti decamped to Homeboyz yesterday from Nzoia Sugar, where he penned one and half year long contract with the club which had been under the stewardship of veteran striker Allan Wanga for past three weeks. The former Thika United coach was appointed alongside Peter Okidi as his assistant and he is set to steer the club which was rendered coachless after Ugandan Paul Nkata left last month amid match fixing allegations. Since the exit of Nkata, Wanga oversaw five matches where they started on a positive note beating Bandari 4-0 but registered draws against Vihiga United(1-1) and Chemelil Sugar (0-0) in the second and third matches. The club lost 1-0 to Kariobangi Sharks in their fourth match but made amends over the weekend, beating Tusker 1-0 courtesy of Wanga’s lone goal. According to Shimanyula, the duo will have task of guiding the club which is currently ranked eighth with 17 points to respectable finish this season. “We have acquired the services of Muyoti for the next one and half years and he will be assisted by Okidi. Their role is to better the results of the team and have a respectable finish at the end of the season. My office will support them.” Meanwhile, former Nairobi Stima coach Ibrahim Shikanda is reportedly heading to Nzoia to replace Muyoti. Meanwhile, newly appointed Green Commandos coach Fred Serenge (pictured) yesterday said they will need to do total overhaul if they are to achieve positive results going forward. Speaking in the wake of the team’s 7-2 loss against Shabana, Serenge who took charge of his first game termed the loss as an embarrassment. “I saw it coming. We shall suffer for the next four to five games before we start posting good results. This team is in a very bad shape,” said Serenge. “The players attitude and mental preparedness for this game is not good. Some players lack commitment and I must admit I have a huge task ahead.” Serenge said some players don’t deserve to be in the team. “This team need fresh blood. We need to go for experienced players because some of the players are not NSL quality,” he added. He is, however, confident the club currently languishing in the 19th position on the log, will bounce back. Commandos have seven points from 15 matches so far. “There is a lot of infiltration and sabotage from within the team but it’s only a matter of time before we address the problems,” said a dejected Serenge. His Shabana counterpart Andrew Kanuli rued the team’s inconsistency performance. “In the last nine matches, we have only won three. However, I’m happy with the seven goals we scored against Green Commandos,” said Kanuli, who is standing-in for suspended Gilbert Selebwa. He rued the absence of left backs Mike Simiyu and Michael Otieno, who are currently down with injuries. “We had a makeshift left back Evans Obutu in the Commandos game. I hope Simiyu and Ochieng will be fit for the next game against Thika United on Friday,” he said. He added: “We have not been scoring goals but I’m happy with the seven goals against Green Commandos.” In the 7-2 win, Anthony Ndolo scored a hat-trick with Dennis Onyancha scoring twice. Bob Mugalia and Daniel Murage scored a goal apiece. Brian Awadhi and Lilhanga Castro were on target for Commandos.