The 25th anniversary to celebrate the life and times of Kenya’s first Vice President, Jaramogi Oginga Odinga, kicked off on Saturday in Kisumu. Jaramogi, the pioneer opposition figure, died on January 20, 1994. A number of activities have been lined up for the two-day ceremony with a public session at the Grand Royal Swiss Hotel. East African Legislative Assembly (EALA) MP Oburu Odinga, Jaramogi’s elder son and Kisumu Governor Anyang Nyong’o will be among the speakers at the ceremony. AU special envoy Raila Odinga and Ahmed Muhdin will be the keynote speakers. Read: [PHOTOS] Raila hosts Muhoho Kenyatta,Tuju at Jaramogi's memorial service in Bondo Muhdin worked closely with Jaramogi for many years. The anniversary will end on Sunday with a major interdenominational prayer at St Stephens cathedral ACK, Milimani from 10 am. After prayers, several invited guests will preside over the ceremony at Jomo Kenyatta sports ground. A host of political leaders including governors, senators, MPs and MCAs across the country are expected to attend the celebrations. Last month, Raila led a small celebration in Bondo, ahead of the major one in Kisumu in remembrance of his father and son Fidel Castro Odinga. President Uhuru Kenyatta’s brother Muhoho Kenyatta, Jubilee Secretary General Raphael Tuju and various politicians from Nyanza region attended. Read also: Handshake led me to Raila's Bondo home, says Uhuru's brother Muhoho The major event was pushed to February after Nyong’o, the host, fell sick. He fell ill during the installation of Kisumu Metropolitan Diocese Archbishop Philip Anyolo at the Uzima University grounds. Nyong’o was rushed to Aga Khan Hospital following a discomfort before being airlifted to Nairobi for further treatment. Jaramogi’s family decided to hold the celebrations in Kisumu as Jaramogi was very instrumental in the development and rise of the city. Oburu said Kisumu is key to Jaramogi’s history as he was among the first people to put up storey buildings in the area, such as the African House and Ramogi House, against the wishes of colonialists. Click here for the latest political news