Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has said Ukambani governors can run President, but they should play within the rules. "They are part of us; they have a legitimate right to contest any political seats they wish to, so long us they play within rules of the game," he said. "They should not attack people, everyone has a constitutional right to contest for any position." Governors Alfred Mutua (Machakos), Kivutha Kibwana (Makueni) and Charity Ngilu (Kitui) skipped a Kamba leaders' convention at Kiamba Primary School in Matungulu, Machakos county, on Friday. Read: Ukambani governors skip Kalonzo meeting Kalonzo said no leader should incite his or her supporters against another leader. He said he is still committed to ensuring that the Kamba nation is united. “We are committed not only to unite Ukambani but the entire country,” said Kalonzo. Kalonzo denied claims he has been inciting Ukambani MCAs against their respective governors. A group of Ukambani leaders vowed to push for Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka’s presidency in 2022. “This nation knows and we all know that Kalonzo Musyoka is the Ukambani kingpin. We will put all our efforts behind him to ensure that he gets to State House,” Matungulu MP Stephen Mule said. He urged the Kamba nation to remain united. “I declare that the journey which we have started to State House is unstoppable,” he said. Makueni Woman Representative Rose Museo said, “Kambas have been in leadership for long, what we want is unity. Unity is what will make us move forward as a community." Former Machakos Senator Johnson Muthama said the meeting was not a Kamba, but Kenyan affair. “We have been brought here by all Kenyan communities; it all started when we were at the party leader’s father’s burial,” he said. Muthama said the meeting was to make a declaration that as the Kamba community, there is nobody who can oust Kalonzo from the kingpin post. “We are not shaken as a community. Some leaders have united to fight Kalonzo, Kalonzo is the Kamba kingpin. If they want to eject him, let’s meet at the ballot,” he said. Click here for the latest political news