The anti-corruption agency will on Monday question Tourism CS Najib Balala over an irregular contract awarded two years ago. The CS allegedly is said to have influenced the award of a contract to American Society of Travel Agents through direct procurement. The contract was in respect of provision of unspecified services during the American Society of Travel Agents expo  at Kenyatta International Convention Centre in February 2017. Balala will also shed light on how the ministry sponsored the conference to the tune of Sh100 million without authorisation. “To facilitate our investigation, you are kindly invited for interview and statement recording at our Integrity Centre offices on 18th  February, 2019,” read the EACC letter dated February 13. The Tourism CS has however put a brave face, downplaying the letter. He said there is nothing new as the investigation has been ongoing. Read: Sh100m contract: Balala refutes claims homes were raided as EACC issues summon “EACC inquiry on the American Society of Travel Agents expo that took place at KICC in February 2017 organised by ASTA – Kenya chapter has been an ongoing process with which the Ministry of Tourism has fully cooperated since the start,” Balala said. “Tourist arrivals from the USA doubled in 2018 with 225,000 visitors due to the partnership with the American Society of Travel Agents who are key buyers of Magical Kenya as a destination.” The CS dismissed media reports that EACC sleuths raided his homes in Nairobi, Vipingo in Kilifi and Mombasa on Monday and recovered crucial documents. But Balala tweeted on Friday that his legal team was handling the matter. “No raids have taken place at my house as claimed by The Standard Newspaper today (Friday). The journalist was aware prior to publishing the report of the same,” Balala said. The newspaper further reported that the Tourism CS contracted the US company during the 2016/2017 financial year to offer various services during the circuit of exhibitions held at the KICC. One event was held from February 23 to 26 in 2017. Click here for the latest
political news