Only the top four athletes at the national cross country trials this Saturday are guaranteed a place in Team Kenya to the World Cross Country Championships in Aarhus, Denmark next month. During the presentation of sponsors yesterday, Athletics Kenya (AK) revealed that the top four athletes across the line in the four individual races—10km senior (men and women), 8km junior men and 6km junior women will automatically get a ticket to the March 30 world show. In addition, AK vice president in charge of competition, Paul Mutwii, said the rest of the slots will be filled up by a selection panel chaired by veteran national team head coach Julius Kirwa. “As a federation, we have decided that the top four runners across the line will get a direct ticket to the World Championships while the remaining two places will be decided by panelist. It’s a wild card of sorts which will give potential medal prospects, who could be sick or engage on the material day, a chance to do duty for the country,” said Mutwii. “In addition, all runners participating on Saturday must belong to a region, an affiliate or an institution. We will therefore not admit individual athletes on the start line.” National cross country coach David Leting, who is also member of the Local Organizing Committee, said this well help them select the strongest team possible for the World Championships as they seek to not only defend their medals from Uganda two years ago, but enlarge on their haul. “Going by the start-list, big names will be running on Saturday meaning we are bound to pick a strong team with youngsters such as Rhonex Kipruto and Edward Zakayo expected to pull upsets,” said Leting. “Preparations are at an advanced stage with a world class course.” Abraham Mutai, AK Central Rift Chairman said: “As the host region, we are confident we will have a very successful event. I know the neighbouring counties—Nandi and Elgeyo Marakwet—have organised buses to ferry spectators to spice up to the championships.” Meanwhile, the event whose title sponsor is Lotto Foundation and dubbed ‘mini world championships’ yesterday received financial boost from Kenya Pipeline Company and Skyward Express. KPC’s foundation manager Bernice Lemedeket presented a cheque of Sh1.5 million while the airline operator Skyward gave out Sh700,000. “Sports is our thematic area that’s why we value this partnership with AK and going forward, we will always be available to offer the support,” said Lemedeket. Skyward’s Beatrice Manyala said the airline will offer air tickets to officials and winners of the event as well as supply water and gift hampers for the top finishers. The annual manager’s meeting will be held in Eldoret tomorrow followed by Anti-Doping Agency of Kenya (ADAK) seminar on Friday.