The 16 per cent VAT on pest control products hurt fresh produce exporters during the second half of 2018, pushing up production costs. Kenya Flower Council chief executive Clement Tulezi said this coupled with VAT refunds to a tune of Sh3.5 billion posed major challenges affecting the fresh produce industry “These challenges have compounded the many challenges Kenyan farmers face including numerous taxes, and levies at national and county governments, high energy costs as well as trade and phytosanitary restrictions in several potential markets,” he said at the release of sector’s 2018 performance. The Tax Laws (Amendment) Act, 2018, removed agricultural pest control products from the list of products that are zero-rated under the VAT Act, and subjected them to 16 per cent VAT. Prior to 2014 pesticides were zero-rated which changed under the VAT Act 2013 to exempt status until April 3, 2017, when they reverted to zero-rated. According to the Agrochemical Association of Kenya, pests and diseases contribute from 40 to 100 per cent crop loss if interventions by pesticides are not put in place. This could also see increased counterfeit pesticides in the market. Data by the horticulture sector report released yesterday shows export receipts from fresh produce grew 33 per cent to Sh153.68 billion last year compared to Sh115.32 billion recorded in 2017 showing increased resilience in the sector. “The sector has seen marked resilience and continued growth and huge potential which has enabled it weather various challenges such as the Brexit shock and fertilizer shortages which the sector faced,” Fresh Produce Exporters Association of Kenya Hosea Machuki said. Data by the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics shows, the volumes of fruit exported increased 34.28 per cent, cut flower export volumes stagnated while the volume of exported vegetables decreased by 4.42 per cent. This, while revenue from the three export commodities increased 42.55 per cent to Sh12.68 billion, 37.8 per cent to Sh113.16 billion for cut flowers while earnings from vegetables jumped 15.05 per cent to Sh27.68 billion. Speaking at the event, Trade PS Chris Kiptoo said the government was working on expanding the export market for the horticultural products besides the primary European markets. According to the report, Holland is Kenya’s biggest market for flowers and fruits and the UK is the biggest importer of Kenyan vegetables. “Already a delegation from China will be in the country soon to evaluate the avocado market and we are optimistic soon our farmers will start exporting to the Chinese market,” Kiptoo said.