One day a countryman going to the nest of his goose found there an egg all yellow and glittering. When he took it up it was as heavy as lead and he was going to throw it away, because he thought a trick had been played upon him. But he took it home on second thought, and soon found to his delight that it was an egg of pure gold. Every morning the same thing occurred, and he soon became rich by selling his eggs. As he grew rich he grew greedy; and thinking to get at once all the gold the Goose could give, he killed it and opened it only to find nothing. The story above has been used for ages to illustrate how greed can get one to overreach and end up empty handed. Is this happening in the country as Kenyans focus on amending the Constitution? Last week, I was shocked to learn of a plan by governors to request the Building Bridges team to include a proposal to remove their term limits. Article 180 ( 7 ) of the Constitution says “a person shall not hold office – (a) as a county governor for more than two terms; or (b) as a deputy county governor for more than two terms.” When the governors were applying for the position, they knew clearly what the job entailed and the constitutional term limits. Why then apply for a position only to change the terms mid-way to suit their selfish interests? What makes them so sure that they will be reelected? Seeking to remove the term limits is an immoral way of pushing the envelope and should not be allowed. It points to the governors’ greed for power and we can all conclude that all they are doing is planning how to stay in power and not how to serve their people. The governors should be servant leaders and focus on leaving a lasting legacy. A legacy that would make Kenyans want to give them even higher positions. But when you study their proposal carefully, it seems that the governors intend to strong-arm or blackmail those that they will negotiate with to push their amendment to the Constitution. The drafters of the Constitution envisioned a country where elected officials are accountable to the public, and put a cap on terms to ensure that those who get those crucial positions are able to focus on what is important - service delivery - not the establishment of chiefdoms. And in 2010, Kenyans overwhelmingly agreed with this proposal during the referendum and passed it. Already, there are Kenyans who say their current governors do not deserve another term or any other leadership position for those serving a second term. There are others, like Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana, that Kenyans are urging to take up an even bigger—President—because of what they have done. The two-term limit is in the Constitution to protect the interests of the mwananchi by ensuring that strongmen do not hold on to power. Where there are no term limits, strongmen use money and violence to stay in power. What these governors need to focus on is services to mwananchi. Construction of roads, improving water services and agriculture, keeping the environment clean, efficient services, construction of markets and creating a conducive business environment are what they need to focus on. Seeking to extend their stay in office by removing term limits is a joke carried too far. This greed is leaving a bad taste in the mouth of Kenyans and should not be entertained at any cost. Political and communications consultant. @MachelWaikenda