A 13-year-old girl from Ndura village in Gatanga sub-county, Murang’a has been admitted in hospital after allegedly being defiled by a police officer. The minor is said to have grown fond of the officer who took advantage of their friendship to defile her. The girl’s father, Jeremiah Alata, who is also a police officer at Kituamba police post expressed shock that his colleague defiled his daughter. Alata said the officer would creep on his daughter when she was left alone in the police quarters. He alleged that the officer sexually assaulted his daughter in the OCSs office and later in the toilets. “She told us that she was defiled several times and that he threatened to strangle her if she reported the issue to us,” Alata said. The last time she was defiled, he noted, was February 7 and the suspect would show her pornographic materials before defiling her. “He would also give her his phone and ask her to take photos of her private parts,” the irate father said. The girl finally opened up to her parents on Sunday after which she was taken to Thika level 5 for treatment and was admitted. The police officer wondered why the suspect is still roaming free and challenged his seniors to take action as the post-rape report came out on Monday. “I have been forced to relocate my family to my relatives out of fear,” he said. Her mother Beryl Otieno, bitterly explained how the officer told the primary school pupil that he wanted her to be his girlfriend. “He told her that couples engage in sexual intercourse and touched her indecently before defiling her,” Otieno said. She demanded the arrest of the officer saying she feared fatal confrontations between him and her husband. The hospital’s medical superintendent Patrick Nyaga confirmed the admission of the minor in the facility saying she is recuperating well and may be discharged soon. “We have put her under treatment since she was brought in and is improving well,” he said. Nyaga said preliminary findings indicate that the girl may have been defiled but are waiting for results of samples that were taken to the government chemist for testing. The county police commander Josephat Kinyua said swift action will be taken against the police officer. “The area OCPD and security officers are on the ground working on the case and I can assure locals that we have nothing to hide. An offense is an offense even when committed by an officer,” he said. Click here for the latest political news.