Money will never be enough! Our cries every day should not just be about salary increment and our stomachs, President Uhuru Kenyatta has said. Uhuru was referring to striking nurses and other public servants pushing for salary increments. Despite the court order suspending the strike for 60 days, more than 5,000 nurses across the country are yet to go back to work. KNUN Secretary General Seth Panyako has asked the health workers to remain firm and fight for their rights. Read also: Nurses' strike: Council of Governors wants stalemate unlocked "Sisi sote ambao tumeandikwa na wakenya kutoka mimi mpaka wa mwisho lazima tujue ya kwamba hatuwezi tu kuwa ya kwamba kilio chetu kila siku ni mshara na tumbo zetu mbele ya kuhudumia wakenya," Uhuru said. This is loosely translated to mean...All public servants that are employed by Kenyans starting with me to the junior employee, it is imperative that we know we cannot be crying about salary increments and our stomachs on daily basis instead of working for Kenyans. Speaking in Kisii county on Wednesday, Uhuru said public servants should go back to work and provide services to Kenyans. "Pesa haitoshi na hakuna wakati itatosha. Hatuwezi ati kila wakati, rais aongezwe mshara, naibu aongezwe mshahara. Mwananchi jameni ataponea wapi? Au ni namna gani... yawezekana? Hiyo pesa itatoka wapi?," he said. (Money is not enough and will never be enough. We cannot be complaining every day that the President and his deputy need salary increments. How will Kenyans benefit from these strikes? Where will the money come from?) Uhuru asked public servants to be patient and wait for the economy to stabilise before the issue of salaries can be addressed. "Let us serve Kenyans first, build the economy to be stable and grow it to its prosperity before we can demand high salaries," he said. He asked Kenyans to come together and fight corruption adding that it was a way of getting money that was laundered by certain corrupt officials. "Wakenya tuungane tupigane na ufisadi. Kwa sababu kuna pesa nyingi zinapotea. Na wafisadi pia tuhakikishe ya kuwa tumewafunga na ndiyo hiyo pesa iende kwa huduma kwa wakenya wote," he said. (Lets us all fight corruption because much money is lost to some people. Let us make sure that we jail them and take that money for the development of our country) Uhuru said corruption has no race, tribe, or community. Last month, the President affirmed that persons implicated in corruption will not receive state appointments until their names are cleared. Uhuru said he will ensure that lifestyle audits of state officers, from procurement officers to himself, are fast-tracked. More on this: Persons implicated in corruption will not get State appointment - Uhuru Read: Corruption: Uhuru issues firm orders on investigations