A new research project at Egerton University aims to increase locust farming in Kenya to foster food and nutrition security. The mass production of commonly available insects is also primed to produce animal feeds. Principal Investigator Professor Joshua Ogendo said the initiative seeks to optimise conditions for medium and large scale locust farming; develop animal feed using mature locusts, build capacity and develop dissemination manuals on locust farming and utilisation. The project funded by the East African Community (EAC) through its East Africa Science and Technology Commission (EASTC) has also brought on board Sokoine University of Agriculture in Tanzania, Makerere University of Uganda, University of Rwanda and International Centre for Insect Physiology and Ecology (ICIPE). “The increasing prices of fish meal are pushing research towards the development of protein from locusts. The feeds derived from insects are of high quality similar to fishmeal and soy-based feeds,” Prof Ogendo said. He says locusts can be consumed whole or milled into granular form adding they contain high levels of the amino acid methionine. From these, proteins, fats, chitin, minerals and vitamins could be extracted for mass food and feeds markets. Locust farming he added is easy because they are not labour intensive, need low technical and capital requirements. This makes them appropriate for many African countries. Further, land dependent agriculture is depleting forests. Climatic changes resulting to low yields of food crops, among other environmental factors he added, have also informed the search for alternative sources of protein for animal feed. Ogendo contended that locust farming will lead to less pollution and less space and time utilisation compared to animal sources. Insects too, are easy to farm since they occupy a small space compared to other protein rich feed stocks. “Locust farming can be done at household or industrial level. This can be a livelihood opportunity and in particular, individuals in developing countries can improve their livelihoods through engaging in various activities involved in delivering locust products. Engagement in these activities could offer employment and serve as an income source.” The research scientists on the programme include Dr Evans Obura, an Industrial Scientist at Ergerton University, Dr Chrysantus Tanga of ICIPE and Professor Gerald Misinzo from Sokoine University of Agriculture. Other investigators are Makerere University’s Professor Dorothy Nakimbugwe and Dr Didace Ndahimana from University of Rwanda. The researchers have developed an innovative system where households in arid and semi-arid regions of East Africa can rear locusts in a safe and confined environment by having their rooftops modified as locust cages. Obura reckons that with this new technology called- roof park technology- all roofs in Kibera, Lavington, Muthaiga or anywhere else can undergo very simple modifications where they will double up as cages for rearing locusts. A single cage may hold up to 2 million insects. The team is now experimenting rearing of the insects in Homa Bay county through the specially modified rooftops prior to piloting. They are also focusing on developing a tool kit that will make locust rearing technology available to small-scale farmers in Kenya, thus providing an affordable protein for food and animal feed. The researchers will work with the local community and other stakeholders to see the technology pick up to industrial level. To ensure locust foods and feeds are safe, farmers and industry players will be trained on sanitation and safety procedures used in the processing and storage of conventional foods and feeds. The team is also lobbying for development of comprehensive legal frameworks that will allow investment and lead to development of production enterprises and international trade in locust products. “Locusts are ten times more efficient than conventional livestock. They require less land, water and feeds. They are also not ravaged by many livestock diseases. We are also probing the impact of mass production of the insects on the quality and quantity of greenhouse gas emissions." The research has adopted environmental conservation concerns and safety standards throughout locust rearing and value addition chain. The allergic, microbial, chemical and parasitic hazards should be considered when developing products from insects. Health considerations are of paramount importance in this project. He added: “We have tested a species of African desert locust ((Schistocerca gregaria) carefully developed by ICIPE, to investigate its potential to become ‘mini-livestock’ for mass production for feed and food. The progress made is exciting and important, not just because the species already has demonstrated great potential for large-scale farming.”   