The passing on of legendary fashion designer Karl Lagerfeld on Tuesday at Paris has left an impact on the fashion world. His signature ponytail and dark glasses made him an instantly recognisable figure around the world. Industry heavyweights, including Italian designer Donatella Versace, issued heartfelt tributes. “Karl your genius touched the lives of so many, especially Gianni and I. We will never forget your incredible talent and endless inspiration. We were always learning from you,” wrote Versace on Instagram on Tuesday night. As a designer, he transformed the fortunes of Chanel, one of the leading names in high fashion. Away from his work, Lagerfeld made headlines for his love for a cat. Choupette, Lagerfeld's blue-eyed cat, lives in one of Lagerfeld’s many residences in Paris, eating off silverware and keeping company with “exceptional” guests like Caroline, Princess of Hanover. The blue-eyed beauty had belonged to model Baptiste Giabiconi, who left her with Lagerfeld during his travels in August 2011. Lagerfeld was so attached to the cat that he refused to return the "divine creature" to her owner. I never thought that I would fall in love like this with a cat," Lagerfeld said earlier in an interview. In 2015, he said in American TV that his little princess was the “most famous” and “richest” cat in the world, having made US$3 million in a year through endorsements with Japanese beauty brand Shu Uemura and a German car company. “She has her own little fortune," Lagerfeld told Vanity Fair magazine. "If anything happens to me, the person who will take care of her will not be in poverty, ” Lagerfeld said. On July 2017, Vera Sidika took to social media to blast people who've been hating on her shopping sprees. She had recently bragged about how much she bought a Chanel bag, indicating the price in different currencies. Well, she went ahead to shut the haters, throwing major shade that her bag can even buy them a decent car. She said, "Just a lil message for those who have been hating on my shopping sprees. Dear haters this Chanel small bag cost me £3,990 $5,200 Sh520,000, 10 million Tanzanian Shillings, about 1.8 million Naira." "In short, it can buy you a decent car. Yes I said it. Come beat me," Vera said. Read more:Vera faces fallout after bag cost brag Click here for the latest political news.  