  Any changes to the 2010 Constitution
should be done to enhance freedoms and justice, and lighten Wanjiku’s burden of
taxation, over-representation and rising cost of living. Amendments should not be made to create
jobs for leaders of the major ethnic communities, which include the Kikuyu, the
Luo, the Kalenjin, the Luhya and the Kamba. If the referendum is to accommodate a
parliamentary system, it thus must guarantee democracy, proportional representation
that will ensure every vote cast matters, social welfare that will feed
everybody, inclusivity in government and economy and nationalism with
which to replace negative ethnicity. If the Constitution is changed, it should
not be to protect ethnic inclusivity at the expense of democracy, which should
be preserved to give electoral victory to the candidate who wins elections
fairly and squarely. It should allow the loser to accept defeat gracefully
without the government thereafter denying him or her a job, business or any
other deserved service merely because they lost an election. To protect Kenya from dictatorship,
constitutional changes must ensure after completing their final terms in
office, the President and the deputy should not change the Constitution to
prolong their stay in office. The result of the changes must never
embrace and legalise Executive dictatorship as it did when Section 2A was
inserted in the old constitution in 1982. Given that some Kenyans such as David
Murathe have been threatening Kenya with benevolent dictatorship, the law
changes must not be used to facilitate that but to guarantee that Kenya will
never again fall victim to dictatorship, benevolent or not. The changes must also not allow
government to detain any person as now allowed in Section 51 of current
constitution, without charge or trial, contrary to constitution as happened
under old constitution. Constitutional changes need also to
clearly define leadership as an opportunity to serve, not steal, make money and
become rich. The President should also be prevented
from owning government as President [Daniel] Moi once did, or any governor to
own county government as private property they can share with friends and
allies. With the amendments, the president should only be
able to give parastatal boards, constitutional commissions and other government
jobs to people to serve, not be served and make money. Corruption also needs to be defined as an
economic crime and treason that should be punished by death. Only this can end
corruption. Constitutional changes must restore and reinforce Chapter Six of
the constitution to remove corruption from leadership, economy, sport and the Judiciary. The legitimacy of corruption derived from
the Report of Ndegwa Commission which allowed graft in government by permitting
top civil servants to do business with the same government they control and
direct must be removed. Constitutional changes should reduce
positions of electoral representation to half of the current posts. We must also criminalise and punish every
electoral offence that any electoral officer is found to be guilty of. Further, negative ethnicity needs to be
outlawed as ideology of our politics, political parties and coalitions. Ethnic
organisations that must be banned as soon as their endorsement of negative
ethnicity is discovered. Arrest and prosecution of persons who
instigate ethnic conflicts and propagate negative ethnicity among different
ethnic communities should be considered in these changes. Let’s also replace negative ethnicity
with nationalism. In the meantime, the 2010 Constitution must promote
nationalism as the ideology without which Kenyans could not have attained
independence and cannot today unite as one people. Unlike Yugoslavians, Kenyans must not
change the Constitution to accommodate rotational presidency among all Kenyan
communities. Those who get national leadership from whichever community, must
use it for the good of all Kenyans to eliminate the notion of “its our turn to
eat”. As nationalists, Kenyans must not change
constitution to entrench negative ethnicity camouflaged as diversity and
inclusivity.  