In 2015, President Uhuru Kenyatta declared war on endemic corruption that was spiralling out of control. Since then, the Head of State has displayed vigour compounded with threats to take action against officers implicated in graft. In that year, Uhuru made good his threat when he sacked some of his cabinet secretaries after tabling the famous list of shame. Among the CSs shown the door included Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu who was then Lands CS and former Transport CS Micheal Kamau. Others were Davis Chirchir then Energy CS, Kambi Kazungu - Labour, Felix Koskei - Agriculture, former Secretary to the Cabinet Francis Kimemia, Chief of Staff in the Deputy President’s office Marianne Kitany and former Transport PS Nduva Muli. Despite the sackings, from then till now, the country has been hit with more than 20 major scandals under Uhuru’s watch. Below is a status of some of the major scandals NYS1 & 2 In September 2015, the DPP asked Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru to record a statement over the disappearance of Sh791 million from the Ministry of Devolution and Planning. Waiguru was placed at the centre of the matter because she was then the Devolution CS. Close to a month down the line, Waiguru stepped down from her Cabinet position following pressure from the public and the opposition over her alleged role in the scandal. Read: List of suspects linked to Sh9bn NYS scandal In February 2016, she was cleared by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) on all charges. However, in March 2016, former EACC Chairman Phillip Kinisu said that there had been errors in clearing Waiguru. Others mentioned in the scandal included Josephine Kabura, Ben Gethi, Adan Harakhe, Mutahi Ngunyi and Kipchumba Murkomen. Before the dust settled, the institution was hit with another scandal involving the embezzlement of more than Sh9 billion. Some 54 suspects including former PS Lillian Amollo and former Director General Richard Ndubai were arrested. The case is still active in court. Maize scandal Another scandal that has rocked the country is the Sh5.6 billion maize scam. The rot at the National Cereals and Produce Board has been laid bare, exposing how well-connected cartels are minting billions at the expense of the Kenyan farmer. Just days after Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri kicked off a grand house cleaning at the NCPB, an internal ministry report has smoked out 18 unscrupulous traders suspected to have links with powerful people. The traders masquerading as farmers were vetted and rejected, rekindling memories of the maize scandal that rocked the country in 2010. Eight farmers, seven from the Eldoret depot, will pocket Sh873.2 million. They already had received Sh607,764,171. NCPB Managing Director Newton Terer resigned, as Kiunjuri cracked the whip. See more: Uhuru’s ‘main men’ on the spot over maize scandal Five top managers were suspended and 59 other officials put under investigation in the purge The scandal also involved subsidised fertiliser where cartels colluded with NCPB officers to repackage and resell fertiliser to farmers at exorbitant prices. This is not the first time the board has been hit by maize scams. In 2008, more than 800,000 bags of maize worth Sh150 million were allocated to briefcase millers as the country faced a maize shortage. The Kenya Anti-Corruption Commission investigated and recommended disciplinary action. Nothing happened. In May 2016, 22 board officers were suspended for stealing subsidised fertiliser. They were involved with traders who repackaged and sold government fertiliser to farmers at high prices. More than 10 NCPB top officials have been arrested. Afya House scandal In 2016, Lands Principal Secretary Nicholas Muraguri then Health PS and 13 other government officials were under investigation for possible collusion in a fraudulent scheme to purchase mobile clinics that were lying in waste in Mombasa. Muraguri, who was then Director of Medical Services, PS Khadija Kassachoom, and directors of Estama Investment Limited was among those who had been sued by the EACC to recover Sh800 million paid for the decrepit portable medical clinics. Firms in which Uhuru’s sister Nyokabi Muthama and cousin Kathleen Kihanya are directors were some of those that benefited from the Sh5 billion scandal. The case has since gone cold with both the President and the DP publicly defending Nyokabi and Kihanya. Read also: DP Ruto defends Uhuru's sister over Sh5bn Afya House scandal The Rio scandal Former Sports CS and current Kenyan Ambassador to Austria Hassan Wario dominated headlines in 2016 following the misuse of Sh55 million. The DCI received a report on alleged mismanagement of the money meant for Team Kenya which participated in the Rio Summer Olympics Games in 2016. Last year, Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji said Wario and former National Olympic Committee of Kenya chairman, the legendary Kipchoge Keino, have a case to answer over the scandal. More: DPP orders Hassan Wario, NOCK officials arraigned over Sh55m Rio scandal Haji approved the prosecution of the two and five other suspects who were implicated. Former Sports PS Richard Ekai and director of administration at the ministry Harrun Komen Chebet are among the key suspects named in the sleaze. Also facing charges are former NOCK secretary general Francis Kanyili, Kiptanui arap Soi (Chief de Mission), and Patrick Kimanthi (deputy NOCK Treasurer). The case is active in court. Kenya Power saga Kenya Power  officials were accused of fraudulently procuring faulty Sh400 million transformers between August 3, 2012, and June 12 MUWA Company was awarded the tender in which it supplied KPLC with 501 transformers as of May 22, 2015. Some 327 transformers failed on installation and had to be repaired. As a result, KPLC stopped the tender and MUWA sued Kenya Power. On May 5, 2015, KPLC cancelled the tender because of the poor quality of transformers supplied by PME, Shilchar Technologies Ltd. The company committed to paying Sh11, 300,000 and Sh32, 655,440 on account of the liquidated performance bond. Former Kenya Power MDs Ken Tarus and Ben Chumo, company secretary Beatrice Meso and Peter Mungai were suspended to pave the way for investigations. Also read: State lost Sh201m in Kenya Power scandal The case is active in court. However, despite all these mind-boggling scandals, Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji has said he may not be able to prosecute some suspects of corruption cases. Haji said the EACC has not provided his office with sufficient evidence to proceed with the prosecution. Click here for the latest political news