I have in the
past specifically identified the structure of the Executive as the source of
Kenya’s political instability. After President
Uhuru Kenyatta was sworn in for a second term amid boycott by Nasa, Raila
Odinga’s team vowed to conduct a parallel swearing in ceremony, a promise kept
on January, 30 2018. The country was
palpably tense and tinkering on the brink of civil war. Economic sabotage was
launched in the escalating political violence that invited police brutality in
Nasa strongholds. It was argued then that Kenyans needed to soberly debate the
organisation of government and review its performance to determine its efficacy. The handshake
between Raila and Uhuru helped create a conducive environment to engage in
objective debates regarding this sensitive subject. One year down the line, it
is now but given that the country will hold a referendum on a host of issues,
key among them the structure of government and system of governance. The Building
of Bridges Initiative is currently collecting views from interest groups.
Hopefully they will concretise these petitions into referendum questions that
Kenyans would vote for or against at the plebiscite. This exercise
anticipated in 2020 will have far-reaching ramifications on the political
landscape of the country. It will affect, in one way or the other, careers of
many prominent politics significantly. The postulations made here are not
entirely scientific and based on the assumptions that a) There will be a
referendum before the 2022 election (Former Nyeri senator Mutahi Kagwe thinks
otherwise), b) That Donald Trump and Xi Jin Ping will be presidents of the US and
China respectively, and c) That Uhuru, Raila, William Ruto, Gideon Moi, Kalonzo
Musyoka, Musalia Mudavadi, Hassan Joho and Wyclliffe Oparanya will be alive and
politically active as they are currently. STATUS QUO If Kenyans
maintain the status quo at the ensuing referendum, then Ruto will have his
match to State House a rollercoaster. He shall have vanquished the handshake
and Building Bridges Initiative proponents. He will have emerged as the
quintessential political kingpin for the country. The presidential system will
have been entrenched as the all-time preferred system of governance with all
its imperial tendencies. The Tangatanga team will have been emboldened and
rejuvenated to romp home at the 2022 General Election without much hindrance
and resistance. Alliances would
be crafted around the Ruto presidency and there will be established new
political order. The new order will be teaming with young and new entrants into
political brinkmanship and wheeler dealing. Uhuru’s legacy hinged on the Big
Four agenda shall be derailed and focus would shift to preparations for a
peaceful handover. He would then be more concerned with securing his peace and
comfort at retirement. Raila’s fortunes would have greatly dwindled but not
dimmed. He would still be the man with capacity to call out the incoming President
and offer some checks on his possible excesses. Kalonzo and Mudavadi will somehow
find relevance and might be included in the coalition of interests as the
general elections approach. Joho and Oparanya will have hard nut to crack
finding alternative routes to reinvent themselves and be relevant post-2022
polls. Otherwise, the duo might as well be staring the end of their illustrious
political careers.  CHANGE IN
GOVERNANCE SYSTEM On the other
hand, if the referendum goes as currently planned, then Ruto will have to
redouble his energies to be a serious factor at the general elections. Raila
and Uhuru will work out an alliance that will ensure both of them control the
next government either directly or indirectly. The presidential system shall
have been reviewed to allow for the expansion of the Executive. Most likely, the
parliamentary system would have more prominent role in the governance with a
Prime Minister. The Head of State will no longer exercise the role of the Executive. Kenyans should
take note that it does not mean that the President will not have executive
authority. The authority of the presidency will be exercised at the state level
and will generally involve superintending the functions of the three arms of
government — Parliament, the Executive and the Judiciary. It is unlikely
that Jubilee and ODM will merge into one party. Therefore, neither Raila nor
Uhuru will garner outright majority in their respective political quests.
Political prudence would thus demand that they enter into an alliance that
would enable themdetermine the outcome of the election. This they would do by
themselves as principals or through their trusted proxies. On this Kenyans
should listen to former Jubilee chairman David Murathe and Senator James Orengo
keenly. By then, Johnson Muthama and Isaac Ruto would have joined the club of
wise men. In this scenario, Ruto will lead the opposition forces and prepare
for his troops and resources for the 2027 duel of the century. Senator Moi, Kalonzo,
Mudavadi, Joho and Oparanya would be prominent players in this cast. REGIONAL
ECONOMIC GOVERNMENTS The other issue
that has gained prominence and traction in the referendum debate is structure
of devolution. President Kenyatta had to accede to the governors’ perennial
demands to increase the county remittances from the Exchequer. In order to rope
the county chiefs to support his Big Four agenda, he agreed to allow them play
a leading role in the referendum process. This led to closing of ranks between
Nasa and Jubilee at the last Council of Governors elections. This is where
Oparanya and Joho have their best opportunities to curve a niche for themselves
in the political constellation of Kenya. The argument was well elucidated by
Prof Anyang’ Nyong’o last weekend in his column in this paper. It has been
established out the experience of the last eight years of devolution that many
of the units are economically unviable. The counties have, therefore, been
grappling with the establishment of regional economic blocs as a response to
this challenge. However, there have been legal obstacles that are not easy to
surmount in the immediate future. Sub-nationalistic and jingoist considerations
have also come into play to sabotage these grand efforts. Kenyans have
variously expressed their dissatisfaction with the heavy burden of county
personnel. The county
development goals have been sacrificed at the altar of payroll financing. It is argued
that counties as presently constituted are bastions of nepotism, graft and lack
capacity to deliver on high impact development projects. Their
geographical conclaves impede the implementation of inter-county and crosscutting
development projects involving infrastructure, health, education and trade.
Then there is the mouthwatering matter of increased funding. These issues
need to be synthesised and settled at the referendum since devolution is a
protected provision in the constitution. If it is well executed at the plebiscite,
then Oparanya as the CoG chief will emerge as the next frontier of national
political leadership. Raila and Uhuru will have their way in the next elections
and with the counties behind them, craft the leadership of the next generation.
The referendum will have established regional governments with executive and
coordinating responsibilities. The country will welcome the regional premiers
as the new kids in the political bloc, bringing together a string of counties. The counties will have been reduced in terms
of stature, authority, power and glamour. Ruto will have to retreat and
reorganise his strategy for 2027. Moi, Kalonzo and Mudavadi will be key players
in the resulting coalition government. Muthama and Orengo will be the cogs on
which the wheels of UhuRai legacy will be spinning.