Patients in Bomet who need X-ray and other specialised scans will no longer have to travel to Nairobi. Longisa County Referral Hospital has installed a Computed Tomography (CT) Scan as part of government’s efforts to take specialised treatment closer to the people. The government’s Universal Health Coverage programme aims to save patients the hassle of travelling to Nairobi, Eldoret or Kisumu or flying to India. Unveiling the CT scan on Friday, Deputy President William Ruto directed the hospital to start offering the services within nine days. The DP said, “Our intention is to ensure all equipment in all our hospitals is modern state-of-the-art machines.” He was accompanied by Governor Joyce Laboso and Health Principal Secretary Peter Tum. FREE FROM EXPOSURE Installation of a CT scan in Busia County Referral Hospital will be ready by the end of next month. The government has installed CT scan machines in about 20 counties and aims to cover 37. Some of the CT centers include King Fahad Hospital (Lamu), Kakamega County Referral Hospital, Thika Level 5 Hospital, Iten County Referral Hospital (Elgeyo Marakwet), Narok County Referral Hospital and Voi Level 5 Hospital (TaitaTaveta). The ministry’s plan is to revolutionise diagnosis, especially non-communicable diseases such as cancer, at the earliest stage possible. Having a modern system to store patient’s data will improve follow-up and treatment. The CT scan centers have fully trained radiographers and radiologists and a full-time training centre. The government has assured patients that the new CT scan machines are free from exposure to dangerous radiation. The equipment includes automatic generators for power back-up, an Uninterruptible Power Supply (UPS), cloud imaging devices, laser and thermal printers, CCTVs and meters to measure radiation levels both patients and medics. The ground floor of the Kenyatta National Hospital national data centre will house CT machines and other equipment while radiologists will be accommodated on the second floor to interpret CT scan and MRI images. A CT or CAT scan uses computers and rotating X-ray machines to create cross-sectional images of the body. They provide more detailed information than normal X-rays. They can show the soft tissues, blood vessels, and bones. A magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan uses a trong magnetic field and radio waves to create detailed images of the organs and tissues within the body. MRIs and CT scans are non-invasive.