358
Kenya Kazi (KK) Security guards attached to the United
States Embassy in Nairobi have protested a move by the company's
management to unlawfully dismiss them for demanding over shs 1 billion
as overtime arrears. In a press statement, the guards claim that on January 23, the federal
government of the United States released $1.1 million to be paid
to them but the management has not affected the said payments  but
have instead opted to summarily dismiss them.  They claim that on March 26 2013, Justice James Rika delivered a ruling
awarding them overtime and commuter allowance among other awards. The company
on December 5 last year honored the decision of the court and only paid commuter arrears
totaling to an amount of shs 132,500 per guard. With the overtime arrears now pending the guards engaged the
management to give them a formula on how they are going to settle the pending
overtime allowance arrears. One of the guards representative Charles Waweru said that on January 23 this year a meeting was held between
the management of the company and the guards but a consensus was not reached
on the payment formula. this he said was because the management was non-committal on paying the
arrears which is being 'withheld for ulterior motive and bad faith'. "The company after the said meeting opted to initiate
disciplinary proceedings against us guards with the view of harassing and
intimidating us in order to continue withholding our  overtime arrears
payment amounting to a colossal sum of over shs 1 billion," said Waweru. He said the laid down procedures as provided for in the labor laws
were not followed in dismissing the 358 guards as the termination process was
conducted hurriedly in order to quell the continuing quest by the guards in
demanding for their dues. “we are now reliably informed that the ,management has
resorted to deploy unvetted and untrained guards to replace the 358 guards who
were specially trained and vetted thus meeting the specifications and
requirements of the US Embassy," he said. Waweru said it is unfortunate that the top brass of the US embassy despite
being fully aware of the injustice has chosen to remain silent on the issue
despite the security threats that their embassy and their diplomats are facing.  In 2002, KK was awarded a contract by the United States to
provide security services to its embassy headquarters in Nairobi and to the
official residences of diplomats. But the guards have had a history of protracted
disputes with the management of the KK security services Ltd over the aspects
of union representation, recognition of their union, payment of overtime and commuter
allowance dues, Collective Bargain Agreement among many other issues. 