Viagra is among the most ordered drugs on Kenya's online pharmacy platforms. This is because the platform provides anonymity. Viagra is the brand name for sildenafil citrate and is used to treat erectile dysfunction. The system commonly known as ePharmacy helps in the distribution of drugs to those who have no access to them, but need them. They place an order online and the drugs are delivered to their doorstep through channels such as G4S and other offline partners. However, due to strict guidelines stipulated by the Pharmacy and Poisons Board over the selling of medicines and drugs regimes over the counter, not all drugs and medicines can be purchased from the portal. Read: Sasa Living: Doctors warn viagra could have irreversible damage to your eyes According to Pfizer director of regional projects Patrick Holt, the business has thrived because of Kenya's mobile connectivity and internet speeds. "Kenya leads in phone internet traffic globally, faster internet in Africa and the Middle East, excellent WiFi hotspots and fast home delivery services. Presence of too many unregulated online pharmacies means everyone should be able to tell what is fake from what is genuine," Holt said. Kenyans have however been warned to be wary of such sites. "This is a transnational organised crime. You will think they are taking care of you and yet you are susceptible to hacking because all your data is stored in their order profiles, hence may sell your data," he said. The Head of Drug crime investigation and enforcement at the PPB Dennis Otieno while speaking to the Star said they have sent a request to the Communications Authority to monitor and shut down all suspicious and malicious sites. He cautioned Kenyans to be very careful when using the epharmacy platforms. "I have to admit the network is dynamic, when you close a site they will open with a different name thus needs a multiagency approach. You might either get an overdose, no prescription and there are no doctors to give advise," Otieno said. He said the right information at the right time will go a long way in saving those who would otherwise become easily vulnerable. Also read: Babies die after mums given Viagra in Dutch trial Click here for the latest political news