Iran has dismissed reports that they want to sneak out two Iranian terror suspects. The Ambassador Hadi Farajvand also refuted claims that he was involved in smuggling gold from Congo. “I can never recommend Iran companies to do gold business in Kenya since many people in Nairobi's gold business are not straight. You pay but they will never supply gold,” Farajvand. “In fact, Iran is an exporter of gold.” The ambassador was speaking to the media at the embassy headquarters in Nairobi. He was responding to media claims that Iran wanted to rescue Ahmad Mohammed and Sayed Mousavi who were arrested in Nairobi with explosive substances in 2012. Mohammed and Mousavi were jailed for life by a magistrate’s court but the High Court reduced it to 15 years. The Appellate Court later freed them after an appeal but the DPP moved to the Supreme Court requesting a review of the verdict. The Apex Court ordered them to be held pending the verdict. It has not yet been delivered. Read: Supreme Court to rule on acquittal of two Iranians convicted of terrorism “We know the case is at the Supreme Court and we will wait for the verdict. We know there are laws in Kenya and we will respect and follow them,” the ambassador said. The ambassador said the reports in media against him were being pushed by people who wanted to extort him. He said he did not know them well. “I am a victim of being good to the government. It has spoilt my name and affected our stay in Kenya. We should focus on the development of Kenya which is important to Kenya,” he said. The ambassador yesterday said that he was approached by two people who wanted to be bribed so that they can release the terror suspects. “We met and they told me they came to see us on behalf of the ministry. I told them about these people who were talking badly against the government officials because we have a good relationship with Kenya. Unfortunately, it turned against me,” he said. He challenged Kenyans to take advantage of the opportunities in Iran to empower themselves. Click here for the latest political news