Five leading media houses have raised concern over media data published by Kenya Audience Research Foundation. Radio Africa Group, Nation Media Group, Kenya Broadcasting Corporation, Capital Group Limited and Standard Media Group gave KARF seven days to withdraw and cease further publication of media data posted last year. In its research, KARF noted that majority of Kenyans preferred traditional media as their first source of information. According to the study, the average number of Kenyans who consume media daily is 16 million; 94 per cent of which consume TV, radio and print while only 33 per cent consume new media but not exclusively. It indicated that 64.8 per cent of Kenyans value Radio, 30.6 per cent TV and 1.6 per cent prefer newspapers. Only 1.9 per cent go online, 0.8 per cent on social media while the rest read magazines. More on this: Kenyans still prefer traditional media, says Report But in a statement on Thursday, the five owners expressed their displeasure and disappointment at the continued release of 'patently unreliable' and falsified media data. "In view of the failure by KARF to redress on these long-running concerns and the failure to put out credible research data we have lost faith in KARF data," the statement read. "We further request that KARF as currently constituted be immediately disbanded and an all-inclusive process of establishing a more reliable and accurate research process and function be commenced immediately." The owners demanded that KARF should take action failure to which they will immediately commence a process of identifying an alternative independent and credible industry research process. "In all these cases no serious attempt has been at fixing and or addressing the fundamental and unacceptable flaws in the research," read the statement. KARF collects data on media consumption habits on a daily basis from a fixed panel of 3,000 Kenyans. The panel is nationally representative of the media consuming population aged 15 years and above. Click here for the latest political news