Two families of a Dutchman whose body was recovered from a sceptic tank in 2016 are involved in a tussle over his property. Jacobus Van Der Goes was allegedly killed by an employee and his body stashed in sceptic tank in his Nyali home. His body was recovered months later wrapped in a mattress and bedsheets. Also recovered were the murder weapons. His Kenyan ex-wife and firstborn daughter are on each other’s neck over the multimillion-shilling properties he left behind. Daughter Ingrid Van Der Goes and husband Rene Adrianus claim to have been appointed the administrators of the properties in a will left by Jacobus while ex-wife Agnes Nanjala claims he died intestate. The properties include a palatial home in Nyali, a residential flat in the Netherlands, a vehicle and several banks accounts in Kenya, the Netherlands and the UK. On the court documents, Ingrid claimed she was granted execution powers of the estate in her father’s will dated November 3, 2009. Ingrid said the objection by Nanjala was incompetent and an abuse of the law. She said the ex-wife was guilty of non-disclosure for failing to inform the court of other court decisions such as their divorce. She said Nanjala’s sole intention was to benefit twice, having previously benefited during the matrimonial and divorce proceedings. She further told the court that Nanjala and her step-sister were paid a lumpsum by her father. Ingrid further said her father disputed his paternity of Nanjala’s daughter, citing it as the reason she was left out as a beneficiary. “Nanjala and her daughter are not mentioned as beneficiaries in the will as there was final settlement of the matrimonial property and her maintenance during the divorce process,“ she said. Nanjala objected the existence of a will. She said a ruling on their divorce by Justice M.K Ibrahim made her and her daughter dependants and beneficiaries of the deceased’s properties. “Despite the lawful entitlement, Ingrid and her husband have failed to consider our interests,” Nanjala said She further accused Ingrid of concealing most of the assets which include more than 10 bank accounts and houses in the Netherlands. “The purported will only benefit Ingrid and her husband and shockingly excludes the sons of the deceased,“ she added. Having registered her objection to having Ingrid as the executor, Nanjala has 14 days to file a grant of representation by herself. Through a notice by Mombasa law court registry, Nanjala and her daughter have two weeks to file a grant petition alongside a supporting affidavit seeking to be an administrator in the estate, failure to which a grant will be made notwithstanding her objection.