Technical, Vocational Education and Training graduates will benefit from the Sh500,000 to Sh1,000,000 housing projects that the national government will be rolling out this year, TVET Principal Secretary Kevit Desai has said. Speaking before inspecting facilities at the Busia Vocational Training Centre on Friday, the PS said the move to enlist the services of students who pursue TVET courses in the housing scheme was reached after a meeting between his Ministry and the National Housing Corporation. “Apart from generating skills for national development, TVET is also key in the realisation of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four Agenda to provide world-class skills for irrigation, construction, maintenance of health facilities, entrepreneurial skills for trade and investment and manufacturing,” he said. Read: State to pay full fees for TVET students, extra cash for upkeep He said the Ministry will introduce Competence Based Education and Training in TVETs to tackle rising unemployment in the country, emphasising those technical skills, national values and heritage will be inculcated. “Kenya has the power to reorient itself towards sustainable development using TVET as a vehicle for socio-economic and technological development,” Desai said. The PS thanked the Busia County Government for the prudent use of the Sh63million conditional grants to Vocational Training Centres. Desai urged Busia County to woo students from neighbouring Uganda for TVET courses saying Kenya is an educational hub in the region. Read also: State to give TVET students bursary He added the government was committed to economic development of Busia and Kenya as a whole. Busia Education and Vocational Training executive John Mwami assured the PS that any future grants to the county will be used well as per the guidelines from the ministry. Chief Officer for Vocational Training Daniel Mogoria urged the PS to complete the ICT laboratory the ministry financed to enable students to benefit from Information Technology. See more: Education gets Sh441bn as state targets growth of TVET, ICT in schools Click here for the latest political news