The special report by the Treasury has painted a sad state of affairs and clearly informs us there is need for keen inspection and implementation of government projects. It is not only the national government projects that have stalled but also those at the counties. However, let me point out that all countries in the world operate on budget deficits, including the big economies such as the US and China. With all their might, they still have deficits because revenue is never enough. Currently, there is a grandstanding in the US because Democrats feel there is no money to fund projects such as the Mexico border wall. We only live on optimism and ambition and that is why you see the government presenting a national budget of Sh3 trillion and hoping it will get that money in the course of budget implementation. Let me point out that I do not hold brief for the Treasury but I think I can justify the situation we are in on cash flows. Remember Treasury gave us budget estimates hoping they will be netting 16 per cent from fuel VAT. That 16 per cent never saw the light of day because we compromised to eight per cent in the National Assembly after a huge uproar from Kenyans. The estimated revenue target, therefore, fell short and that is why it has affected some of these projects. Money is, however, not the only cause of stalled projects. Some are stalled because of court injunctions, issues such as compensation in the case of SGR, where they need to verify lists and valuations of those to be paid. On that, I am sure the government is to blame. Where money is needed, I am sure those concerned, including Parliament — National Assembly and the Senate — the county assemblies, are looking for ways to raise that cash. Nonetheless, from an oversight perspective, it is clear there is an urgent need to for a special audit to be conducted on these projects to ascertain the correct position: What is the root cause for them to stall? Parliament as well as the county assemblies through various House committees should oversight the implementation of these projects to ensure taxpayers get value for their money. Koech is the MP for Belgut and he spoke to the Star Click here for the latest political news