Mandera is planning to build shelters in all its subcounties to reduce maternal mortality rate. Health executive Mohamed Eda said expectant women will be housed in the shelters for the last month of the pregnancy. The aim is to have all mothers at high risk of having poor pregnancy outcomes spend their last weeks before delivery under proper care. Such women include those who have had miscarriages, have a low-lying placenta and mild pre-eclampsia or high blood pressure. Women who have undergone two Caesarean sections in the previous deliveries will also be housed in the shelters. "These women are likely to lose their life or that of their baby if not given proper care," Eda said. Mandera is one of the counties with the highest maternal mortality rate. The figure stood at 3,795 per 100,000 births in 2013. It has improved to 500 for every 100,000 deliveries by 2018. “Our target is to have less than 100 deaths per 100,000 births. This is achievable if we remain committed and focused,” the executive told the Star in an interview on Sunday. Mandera is inhabited by mostly pastoralist communities. Many women still prefer to deliver with the help of traditional birth attendants. They say hospitals are too far away from their remote villages. Eda says the groups accounts for the largest percentage of those who die after developing complications. The county has shortened the distance by hiring skilled delivery attendants and posting them to facilities in the villages. "We've decided to put up maternal shelters as one way tackling the current situation," Eda said. Last year, the county started tracking maternal deaths with the help of local administrators. In 2013, there were only 33 hospitals in Mandera. Only 13 were offering services. The county has renovated all the hospitals, supplied drugs and built another 57 facilities to boost healthcare. More health workers have also been hired. There were only 154 health workers in 2013. The county now has 864 health workers spread across the hospitals. Eda said they will soon tour the facilities to identify challenges to be addressed. The county is also building a comprehensive maternal care unit. “It will be a one stop hospital with delivery rooms, theater, new born units, anti-natal and post natal and surgical rooms,” he said.