Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti lacks expert knowledge on matters relating to the Arror and Kimwarer dam projects, Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen has said. In a personal statement to the Senate on Thursday, Murkomen said the DCI fell short of telling investigators that they were wasting their time on the multi-billion alleged scandal. "Mr Speaker Sir, I urge the DCI that before he embarks on any investigations of this nature, they should engage experts with the necessary knowledge on these types of contracts and how such projects are implemented," he said. The Senator also claimed that the alleged scandal is being weaponised as a tool for 2022 political fights. "Politics should be done politically by politicians and such other matters of the state such as fighting corruption and national development should be done objectively," he said. He said Kenyans and leaders should desist from using public office and resources to fight political wars. Although he did not mention any individual, Murkomen seemed to defend Deputy President William Ruto after his aide was roped in the Sh21 billion dam scandal which is under active investigations by Kenyan authorities. Ken Osinde is on the DCI radar after a company he is associated with is suspected to have played a role in the multi-billion tenders for construction of Kimwarer and Arror dams in Elgeyo Marakwet county. More on this: Ruto aide linked to Sh21 billion dam scandal "It is unfortunate that the project is being weaponised...It saddens me when I see the labelling of Kenyan citizens based on their ethnic identity as corrupt and the massive operation being mounted against one individual’s political ambitions," Murkomen said. Most Mt Kenya politicians are noncommittal about supporting Ruto in 2022. Despite Jubilee’s much-touted unity during the election, a number now say they will announce their position at the ‘right time’. Read: Ruto’s 2022 bid causes a stir in Mt Kenya Murkomen said the project can neither be delayed nor postponed adding that "It is critical and urgent." "We demand equal treatment in the investigation of all projects in all sectors and in all counties to be treated in a similar manner," he said. "A hyena wants to eat the goats of Elgeyo Marakwet County and as the father of the county I can’t allow the negative and selective characterization of development projects in my county." Early Thursday, Ruto denied reports that the Sh21 billion allocated to Arror, Kimwarer dams has vanished. Speaking when the Judiciary released its annual report on Thursday, Ruto said the figures being reported to have been stolen were misleading. "You' have heard that the government has lost about Sh21 billion which is a flat lie! The money in question is about Sh7 billion, and for every coin that has been paid, we have a bank guarantee," he said. Read: Flat lie? DP Ruto denies loss of Sh21 billion in dams scandal Click here for the latest political news 