The more things change the more they remain the same. But the appropriate expression for a community stranded about 400km southwest of Nairobi, is the more the times change the more things remain the same. The passage of time has made no difference for the transformation of this community, surviving on the leeward side of national development. On a dry, dusty, day in early February of 1973, development arrived in their dusty land. It came in a parcel, with glossy yellow and red ribbons wrapped around the prized package. A helicopter had delivered then Vice President Daniel Moi among a people who rarely hosted leaders of such eminence. Moi came to launch development for the community between Otaro, Ngeta and Lieta primary schools in Karachuonyo constituency. Moi’s grey immaculate suit flapped as he alighted from the helicopter. Standing erect, the future president was wielding his trademark rungu. He was covered in deep yellowish brown dust, a reminder the community wanted development, other than what e he had delivered. Moi came to ‘launch’ an airstrip, between West and Central Karachuonyo divisions of what was then South Nyanza District. He also brought greetings from President Jomo Kenyatta. Moi was from the seat of power, from where development was dished out to communities without consulting them. This was 37 years before devolution. Children poured from the villages to welcome development. The old, from Kanjira location, hosting the airstrip, and Kamser location, the neighbour to the east, arrived. They sang songs of hope. Then Karachuonyo MP, Okiki Amayo, should have been a comedian had he lived in a different era. He was hawkish, rowdy and abrasive —a n archetypal party politician. Amayo was then an agent of development. The MP was hosting the VP during the launch of Otaro Airstrip. Villagers called the murramed ground, in the middle of nowhere, an airport. They could not tell the difference. Moi’s military chopper was the first and the last to land at the ‘airport’, which is today a dry playground for children herding cattle. Forty-five years later another VIP of Moi’s prominence came to K’Ojwang’ village. On Christmas Eve last year, Deputy President William Ruto, a 2022 presidential aspirant, visited the village. Ruto, like Moi 45 years earlier, was delivering packaged development from Nairobi. The DP came eight years into devolution to find the village worse than Moi left it in 1973. He came to launch a road — Kanyadhiang’-Pala-Alara-Kadel — carrying the name of a pioneer freedom fighter. The road defiles the legacy of the Great Ojijo Oteko, of Nairobi’s Ojijo Road, which links Westlands and Parklands. The contractor is doing shoddy work on the African Development Bank-funded projected. Engineers and the financiers are invited to inspect this road, which is peeling off before it is 20 per cent done. It demonstrates how public funds are wasted. Executive Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i should visit to confirm this. The DP had another early Christmas present: ‘Last Mile’ powering of villages. The VIP lit a bulb for the cameras at Pala market. The village is still in darkness, four months after the DP left. The village needs roads and electricity, but it needs water more. The DP’s package was great; what he did not bring is greater. But he can return to talk about what this community needs most. On May 2 last year Environment CS Keriako Tobiko sent a delegation from the Forest Service, Nema, Warma and others, to this village. But the mission, to establish the devastation of dry gullies, was diverted. A culvert had broken along Kadel-Kandiege road in West Karachuonyo. Tobiko was last heard of during the tree-planting season of 2018. One year later, the gullies have degenerated. The challenge of dry gullies holds the key to water, food security, manufacturing, and environmental regeneration. Two of the President’s Big Four Agenda are covered in this potentially transformative intervention. There are potential development partners on the climate change project, but only on ministerial invitation. kendowuonkendo@gmail.com