The eagerly anticipated Kenya Rugby Union (KRU) elections are slated for March 20. According to a press release from the union, the election which will also double up as Annual General Meeting, will usher in a new chairman with incumbent Richard Omwela having served the mandatory two terms. The candidates for the chairman’s position include former vice chairman Sasha Mutai, current secretary general Oduor Gangla, former Kenya Rugby Union board director Asiko Owiro and director Ezekiel Owuor. Four director seats are also expected to be filled with Ray Olendo and Ian Mugambi defending their seats. However, the election will fill the vacant director seat left by Sylvia Kamau who was appointed chief executive officer of the union last month. Those who have shown interest in the director seats include former Kenyan international Ken Thimba, former KRU directors Musa Ndale and John Kilonzo and former Kenya Lionesses team manager Sarah Otieno. Those elected will serve a four-year term and not two years as it has been the case. The agenda of the Annual General Meeting will include confirmation of minutes from the last meeting held last year in March, board report for 2018 and adoption of the audited financial statements for 2018 as well as appoint new auditors. Elsewhere, Impala have shot to the top of the KRU women’s festival after winning the second leg held at the KCB Sports Club. Impala beat Mwamba 15-5 in the final. The Sarries have 41 points, five ahead of Mwamba with Homeboyz third on 34 points. Nakuru are fourth on 31 points while Northern Suburbs are fifth on 26 points. The festival will now take a weekend break before returning for the third leg at the RFUEA grounds off Ng’ong road on March 3. The final two legs will be held at the Impala Club and Nakuru on March 17 and 31, respectively. The eagerly anticipated Kenya Rugby Union (KRU) elections are slated for March 20. According to a press release from the union, the election which will also double up as Annual General Meeting, will usher in a new chairman with incumbent Richard Omwela having served the mandatory two terms. The candidates for the chairman’s position include former vice chairman Sasha Mutai, current secretary general Oduor Gangla, former Kenya Rugby Union board director Asiko Owiro and director Ezekiel Owuor. Four director seats are also expected to be filled with Ray Olendo and Ian Mugambi defending their seats. However, the election will fill the vacant director seat left by Sylvia Kamau who was appointed chief executive officer of the union last month. Those who have shown interest in the director seats include former Kenyan international Ken Thimba, former KRU directors Musa Ndale and John Kilonzo and former Kenya Lionesses team manager Sarah Otieno. Those elected will serve a four-year term and not two years as it has been the case. The agenda of the Annual General Meeting will include confirmation of minutes from the last meeting held last year in March, board report for 2018 and adoption of the audited financial statements for 2018 as well as appoint new auditors. Elsewhere, Impala have shot to the top of the KRU women’s festival after winning the second leg held at the KCB Sports Club. Impala beat Mwamba 15-5 in the final. The Sarries have 41 points, five ahead of Mwamba with Homeboyz third on 34 points. Nakuru are fourth on 31 points while Northern Suburbs are fifth on 26 points. The festival will now take a weekend break before returning for the third leg at the RFUEA grounds off Ng’ong road on March 3. The final two legs will be held at the Impala Club and Nakuru on March 17 and 31, respectively.