Three years after Naivasha cemetery filled up, Nakuru county government is yet to buy another parcel of land leading to a crisis. The residents said bodies had to be ferried to either Longonot or Gilgil towns kilometers away affecting them financially and emotionally. According to the chairman Naivasha Professional Association (NPA) Eskimos Kobia, the issue had been forgotten noting that tens of families were suffering. He added that the former and the current county top leadership had promised to address the matter but this did not happen. “Mourners are undergoing double suffering as they have to raise extra money to ferry the bodies of their loved ones to Gilgil or Longonot,” he said. Addressing the press in Naivasha, Kobia said the Longonot cemetery did not have washrooms or water further inconveniencing mourners. “The county has focused on other development projects but forgotten cemetery land which is also very critical for this town,” he said. Speaking earlier, incoming Chief Officer of Public Health Samuel King’ori said land owners in Naivasha and Nakuru had failed to respond to adverts by the county seeking over 30 acres to be converted into a cemetery. “The available land is either too expensive or unfit for a cemetery and we foresee a crisis in terms of cemetery land in the coming years,” he said. Meanwhile, residents of Karai in Naivasha have petitioned the county government to upgrade or relocate the area garbage dumpsite. They said the dumpsite had become an eyesore emitting poisonous gases with tens of wildlife and livestock dying after eating waste from the unfenced site. One of the area leaders James Mwaniki said their only hope lay in the county government as the problem was now getting out of hand. “We have petitioned the county government to relocate this dumpsite or rehabilitate it as has affected all the operations in this area,” he said. Mwaniki noted that the problem gets worse during rainy seasons as poisonous waste is washed into their farms and the nearby Lake Naivasha.