COUNTY RESIDENTS NEED CIVIC EDUCATION ON NATIONAL
GOVERNMENT PROJECTS- OJAAMONG  Busia Governor Sospeter Ojaamong wants the National
Government to undertake civic education to county residents on its projects
saying some counties have taken credit on such projects to gain undue mileage. Speaking in an interview on Radio Citizen hosted by Vincent
Ateya on Thursday, the Governor said issues of road construction in urban towns
is the responsibility of the National Government through the Kenya Urban Roads
Authority (KURRA) and Kenya National Highway Authority (KeNHA). “The National Government should educate residents on
projects it’s undertaking. Most highways in major towns in Western region
including Kakamega and Kisumu are World Bank projects and yet credit goes to
County Governments. The National Government also needs to come clear on the
Northern Corridor B road linking Kisumu and Uganda. The road especially in
Busia County is narrow and dusty  with Kenya
National Highway Authority doing nothing to expand it, thus to the disappointment
of  County residents who think it’s the
duty of my Government to  maintain the
road,” he said. Governor Ojaamong said his government is not responsible for
the bad road from Korinda to Busia town; that is the responsibility of KeNHA
and nobody else is allowed according to the law to carry any repairs on it. He added that the British Government donated Ksh200million
towards the expansion of the road to Korinda but the exercise is at the design
stage,” he said. The Governor said KURRA has failed to deliver on its mandate
of undertaking the tarmacking of urban roads in the County, adding that his
Government was forced to tarmac about 10km of roads in Busia and Malaba, and renovated
some, making them all passable and accessible. The Governor said Busia Town has been elevated to
Municipality status and qualifies for Ksh100m annual funding from the World Bank
to beautify the town; he further stated that Busia has got new water technology
from Germany, using solar power to pump water from boreholes, and the county
residents are not suffering from water shortage during this period of drought
like other counties. Imbalance in trade has deteriorated tax collection in the county;
this is because most of the trade has shifted to the neighbouring country of
Uganda. He added that Kenya - Uganda boarder is a free market hence everybody
can freely trade since they are all from the same society. Photo: Busia Governor Sospeter Ojaamong during live
interview on  Radio Citizen  with presenter Vincent Ateya on Thursday.   