Drama unfolded in the Embu county assembly after a Jubilee MCA claimed Deputy Speaker Steve Munene has taught ward reps the “bad manners” of taking assembly disputes to court. Nominated Jubilee MCA Margaret Kariuki and Munene, who are known political enemies, tore into each other on in the House on Thursday. Munene had reprimanded Kariuki for suing the assembly after she was removed as a member of the Budget and Appropriation committee last year. She withdrew the case following pressure from other MCAs. MCAs accused Governor Martin Wambora of being behind the court case that they say frustrated their operations. Some 20 ward representatives expressed displeasure with nominated MCA Kariuki who sued the county assembly in October. They claimed the governor colluded with Kariuki to file the case. Wambora denied the allegation. The ward representatives, residents and boda boda operators marched to the High Court in Embu, shouting slogans against the governor, Kariuki and the court. Speaking on Thursday during a session chaired by Speaker Josiah Thiriku, Munene deplored suing the assembly whenever a member was aggrieved. He asked MCAs to instead use alternative dispute resolution mechanisms. Munene said members must pledge their full allegiance to the assembly and avoid attempts to frustrate House business. Munene said it was tantamount to “caning a cow that you expected to give you milk.” The House burst into laughter when Kariuki stood on a point of order to state that she was not aware that an MCA could sue the assembly but learnt such “bad manners” from Munene. The Deputy Speaker sued the assembly last year after he was kicked out of his seat before withdrawing the case under pressure. A bitter exchange ensued between the two following Kariuki’s claim. Speaker Thiriku however ruled that the words Kariuki used were unacceptable and forced her to withdraw them and apologise. She however replaced the words with “ill-advised manoeuvres.” he said. ” But Kariuki was again forced to apologise after Ruguru Ngandori MCA Muturi Mwombo said the phrase was disrespectful to MCAs and demeaning to the House. Kariuki nonetheless maintained that Munene had no moral authority to reprimand any MCA for suing the assembly when he had done exactly the same thing. She said the Deputy Speaker was trying to impede her attempts to obtain justice through constitutional means. They were contributing to a motion proposing the inclusion of Nominated MCA Sicily Njiru, who is a pastor of the National Independent Churches of Africa, into the Powers and Privileges committee after a position fell vacant. \\