JUST what is happening at Nyayo House? Well, Administration Police officers manning the building that houses the Immigration department are on the prowl. A mole has intimated that the officers are harassing, arresting and demanding bribes of up to Sh5,000 from desperate members of the public. They threaten to prefer idling and terrorism links charges for those they arrest. Those who fail to give out the bribe are locked in GK vehicles and driven around town. The most affected are the members of the Somali community, who are now appealing to the Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet to intervene and save them from the incessant demands for cash. ***** AN OCS in South Rift whom we recently put on the spot for his insatiable greed for money is at it again. The officer is at war with traffic officers from his station after releasing a vehicle with a foreign number plate without preferring charges on the driver after being bribed with Sh20, 000 is again on the news for wrong reasons. Last Sunday, he released a notorious chang’aa brewer who had been detained at the station. Officers under him are now unhappy over what they term as obstruction and interference with their work and have threatened to protest. They have asked Deputy IG Edward Mbugua to transfer the officer. They also want the DPP and IPOA to launch investigations into the conduct and behaviour of the officer. ***** WERE politicians from the main coalitions warned by their party leaders against commenting on President Uhuru Kenyatta’s succession publicly? A number of legislators who are members of a large coalition were overheard whispering that the instructions have made their lives difficult amid fear of victimisation. Others say the instructions are an affront to the freedom of expression. ***** That two politicians from Kisii are obsessed with hand-outs is no secret. The MPs including another one from the region but elected in the diaspora, have been hopping from office to office for handouts. Especially during the recess, the lawmakers were on overdrive given the cash crunch that comes with reduced House sitting allowances. Walking as a trio, the MPs prefer visiting offices of ministers and idling around, oblivious of the CSs busy schedules. In one minister’s office, aides had to close the door into the VIP waiting room to allow the CS to escape. Feeling embarrassed, two hours after the CS had left, they threw tantrums at the staff accusing them of disrespect. It has since emerged that some CSs openly run away. Click here for the latest political news