KCB coach Frank Ouna has challenged his playing unit to maintain their winning streak after flooring Mt Kenya United 2-0 yesterday to record their third win of the season at Kenyatta Stadium, Machakos KCB scored a goal in either half to bring to an end United’s two-match winning spree—a result which Ouna wants his charges to build on for their next league assignments. Ouna cited teamwork as their main weapon following yesterday’s win and urged his players to consistently muscle for wins and establish themselves as a force to reckon with in the league. “It was great to get today’s win which came as a result of teamwork. It’s our third win of the season and I challenge the boys to be consistent in winning.The win is a motivation for the players to keep fighting and I believe if we replicate the same fighting spirit in the next matches, we will be a force to reckon with in the league.” Former Kariobangi Sharks left-back Bolton Omwenga put the bankers ahead in the eighth minute, riffling a rebound past Philip Odhiambo to open the scoring charts in a match attended by the club officials and Nzoia Sugar players who are set to play Posta Rangers today. The free attacking KCB had begun the match strongly with Ezekiel Odera and Chrispinus Onyango a constant menace at United’s defence marshalled by Frank Balabala, who single-handedly thwarted a handful of scoring attempts directed to their goal by the marauding bankers. United also created chances as veteran midfielder Moses Odhiambo put through John Ndirangu in the 16th minute but his shot was well gathered by Adisa Omar. Odhiambo watched his 35th minute shot end in the hands of Omar who also denied Amani Kyata in the dying minutes of the first half. Three minutes after restart, Victor Omondi tapped in KCB’s second goal from Omwenga’s well taken free-kick from the edge of the box. It was after conceding the second goal that United coach Melis Medo withdrew Kelvin Omondi for former Mathare United winger Samuel Ndung’u in a bid to neutralise their opponents midfield. Minutes later Medo rested former Tusker left back David Gateri for Nahashon Thiong’o and later exhausted his options by bringing in Harun Nyakha for Timonah Wanyonyi. On the other hand in what seemed to be a tactical move to hold on the two-goal cushion, Ouna threw in right back Baraka Badi for Ezekiel Odera, allowing Onyango and Omondi to partner upfront. The substitutes by United had an impact as their build-up to the opponents goal were quick and executed better than in the opening half, where their onslaughts largely ended in the midfield. Ndung’u made ferocious runs on the right wing but his crosses were met with an equal challenge by the towering KCB defenders. Both teams traded attempts until the 86th minute when the match stopped for more than five minutes as Onyango’s studs landed in the hands of a fully stretched Odhiambo but the medics gave him the green-light to continue manning the goal even as Onyango earned a caution for the foul. KCB would held on till the final whistle to take their tally to 15 points. Medo, who later held a lengthy meeting with his players after the loss, termed the displays by his players as horrible and congratulated KCB for the win. “It was horrible. We did not deserve to win at all.We played poorly in all departments unlike in our past two matches.” Elsewhere, the long awaited Millers derby pitting Sony Sugar and Chemelil Sugar ended in a 0-0 draw at Awendo Green Stadium. Ulinzi Stars rallied from a goal down to hold Western Stima to a one-all draw at Afraha Stadium. David Akongo had given the power men four minutes into the game but Enosh Ochieng struck in the 90th minute to aid his side pick a point.