Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula has criticised the government's move not to give farmers subsidised fertiliser this year. The government on Thursday through the chairman of the Strategic Food Reserves Fund Noah Wekesa, announced that it will not import subsidised fertiliser this year. Wekesa said the farmers will have to buy the fertiliser from the open market. He said although the government had been importing the fertiliser over the years, this time it will not be possible because of procurement challenges. Read: No subsidised fertiliser this year, State tells farmers Addressing a press conference on Friday at Bungoma Members Club, Wetang’ula said that the move will demoralise farmers. He said the move to deny farmers will lead to low yields. "The big question to our President is how is the country going to achieve one pillar of his Big Four Agenda which is food security if we are frustrating, embarrassing and harassing the farmers," Wetang'ula said. The Senator asked the President to immediately recall parliament ahead of its official opening to give him a budget so that the government may continue to provide subsidised products to farmers. He said failure to do that the country will go into a very unstable food situation. Wetang'ula said this will lead to a lack of enough cereals that will open a window for racketeers and smugglers to bring unsafe maize including GMOs unfit for human consumption into the country. The Ford Kenya party leader said that is not how the agriculture sector should be run. He called for counties like Kakamega, Bungoma, Trans Nzoia, Uasin Gishu, West Pokot, Nandi, Nakuru, and other breadbaskets of the country to be given extra support and finances from the state. Wetang’ula said that if the State won't relook at the issue it will cause unrest in the country next year. The Senator was accompanied by four Bungoma MCAs. Last week, Attorney General Kihara Kariuki advised the Agriculture ministry not to import fertiliser through flawed procurement processes involving the firms contracted. Kihara wrote to the ministry saying the importation tendering had been flawed and public money would be lost if the procurement for this year’s fertiliser was allowed to go on. Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri had also revealed that the importation may not be possible because of procurement problems. Read also: Kiunjuri puts NCPB staff on notice over sale of subsidised fertiliser Farmers now fear that the prices of fertiliser in the open market will be costly now that the NCPB will not supply them. The farmers said that NCPB usually helps to maintain lower prices lower through the supply of the subsidised fertilizer and now that there will be no importation, the prices are likely to skyrocket during the planting season. The government was to import about 200,000 metric tonnes of subsidised fertiliser especially the Diammonium phosphate (DAP) which is used in planting by farmers. The planting season in the high producing areas of the North Rift and western starts in most areas at the end of February. At NCPB farmers were to buy the subsidised DAP fertilizer at about Sh1,200 per 50kg bag but farmers fear that the price may go as high as sh 3,000 for the same quantity. Click here for the latest political news 