The hospitality industry in Embu, Nyeri and Murang’a will benefit from the devolution conference to be held in Kirinyaga next month. The counties will provide accommodation and caterin to the over 6,000 guests of the four-day event at Kirinyaga University grounds in Kutus. Governor Anne Waiguru has encouraged hoteliers to take advantage of the March 4-8 conference and offer above-standard services to guests so they can enjoy their stay and visit Kirinyaga, even after the conference. The conference will bring together delegates from all the 47 devolution centres. President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga are expected to attend. Waiguru said not only the big hotels will benefit from the conference, but small hotels - both in the county and neighbouring counties - can boost their business by providing catering services to the guests. ‘’Even our medium level hotels will benefit by providing catering services to our guests. They can make a lot from it if they position themselves well,’’ she said. The governor urged the guests to take their time and sample tourist sites in Kirinyaga, like God’s Bridge (Ndaracha ya Ngai), the Castle Lodge at the bottom of Mt Kenya in Gichugu constituency and the Mt Kenya peaks. Most high end hotels in Kirinyaga are located at Sagana in Ndia and Mwea constituencies, with a serene view of mother nature including major rivers. The county boss told the Star, through her communication office, that her government has put measures in place to ensure the guests can have a memorable event. The county has already started engaging hotel owners on security issues, she said. Kirinyaga alone does not have enough rooms to accommodate the guests, hence, Embu, Murang’a and Nyeri will chip in. The last devolution conference was held last year in Kakamega when Waiguru was the Council of Governors’ deputy chair. Last month, the Kirinyaga boss unsuccessfully contested to be the CoG chair. Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya won the contest. The county has directed owners of kiosks along major roads to relocate as it plans to beautify the areas.