There
have been numerous calls from the Executive to desist and suspend 2022
campaigns and the obsession of mulling about who is best suited to succeed
President Uhuru Kenyatta. That
clarion call has been adopted mainly to focus on service delivery and remove
attention from succession politics as that heightens tensions in the country
and creates an electioneering atmosphere that impedes development. Lately, the
plebiscite campaigns have taken root, especially after the surprise handshake
between erstwhile political antagonists, Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga last
year. The
proponents of a referendum say law changes will remedy the ills facing the
nation such as unequal distribution of wealth and winner takes all model. The
opponents of a constitutional change argue that a plebiscite is simply meant to
create positions for a few. All in all, referendum campaigns are misinformed
and very insensitive given the state of the nation. The
World Poverty Clock report recently ranked Kenya as the eighth nation globally
and sixth continentally with the highest number of people living in extreme
poverty. The report showed  30 per cent (14.7
million) of the 49,784,304 citizens are dirt poor, so much that they spend Sh197
daily or less than Sh5,910 monthly. Unemployment
is a scourge that has given rise to religious radicalisation and mental health
issues such as depression amongst the youth. It stands at 53 per cent,
according to Trends and Insights for Africa. Ninety-four per cent of the
unemployed youth are actively looking for jobs in a country where industries
and companies are shutting down due to losses and an unfriendly environment to
do business due to abysmal corruption. A recent report from the Transparency
International ranked Kenya as one of the most corrupt nations globally, where
billions of shillings are stashed in overseas accounts and high level corrupt suspects
are let off though lenient bails despite being culpable. With
a burgeoning health crisis, where nurses are on strike in many counties,
further paralysing an already brittle health infrastructure, last year medical
experts warned of a worse health crisis in 2020. Because it is expected that in
2020 Kenya would have elevated herself to a middle-income country, which will not
require donor aid, this will deepen the health crisis further. The government
contributes a paltry 36 per cent to the health sector, whilst the rest of the
64 per cent , which forms the bulk, is contributed to by donors who are set to
withdraw funding next year. Therefore,
conversations about the need to change the Constitution are insensitive and
convey how detached the political class in Kenya is. Poverty, unemployment and corruption
are conspicuously crippling our dirt poor nation should be the talk that
pervades and dominates headlines as opposed to creating positions to an already
ruling, bourgeoisie and elite class. I
highly doubt that a Turkana resident , where poverty rate stands at 87.4 per
cent or affects 756,306 residents , would be gung-ho of a referendum instead improving
her or his standard of living. That Turkana resident is representative of the
socio-economic status of millions in our country whose priorities revolve
around food, job and shelter security and not a plebiscite eagerly championed
by those in power or who want power. A
referendum is misplaced and extremely insensitive when all factors are
considered. If the country does not have enough money to pay nurses and
teachers, surely a referendum that would be a multi-billion shilling exercise
should be a moot issue.  Comments on politics, current affairs