Fahim Twaha yesterday urged his rival Issa Timamy to join him and work for the people of Lamu after the Supreme Court upheld his election. The apex court ruled the Court of Appeal did not err by upholding his win, which former governor Timamy had lodged an appeal against. “The appeal dated September 10, 2018 is hereby dismissed and for avoidance of doubt the declaration of results in respect of the governor of Lamu is hereby affirmed,” the court ruled. Reading the judgement, Justice Mohammed Ibrahim said Timamy’s appeal lacked merit. The court said allegations that the election was not conducted in accordance with the constitutional principles of impartiality, transparency, and neutrality were without merit. The court further said Timamy was unable to prove any allegations of impartiality, resulting in the dismissal. Ibrahim said they found no fault on the part of the appeal court, noting it didn’t go beyond its jurisdiction, and was right that the irregularities did not affect the results Timamy moved to the apex court after the court of appeal judges dismissed all the 41 grounds of appeal he had lodged. They had ruled that no evidence was adduced to support claims of electoral malpractices, bias, marked ballot papers and denial of some voters their right to vote. Timamy said Twaha’s deputy was a former employee of the IEBC and might have influenced the outcome of elections. He argued the Court of Appeal judges overlooked evidence of electoral malpractices and violations of the law he had tendered in court. Meanwhile, in the same court, Changamwe MP Omar Mwinyi got a reprieve after his election was also upheld. Dismissing the appeal against Mohamed Abdi Daib of Jubilee, the judges said it lacked merit. Justice Njoki Ndung’u ruled the Court of Appeal correctly analysed the effects of illegalities and irregularities on the election. “We cannot fault their finding that they were not of such a magnitude as to justify the invalidation of the disputed election,” the judge ruled. Click here for the latest political news