A county secretary from one of the devolved units in Nyanza is a troubled man. He reportedly received bribes from several people wanting to be appointed chief officers. They had applied for the jobs. However, the applicants failed the vetting process and were consequently rejected. MCAs said they rejected the nominees because there was no public participation. Those who bribed the secretary have threatened to report the matter to the Director of Criminal Investigations, George Kinoti (pictured) if the official doesn’t refund the cash. It’s said the man has resorted to hide and seek game and has been sending emissaries to ensure he is not exposed. RECENTLY, we told you of a CS who appointed board members with four of the appointees from his clan. It’s whispered the CS is plotting to have people allied to him to push out a CEO in one of the agencies under his ministry. He wants his clansman to take over. A task that he thought will be easy is now giving him sleepless nights. Why? Locals in the area where the agency is headquartered have vowed not to let any of the board meetings happen, saying they have been sidelined. As a result, the inauguration ceremony for the new members has been postponed. The man is also worried about deepening investigation against him over abuse of office and bribery. WHEN will police impunity end in Kenya? Take for instance last Saturday when a drunk cop and his brother triggered a fight at a club in Umoja Estate. The officer left in a huff allegedly to get his gun, but he returned with a host of police officers from Buru Buru police station. The officers arrested everybody in the club and the patrons spent the night in custody. But what was their crime? In the OB, the police accused some revellers of robbery with violence, abduction and assault. Why are some officers treating Kenyans like second rate citizens? Police boss Joseph Boinnet and IPOA members should investigate such blatant misuse of authority. AND still on matters to do with the police. Why have robberies escalated within Kasarani’s Sunton estate in the last few months? This is the question many residents are asking following the wave of armed robberies. Unfortunately, some police officers, accused of spending their time at drinking dens throughout the day, have been fingered for working in cahoots with criminals to terrorise residents. Two officers based at Sunton police post drink at a pub located along the Hunters-Mwiki road not only during the day but at night while armed. So, what time do they get out to ensure Kenyans are safe from criminals? you may ask. Click here for the latest political news