A director at the Nzoia water provider died after a management meeting on Sunday. The cause was not immediately known. Some said there was a heated debate during the directors’ meeting regarding the appointment of a new Nzoia Water Services Company managing director. Others dismissed the allegations. Chemorion Ndiema was found dead outside his Eldoret home’s gate after attending the meeting. Police are investigating; they have not released a statement. The firm has been hit by a management crisis since former managing director Patrick Munialo exited last year. Kennedy Kilali became acting MD. Directors are fighting over who to take the helm of the company. Eight people have being shortlisted for Nzowasco managing director. They include Kilali. Interviews for shortlisted candidates are set for February 28. Munialo was shown the door by the directors last year after he was accused of corruption and running down the company. Kilali took over but the staff and some directors are opposed to his confirmation. They accuse him of running down the company. The staff have several times demanded his exit, accusing him of running corruption rings and high-handedness. Kilali has denied the allegations. Among those opposed to Kilali’s confirmation was Ndiema. A director, who did not want to be named, told the Star the directors meeting was heated between pro-Kilali and those opposed to him. “Chemorion was categorical that the status quo should not remain because the company is on its knees. He said he would rather resign than watch the company collapse.” This offended some directors, who said he was jumping the gun when recruitment has not been completed. Kilali said Ndiema’s death is not linked to the leadership squabbles at the company. “People should stop peddling lies, Ndiema was found dead in Eldoret, not near or around Nzowasco offices,” he said on the phone on Monday. “Those spreading lies to malign my name should stop. They think that by doing so, they will stop the board from elevating me to be the MD.” Another director, who sought anonymity, told the Star on the phone Ndiema was jovial during the meeting, which was called to review the company’s strategic plan. “I don’t think it has anything to do with leadership squabbles. At no point did we discuss appointing a new managing director,” the director said. He said he told them Ndiema was happy because he had a new job at Kenyatta University.