The fight for
positions in post-President Uhuru Kenyatta government has intensified, with
politicians pushing for a referendum to expand the Executive. Pundits, politicians and civil society groups say the referendum push is part of the
wider scheme for top politicians to remain relevant post-2022,
and to have an influence in the next government. “A nation of
contradictions! We applaud plans to amend the Constitution to accommodate
presidential election losers in the Executive but fight the
appointment of other election losers to state corporations,” former
Mandera Senator Billow Kerrow said. “Being penny
wise and pound foolish, to say the least.” Those who have
already shown their interest for the country’s top seat in the coming polls are
Deputy president William Ruto, Nasa founder and ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and
Ford Kenya’s Moses Wetang’ula. Although opposition leader Raila Odinga has not
publicly said he will be on the ballot, it is widely seen that we will still
vie. Wiper leader Kalonzo
Musyoka, who previously said he would not play second fiddle to anyone else
after 2017 polls on Tuesday appeared to make an about-turn when he said he
would take the position of Deputy Prime Minister if the constitutional changes
go through, and Uhuru takes the position of Prime Minister. “If by any
chance Wiper, ANC, ODM, Jubilee and Ford-Kenya merge, and I find myself
contesting for position of PM with my brother Uhuru, then I would rather step
down and support his bid," Kalonzo said. International Centre
for Policy and Conflict executive director Ndung’u Wainaina said, “They are
amending the Constitution to create a formula for all them to be in
government.” And Kalonzo
fell short of confirming that when he told Citizen TV that post-2022, “ you
have to envision a situation where there will be an attempt to have a
government of national unity, and in that government, I don’t see a way where
you can write off President Uhuru Kenyatta. He said he was
preparing Kenyans for what might happen ahead. Uhuru’s allies
ignited the debate on the role of Uhuru after his two-term constitutional
tenure, some saying he was too young to leave the government. “Let us support
the constitutional amendment so that we can have a Constitution that is
accommodative,” Cotu Secretary general Francis Atwoli said at a past Makadara Day
event. Though
many masquerade as presidential candidates or announce their bids in
general elections it is a move meant to build politicians’ national
profile as well as leverage their negotiation in political alliances expecting
to form a new government. Behind the
scenes, some politicians want to use the presidential race to negotiate for a
stake in post-Uhuru era. “It is an intricate of political game involving different
players. Although some are real, others are balloons being thrown in air for
distraction and do tests,” Ndung’u said. He said politicians
fight to remain in government since it’s the most lucrative and machinery for
extracting personal wealth. “Most of the
richest persons in Kenya were either top politicians, top civil servants, bureaucrats
and or to securocrats. Simply, the government is road to personal wealth
without sweat,” he said.  BUILDING
BRIDGES INITIATIVE Atwoli remarks
came months after Uhuru and Raila formed and gazetted the Building Bridges
taskforce following the March 9 handshake last year. The handshake — which some
say has isolated Ruto — was meant to look into constitutional amendments that could
foster national unity and peaceful elections. “If we don’t change
the Constitution where is Uhuru going and he is young? He will disturb some
people,” Atwoli said. In his new book Treason: The Case
Against Tyrants and Renegades Miguna Miguna says Raila was, in fact,
against the swearing-in and adds that the handshake killed the controversial oath. He, however, notes that those close to Uhuru had planned to sideline
Ruto immediately after the polls. “There are
those who want change to capture power through the
parliamentary system, those who want no change and those who want a hybrid
system so that they can have jobs after their current
terms(especially governors) end,” Ndung’u.  RAILA BACK TO THE DRAWING BOARD The opposition
leader is back to the drawing board, with ODM officials confirming to the Star
that the party is rebuilding ahead of 2022. “Building the
party is a continuous process,” ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna told the
Star on the phone. “It involves many things.” ODM wants the restructuring of the Executive to re-introduce a parliamentary
system, the creation of a Prime Minister post and have a President elected by a
college of legislatures in its submissions to the task force mandated to
collect views from the public on ways of enhancing national unity. “This will be the year of change for this country,” Raila said on Thursday at Capitol Hill
after meeting student leaders from various universities. The ODM leader, who is also the AU Special Envoy for Infrastructure,
believes has also endorsed some of the proposals in his push for a
referendum. Lawmakers
from Nyanza offered Uhuru the position of Prime Minister if he supports Raila
for President during his tour of the region last December. They want Uhuru to
endorse Raila as his successor. In return, they will support a referendum and
endorse Uhuru for Prime Minister after his term ends. “You make a choice to be with us or not. Nobody will stop the change
that is coming,” Raila told the students.  RUTO’S OPTIONS Interviews
from DP’s close allies point to a man walking a tight rope. Ruto is torn between
easing his supporters' anger over his maintaining his loyalty to his boss, Uhuru. “My advice to
him is to quit the government and begin hitting at Uhuru as a betrayer. Tell
the Kikuyus that this is not how to live with other Kenyans. He can also look
for other people who have been betrayed before, such as  Kalonzo, and work with them,” political
analyst Herman Manyora told the
Star in the past interview. The DP,
knowing that Mount Kenya had planned to weaken the presidency or fail to
support him in the coming polls, he has decided to play ball. Former Jubilee vice chairman David Murathe
has already publicly said there exists a Stop Ruto Movement. Ruto in his
Chatham House speech proposed the creation and recognition of the Official Opposition
in Parliament. “It was not
proper that the leader of a party garnering the second highest votes had no
formal constitutional role,” the DP said last Saturday in London. Close allies told the Star that Ruto is ready to endorse two strong
candidates and go for the country’s premier position if the referendum goes
through.  MUDAVADI’s
BID The former VP
and Deputy Prime Minister has already set up teams to plan his presidential
bid. Mudavadi has also
warned that he will only support a process driven by wananchi. “The moment
and the process cannot be fenced in by a small elite cabal that is engaged in a
divisive jungle-style political popularity contest,” he said. “Over the
past eight years, those charged with implementing the Constitution have done so
only hesitantly. Sometimes they have been outright unwilling to implement it —
and at other times gone flat out to frustrate it,” Musalia said. He said the referendum debate must not be restricted
to a small segment of the political elite who want to placate Kenyans with
amendments of the kind Kenya experienced in 1965, 1966 and 1982 “....[These
included] abolishing devolved government and the Senate, or expanding an
already bloated Executive,” Mudavadi said. The former
Sabatia MP believes electoral injustice, corruption, tribalism and incompetence
can be addressed if those in power implement Chapter Six of the Constitution on
integrity.   