The wrangles at the Kisumu county assembly heightened yesterday after some MCAs threatened to kick out majority leader and chief whip. The MCAs were unhappy with Majority Leader Kenneth Onyango and Chief Whip Gard Olima for allegedly failing to unite the assembly. Led by Kajulu MCA Roy Samo, the reps said they already have a petition signed by 26 MCAs against the two leaders because they no longer have confidence in them. Samo accused a few members of holding the assembly hostage by perpetuating violence, noting that they will not allow the squabbling continue. “We have given notice to our majority leader and chief whip; 26 of us have already signed a petition.We are going to approach the party and if they don’t change, we will remove them and elect new persons,” he told the media. The assembly has 49 leaders - the speaker, 35 elected MCAS and their 13 nominated counterparts. Samo said the people expect them to work and deliver for them not to engage in frequent fights at the same time appealing to members who have been making chaotic scenes that the time for development is now, and reminded them to legislate on matters that are of importance to the county. He said speaker Onyango Oloo has been giving a lot of leeway to the majority leader whenever he makes noise or does anything pitting the MCAs against each other. Kaloleni MCA Prisca Misachi said the two leaders have failed to use their positions to save the assembly from persistent supremacy battles. Misachi called for talks among the members to end the constant bickering. “The majority leader is an icon in the assembly who is supposed to unite the house and not have factions, if he fails we will call on the ODM party and if they don’t want to be on that sit, then the deputy majority leader will assume it,”she said. She reminded the members that they are obliged to deliver on their duties and hence should shun populist politics in the assembly. South West Kisumu MCA Erick Agola denied allegations that the some members affiliated to ODM party had begun boycotting House business. Agola clarified that contrary to such claims the first three assembly sittings have been well attended. Judith Ogaga the now current budget chair said she was up to the task that’s why she was elected.