Harambee Stars coach Sebastien Mighe has defended the selection of the Kariobangi Sharks goalkeepers duo of John Oyemba and Brian Bwire to the provisional squad which began training yesterday ahead of the Chan and Africa Cup of Nations qualifier matches. Migne while announcing his 25-man last Saturday surprisingly called up the two custodians from the same club despite Bwire being largely unused in Sharks Kenya Premier League matches in the ongoing season. However, the Frenchman who oversaw the first training session yesterday at the Kenya School of Monetary Studies grounds, sought to explain the move behind the inclusion of the two glove men who will jostle for playing time in the national team alongside Bandari’s Farouk Shikhalo. Migne noted that the inclusion of Bwire in the squad was in line with the national U-23 Emerging Stars preparations ahead of their next month 2020 Olympics second round qualifier against Sudan while Oyemba would feature in the Chan team set to play Burundi in the qualifiers. Bwire manned the goal when the Kenyan U-23 team eliminated Mauritius 8-1 on aggregate in the first round of the qualifiers last year. The win gave the country the green-light to play Sudan in the second round. Bwire was joined by six more players from the U-23 side in training with the senior team. The six are Sharks duo of James Mazembe and Sydney Lokale, Mathare United’s left back David Owino, KCB centre half Michael Kibwage, AFC Leopards forward Jafar Owiti and Wazito midfielder Teddy Osok. Migne said: “It was important to call Bwire to the squad as you are aware the Olympics qualifiers are next month against Sudan which is an important fixture to us. Oyemba has been outstanding for Sharks in the league and he will feature in the Chan team alongside Shikhalo.” “Of course, Patrick Matasi remains our first choice but I do not want to put him under unnecessary pressure. We also have several U-23 players in team and some will play in both the Olympics and Chan qualifiers,” he said. Yesterday, 17 local-based players turned up for the training with the unattached duo of Masoud Juma and David ‘Cheche’ Ochieng also checking in for the drills which will be conducted every Tuesday until Harambee Stars leave for France in readiness for the Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers. Gor Mahia trio of Philemon Otieno, Joash Onyango and Francis Kahata were unavailable for training as the club was gearing up for today’s Premier League match against Western Stima while all players who ply their trade with club based out of Nairobi, did not show up for the session. They include Bandari duo of Abdalla Hassan and Shikhalo, Kakamega Homeboyz forward Allan Wanga and Vihiga United skipper Bernard Ochieng. Migne expressed delight with the players’ turn up and highlighted the significance of the early training sessions ahead of the Olympics, Chan and Afcon. Yesterday Football Kenya Federation president Nick Mwendwa attended the first session. “It is important to have the team assembled on time ahead of the three assignments. We have the Olympics, Chan and the final Afcon qualifier match against Ghana and we have to begin preparations early. I am happy with the response from the boys. We will be doing this every Tuesday of every week even though I do not want to interfere with the running of the league. We will be training with the available players.”