Garissa
county has embarked on exercise to register all developed and undeveloped plots
in Garissa town and other urban centers within the county. According to
Hassan Anshur,the chief officer for revenue department 60 percent of revenue is supposed to be from land rates but
currently they are collecting nothing. Speaking in
Garissa town after stakeholders meeting with clerics and officials from the
revenue department on friday, Hassan said for the focus will be Garissa town
but will be rolled out to ther major urban centers. He said
after compiling the list of the plots they will then do a valuation of those
developed and undeveloped with a  view of
coming up with appropriate rates of each one of them. The county
is expected to raise 250 million annually. however during the the 2017-19
financial year it managed to collect 160 million. He said the
department has decided to actively engage opinion leaders to create awareness
will effectively contribute towards tax and revenue resource mobilization He said the
department has embarked on a series of robust stakeholders forum to strengthen
and increase revenue. "We
have engaged Garissa livestock tax payers’ association and today we are
bringing on board the religious leaders. We are planning to meet the MCAs to
ensure that all our stakeholders understand and support us in this endeavor,''
he said. He warned county
revenue officials against collection of cash money noting that if found will
lead to stern disciplinary action. The director
for lands and survey Abdullahi Ibrahim Hakar urged both the Muslim and
Christian clerics to use their influence as opinion leaders to ensure members
of the public apy their land rates . Religious
leaders who spoke promised to actively engage in mobilizing members of the
public to pay revenues and tax to the Government for better services. Last
week,the CEC finance Roble Nuno said the county and ward administrators will be
tasked with to sensitizing the public on revenue enhancement, mode of payment,
land rate/registration and the upcoming mapping exercise and issuance of tittle
deeds. He noted
that the local community should be aware of their responsibility to pay taxes
and land rates for the County Government to offer effective services  Ends …..    