Champions Butali Warriors have signed four new players ahead of the 2019 Kenya Hockey Premier League season which begins on March 2. The Warriors have brought to their camp experienced left wing defender Arif Shah from Nairobi Simba, midfielder Francis Kariuki (Strathmore), right back David Makori (KU) and forward Moses Ademba from Multimedia. Head coach Dennis Awoka intimated that the new inclusions will ensure continuity in the team considering there are players who are advancing in age. “We have a few players in the team whom age is catching up with so it is just prudent that we bring in youthful charges who are equally talented and hardworking. Soon, some of the senior players will not be able to play full-time and when that time comes, we need to have incorporated the youthful ones in the team’s system,” said Awoka. Zack Aura, Emmanuel Simiyu and Maxwell Fuchaka are some of the experienced players who will be forced to play sparingly. “The game is physically demanding and it reaches a point in time when the body cannot just take it,” added Awoka, whose club has shifted from City Park to Oshwal Academy. Many clubs and national teams train at the City Park leading to debilitation of the astro turf. Whereas Kariuki, Makori and Ademba come in for continuity purposes, Arif (who is beyond 30 years) bolsters Butali’s short corner execution. “He is a specialist in short corner trapping, an area we struggled in last season. Hopefully, he’ll inspire the team in this department,” continued the Kahawa-based soldier. Meanwhile, Awoka is targeting to break the Egyptian dominance at the continental stage during the 2019 Africa men’s Club Championships. With memories of being in the playing unit of the first team — Kenya Armed Forces — to take the continental club trophy out of Egypt in 1998, Awoka is upbeat and confident his charges can win the title. “We have finished the tournament in the third position twice—in 2017 and 2012—but this time we have to up our game and bring the trophy home after 20 years. We have time to sharpen our arsenal,” he said. Others who were in the 1998 title winning Armed Forces squad and still active in hockey are Strathmore University coach Meshack Senge, Butali Warriors custodian Joseph Owino and Kisumu Lakers’ coach Brian Aduda.