Samburu Governor Moses Lenolkulal has said he is ready to face the consequences if found guilty of embezzling Sh2 billion as alleged by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC). The governor also distanced himself from members of his staff including his personal assistant who was named by EACC for opening proxy companies and awarding themselves tenders and huge pays. He insisted that everyone should carry their own cross. Addressing the press outside his office on Thursday, Lenolkulal said his administration is a public entity which will cooperate with EACC investigators to unearth the alleged graft. "As a government, we are fully open to investigations to ensure that this matter is dealt with," he said. Lenolkulal, however, urged EACC to conduct honest investigations devoid of a political witch-hunt. The governor noted that besides accountability issues, every elected leader has a moral obligation of the people who elected them. The county boss said it would be 'evil' of him to oversee misappropriation and embezzlement of public funds. Lenolkulal called on local politicians not to take advantage of such occurrences to gain political mileage. On Wednesday morning EACC detectives raided Lenolkulal’s Karen and Maralal homes and offices over the matter. Read: EACC raids Samburu Governor Moses Lenolkulal's homes in Sh2bn fraud probe The anti-graft agency said it had unearthed dealings where 19 county staff members, including the governor, syphoned millions through proxies. Residents of Maralal town called on EACC to extend their investigations to contractors and junior staff members working at the county offices. James Nakope, a resident, urged the graft agency to carry out a human resource audit for the entire county staff saying that most of them were not employed on merit. “There is tribalism and nepotism when it comes to employment in the county and that is why nobody questioned the awarding of tenders in the first place,” he said. Click here for the latest political news