A proposed multi-billion shilling LPG storage terminal and dock in Kilifi county has caused uproar over fears it will threaten the ecosystem. Two foreign investors and a Kenyan are behind the proposal to build a 3,000 metric tonne Liquidified Petroleum Gas storage terminal and single mooring point in Takaungu. Some of the 11 plots involved are settlement schemes. Residents also say part of the project will be on riparian land, causing massive marine and air pollution. Taifa Gas Kenya, through its Kenyan director Victor Augustine Onyango, said it intend to construct above-ground spherical tanks, a tanker filling station and perimeter wall fencing. The two directors, Jehangir Aziz Abdulrsool and Justin Mugangala, are believed to be from Tanzania. They are said to  own 4,900 and 100 ordinary shares, respectively. Onyango said the project will occupy 2.29 hectares. The company explained how it would mitigate against solid waste generation; air,  water, soil and noise pollution, and adverse socio-economic impacts. The National Environmental Management Authority (Nema) confirmed it has received an Environmental Impact Assessment report on affected plots in Boyani area. In a notice several weeks ago, it had invited the public and stakeholders to give their views today. The meeting was to be chaired by the county commissioner, at the proposed Takaungu site, near Mombasa Cement factory in Kilifi. However, the meeting was cancelled abruptly. Taifa Gas Kenya, told the Star that all key stakeholders were not able to attend. This raised questions about viability of the project and pubic input by residents and stakeholders. Infighting takes a toll In an email to the Star, the firm’s Kenyan director Onyango said, “We note that prior to carrying out such an undertaking ...stakeholders in the area have to be given an opportunity to raise concerns.”  He said the forum would be held later, after issues have been resolved. The impact assessment report said Energy Regulatory Commission (ERC)-approved trucks will be filled on site for transport to different parts of the country. Affected residents include the Charo Shutu family, which owns huge tracts of land in Kilifi. ResisIt owns several plots in the proposed project area. The Ministry of Lands in a September 6 letter last year warned there was a blanket embargo on any transactions involving the plots. It was addressed to the chief officer of Physical Planning, at the Kilifi county government, Priscilla Nyaga. She signed the letter for the director Lands Adjudication at Ardhi House. The letter said there was anadvertisement in local dailies, yet the plots were allocated for agricultural purposes, and are to remain the same. On October 15, last year, more than 200 families presented a memorandum to Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi. It was copied to the county department of Planning and Lands, PS in the Environment ministry, the director general of the Energy Regulatory Commission, Nema and the National Lands Commission. Infighting among agencies seems to have taken a toll. The NLC wrote to Nema on November 15 last year, advising it not to issue an operating license to Taifa Gas Kenya. “Owing residents’ complaints, the NLC now directs that you do not issue the license to operate until these grievances are resolved. The NLC shall keenly monitor the implementation of this directive as per its mandate,” form NLC chair Muhammad Swazuri wrote. The residents, led by Omar Salim Mwakweli, say they have not been consulted. “Our main economic activity is fishing, the biggest worry is marine pollution. In a case there is a gas leakage, it will pose a serious threat to marine biodiversity,” Salim said. He said there was little consideration given to the safety and suitability of access and exit roads serving Takaungu residents. “We are not even aware how much LPG will be stored at one time although the figure 3,000 tonnes has been mentioned. We’re unsure  whether it’s the storage capacity or handling capacity,” he said. Yet to be auctioned He said installation of gas detection and emergency shutdown valves are cited in the project report but details are not included in the Environmental Management Plan. “The project site is close to residential areas and Mombasa Cement Plant. In case there is an outbreak of fire due to the leakage of gas, the thousands of tonnes of inflammable gas can cause a disaster,” Salim said. A letter from county secretary and head of Public Service Mkare Jefwa to Taifa Gas Kenya Limited, requested project details and compliance with county departments standards. “ ...Whilst welcoming positive developments by investors, this office wishes to confirm whether you’ve conformed with requisite and necessary approvals within our departments that may include: Approval on change of user if required or any land matters, building plan approvals by the relevant county departments, public participation by stakeholders, NEMA clearances, Energy regulatory commission clearance,” the letter indicated. But in their response, Onyango told the Star that most of the processes are yet to be auctioned or completed.