If you want to enjoy most of the benefits derived from honey, its purity is what you should consider before buying some. Most of the honey in the grocery stores isn’t exactly what the bees produce but fake and impure honey. Without distinguishing the difference between pure and fake honey, you will end up buying a bad product. There is a lot of adulteration of honey, which makes it not real yet sold as the real deal. Because of the high demand for pure honey resulting from its medicinal and nutritional value, individuals and companies have taken advantage of this (high demand) in a move to make an extra buck by selling fake honey. Real honey should not come from a factory but from bees. The most common references to real and pure honey are organic and natural honey. By just looking at packaged honey on the shelves, it is almost impossible to tell whether the honey is fake or real. Impure, artificial or adulterated, fake honey is ‘honey’ that has been added glucose, dextrose, molasses, sugar syrup, invert sugar, flour, corn syrup, starch, or any other similar product, other than floral nectar. So, the question then begs, how can you differentiate between genuine honey and adulterated? Genuine honey is not sticky if rubbed between fingers, fake/processed honey is sticky due to additional sweeteners. Genuine honey is fairly thick and takes time to move from one side of the jar to other, fake honey is very light and runny. when it comes to taste, genuine honey's sweet taste vanishes in a matter of minutes while fake honey taste remains for a little longer due to the presence of additives. Genuine honey has a mild scent, probably the actual smell of a flower while fake honey would have a sour smell or no smell at all. If you decide to heat genuine honey, it caramelizes quickly and does not form a foam, fake honey becomes bubbly and never caramelizes. Heating is important to increase the life of honey. Genuine honey does not dissolve in water instead it will lump and settle at the bottom then gets diluted when stirred for a while. Fake honey gets dissolves in the water right away. When genuine honey is spread on a slice of bread the slice hardens in minutes, fake honey wets the bread due to moisture content. Genuine honey does not get absorbed when poured on blotting paper, fake honey gets absorbed in blotting paper and leaves stains on a white piece of cloth. Genuine honey has impurities, dirty looking particles, pollen and bee body parts, fake honey has no impurities. Read; Beekeeping harvests not as sweet as we hoped, Kenyan farmers say Click here for the latest political news.   