More than 25 MPs have said they will support the referendum if the changes to the Constitution are aimed at transforming the lives of Kenyans. The legislators said they are not scared of the exercise so long focus is on creation of job opportunities for Kenyans and not individual gains. "We want to make it clear that we are not scared to go for a referendum so long as we are told how it will help Kenyans,” Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichungwa said. He was among several other Jubilee MPs who attended an inter-denominational church service cum thanksgiving event for Kericho Women Rep Florence Bore. The event on Sunday was held at Kaproret in Bureti, Kericho County. It was attended by Deputy President William Ruto and Kericho Governor Paul Chepkwony. Other MPs at the event included Didmus Barasa (Kimilili), Purity Ngirici (Kirinyaga), Halima Mucheke (nominated), Faith Gitau (Nyandarua), Tecla Tum (Nandi), Joyce Kameme (Machakos), and Hillary Kosgei (Kipkelion West). The leaders said they are focused on activities aimed at transforming the lives of Kenyans. Read: Jubilee lawmakers sharply split on referendum calls Isiolo senator Fatuma Dullo criticised those calling for Constitutional change yet the existing one had not been fully implemented eight years after its approval by Kenyans. “When we said in 2010 there were some areas we wanted changed in the Constitution, the same people who opposed us are the same ones now calling for a referendum to amend the same Constitution they passed,” she said. Laikipia MP Catherine Waruguru said calls for a referendum were ill-advised and aimed at undermining the implementation of the government’s Big Four agenda. “The country is busy with the implementation of the Big Four agenda, preparing for a review of boundaries and census and, therefore, we have no time for a referendum to amend the Constitution,” Waruguru said. The MPs said they would back Ruto's presidential bid in 2022. “We will not support Dr Ruto for the top seat come 2022 because he is a Kalenjin but because of his development track record,” said Bahati MP Kimani Ngunjiri. Ichungwa and Ngunjiri assured Rift Valley residents that their counterparts in Mt Kenya are firmly behind the DP in his quest for the presidency. “What we know is that President Kenyatta has not said he will not support Dr Ruto for president in 2022. There is a covenant we made in Nakuru in 2013, which is still intact and must be respected,” added Ngunjiri. The leaders noted that the 2013 handshake between President Kenyatta and Dr Ruto had united the country. They observed that the March handshake between the President and former Prime Minister Raila Odinga was also welcomed. The legislators said Kenyans would in 2022 elect a president not because of his or her family's economic status but on development record. The Deputy President, on his part, urged leaders to focus their energies on activities that would transform the lives of Kenyans, saying the time for politicking was over. Read: Referendum is for idlers, says Ruto Related: Majority opposed to referendum call - poll Ruto said Jubilee was formed on the basis of uniting and transforming the lives of Kenyans rather than as a platform for people to win political seats. “We did not form Jubilee as a national party so that anybody can get positions or for any community to back another community but for unity and development of all Kenyans,” Ruto said. He went on: “Issues of who will get what positions is not our mission. Our mission is about how to improve the lives of hustlers or the small boys at the villages and towns.” Ruto said the government’s commitment to improve the lives of Kenyans through the Big Four agenda was on course. “As Jubilee, we know where we come from, where we are and where we are going. We have a clear testimony on issues of development if what we have done in the last five years is anything to go by,” Ruto said. He said he would continue to support President Kenyatta in his development agenda for the country and especially the implementation of the Big Four agenda. “I am committed as the Deputy President to supporting my elder brother President Uhuru Kenyatta in transforming the lives of Kenyans,” he said. Other MPs present were Joseph Limo (Kipkelion East), Japheth Mutai (Bureti), Kipsengeret Koros (Soin/Sigowet), Nelson Koech (Belgut), Janet Sitienei (Turbo), and Aaron Cheruiyot (Kericho). Also present were Gerusha Momanyi (Nyamira), Beatrice Kones (Bomet East), Joyce Korir (Bomet), David Sankok (nominated), Joseph Tonui (Kuresoi South), Wilson Kogo (Chesumei), and Purity Kathambi (Njoro). More on this: Referendum to alter Western politics as bigwigs take stand Click here for the latest political news 