In amongst the unrest and at times chaos of the last few years, pride has continuously reared is head - a veritable oasis amongst a desert of discontent. We have embraced pride wholeheartedly, pride in ourselves, in our skin colours, in our different shapes and sizes, and in our histories and where we come from. As Kenyans, while we may inevitably complain every once in a while (it is human nature after all), we are a proud people, in who we are and in what we are. Kenyan musicians are showcasing their talents not only on the continent but also on an international stage Our artists and designers are making names for themselves globally and we can even lay claim to an Oscar winner not to mention the numerous award winning filmmakers and photographers - all showing the world that this is what we can do! This is my Kenya! The diversity and beauty found on this corner of the world has and will continue to inspire artists and for the past 5 years, the Safaricom PLC calendar has been used as a platform that celebrates this. Usually exhibited through photography, this year, there is a shift to painting. On their site they wrote, “We believe now is the time for its magnificence to echo far and wide! There is talent to be discovered, there are treasures to be unearthed, and there are stories to be told.” Made up of a superb and diverse selection of 36 shortlisted art pieces based on the theme “This is my Kenya”, the best artist is selected by a group of judges. The pieces are then showcased on the website where the winners are then featured on three versions of a 2019 calendar, acting as a gallery where they can each be bid on and purchased. “Through this calendar have a chance to celebrate our country through the eyes of gifted Kenyan artists. A chance to explore our beauty, wildlife, love, aspirations, hope, laughter and more! “We believe that if we truly come together around Kenyan art, invariably great things will happen!” For more information visit: thisismykenya.co.ke 