Bishop David Gakuyo has pleaded with Industrialisation CS Peter Munya to unfreeze his bank accounts to enable him to pay back the money he owes members of Ekeza Sacco. Speaking to the media outside his church in Thika on Monday, Gakuyo said the decision by the CS to stop him from selling his properties was a big blow to him as he will not be able to pay his creditors who he says the sacco owed millions of shillings. Gakuyo, the founder and chairman of the sacco, said Ekeza owes his clients Sh400 million. He said he had already paid back Sh160 million to members since his accounts were frozen and others have already been given land as they had agreed. He requested the sacco members to give him time and assured them that he would pay back all the money. Read: Ekeza Sacco puts property on sale to refund members’ savings “Ekeza Sacco had employed more than 5,000 people supporting the Big Four Agenda of affordable housing and employment for the community. If this initiative is closed, all these people will be unemployed affecting their lifestyle and economic state,” he said. “Political interference has played a big role in the woes currently facing Ekeza, my political enemies are fighting me in all areas to a point of sending goons to my church to cause distress pretending to be members of the sacco." Gakuyo said that a Kiambu county MP and a former governor were behind the woes surrounding the sacco as they see him as a political obstacle for their 2022 political aspirations. “I want to assure all Kenyans that I am not selling my properties so that I can flee from this country as is being insinuated in the social media. I'm a genuine person. Once my accounts are unfrozen I will deal with my members and ensure we come to a favourable conclusion,” he said. Read more: Real estate mogul Gakuyo gone into hiding, court told Gakuyo was one of the major players in Kiambu politics in the 2017 election campaigns and was said to be amongst the biggest financiers of Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu. He is also the proprietor of Gakuyo real estate and the Bishop of Calvary Church Ministries that has a very big following in Kiambu and Murang’a counties. Click here for the latest political news                