A plan by eight counties to revive the Sh25 billion Nairobi-Nanyuki railway line is facing problems after Murang’a dismissed it as a national project. Two years ago, eight counties made a commitment to revive the railway. They are Murang’a, Nyeri, Laikipia, Kirinyaga, Kiambu, Nairobi, Nyandarua and Isiolo. Each county governments committed to contribute Sh100 million towards the project. It is not clear if they have contributed any money. On Monday, Murang’a Governor Mwangi wa Iria dismissed it as national government project. Through a text message to the Star, Wa Iria said, “This is a national government project and you need to get the correct information from the relevant ministry. I don’t seem to have any information to such effect, which you incidentally seem to have.” Laikipia and Nyeri governors Ndiritu Muriithi and Mutahi Kahiga, respectively, said the project will take off at some point. “I’m committed to the project and I’m waiting for modalities to be completed. It has been slower than expected, however, the important thing is forward movement,” Muriithi said in a text message. Kahiga said, “We are still committed to reviving the railway. Forming Central Kenya Economic Bloc (Cekeb), which has 10 counties is a first step towards the revival.” Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru and her Kiambu counterpart Ferdinand Waititu did not respond to text messages. In November 2017, the eight counties agreed to revive the railway line that had stopped operating seven years earlier. It halted operations in 2010, a few years after it was revived by former Transport minister John Michuki in 2004. The passenger and cargo train service between Nairobi and Nanyuki tentatively was to start in May last year. The eight county bosses met on November 3, 2017, at Maiyan hotel in Laikipia, where they discussed how the 240km railway line could become operational. open trade Kenya Railways managing director Atanas Maina, who was present, said the contribution by the government was a show of commitment towards the project and major funding would come from the national government. Then Nyeri Governor Wahome Gakuru, while briefing the media after a three-hour meeting, said the railway project would open intercounty trade and eventually move to Isiolo to link up with the Lappset. Waititu had said Nairobi and Kiambu counties would benefit immensely from the train transport. “Food grown from Nyeri, Laikipia, Kirinyaga and Murang’a will easily get ready markets in the capital city,” he said. “The aim of making the railway line operational is to boost trade by linking northern Kenya with the capital city, thereby creating employment”. Governors at the meeting included Muriithi, Gakuru, Waititu and former Nairobi Deputy Governor Polycarp Igathe. Governors from Isiolo, Kirinyaga, Murang’a and Nyandarua counties sent apologies.