Ever since I can remember knowing about Valentine’s Day, I have always dreamt of what it could be. I have sat thinking about all the favourable scenarios for more minutes than necessary. I am a hopeless romantic. I love romance and fairy tales. I am a cross between Snow White (I like to sleep) and Rapunzel (my hair is not long but if you know you know), waiting for my Prince Charming to ‘save me’. ( Though I have a problem with the Prince in the Snow White story. Kissing random sleeping girls in glass coffins is a bit on the weird side. Maybe a lot.) Somehow though, the man did not receive this memo. Or is it the curse? It all started in class eight. A few weeks before Valentine’s a certain boy showed interest in me. I did not even know this boy existed till he said hi or something. I do not remember. What I remember though was thinking that I finally had a Valentine’s (after reading Sweet Valley High novels it was really happening to me) and it was going to be the best one ever! I went into overdrive, Valentine’s was a couple of weeks away and I would be damned if I was going to be caught off guard. My mother was the queen of side gigs, so I got odd jobs undoing stitches, helping her with the fresh juice and tying fabric for tie and dye. I made all of Sh200. In the early nineties that was a lot of money and I was NOT going to spend it all on that boy even though I wanted a magical Valentine’s Day. I tagged along with my mum on the weekend as she was running her errands and convinced her to take me to TBC in Sarit Centre. I went straight to the card section, which was all red. Teddy bears and hearts, glitter and balloons. It was all so beautiful. I chose a card that cost Sh45! I do not even remember what the card said. I just remember that it was red and big. My mother did not even ask who I was buying the card for. My daughter is 17, if she tried such a stunt, I would convince her to buy herself ice cream or a hair band instead. On Monday, I go to school with this stupid card, signed and sealed. All day I did not have courage to give him the card. In the evening though, I gathered courage, went up to his class, gave him the card and ran away. (I thought he would run after me and thank me and maybe give me a card.) He never talked to me again. Did not even say ‘Thank you’. I still wonder what was written in that card. The way I was excited, I doubt I read it. For all I know it could have said “for my darling wife on Valentine’s...” That was the beginning of my Valentine’s curse. I still remember his face. He had spectacles and his hair was a tad too long. His skinny legs looked long in his school shorts, yet I was taller than him. James was his name. James something. I was so in love with him for two weeks. (To be young and foolish is bliss). Since then, if I have got a Valentine’s gift, it has usually been a stupid one. Most Valentine’s nothing has happened. Not even a pat on the back. I have got a flower vase shaped like a fish (I am from the lakeside and I love fish, but seriously?) I have been given socks and an apron. I have heard it is the thought that counts, but no thought was put into those gifts please. I am 40 years old. I have had about 26 Valentine’s days since I was 14 and the curse still hangs. Beginning of this week, I asked the man about Valentine’s, he had the nerve to ask me what type of fish I was talking about. Apparently, he does not believe in Valentine’s. I am just shocked. At no point did I ask if he believed in it. I just asked about his plans. I just want flowers, chocolates and a bottle of wine delivered to my office today. I just want my Valentine’s curse broken. Anyway, pray for my man. Nothing is wrong with him. Yet.  fellyoyuga@gmail.com