It has been a steady rise up the Kenya Premier League table for Sofapaka after a lacklustre start to the campaign. Since John Baraza was appointed as head coach on permanent basis, ‘Batoto Ba Mungu’ have taken ten points from four matches to bring their hopes of ending their decade-long wait to win another championship. “Every season we want to challenge for trophies and this is no different. Yes we began the campaign poorly but now everything is clicking into place and we have to work even harder to keep the momentum going,” remarked Baraza. The 2009 champions will be in Machakos today to tackle equally high flying Nzoia United who, like them, have 17 points from 10 matches. Both sides are unbeaten over their last four matches and could be third by the end of the day should either manage to halt the other’s unbeaten streak. A chance to go top of the table beckons for Bandari as they face third place Tusker at Kasarani. The dockers registered a resounding win last time out against AFC Leopards—a result that not only cost Marko Vasilievich his job but also confirmed the Mombasa side as title contenders—just days after a humiliating defeat at Kakamega Homeboyz. The clash away to the brewers present arguably one of the sternest tests to the championship credentials of Bernard Mwalala’s charges. That match up will be preceded by an equally intriguing duel between Kariobangi Sharks and Ulinzi Stars. Their last meeting was at the same venue in the SportPesa Shield in which William Muluya’s charges cruised to victory en-route to winning the competition. However, there has been little to separate them in their four league meetings so far and today’s early kick off encounter is likely to be no different. League leaders Mathare United face a tricky trip to Awendo as they look to hold onto top spot a week after their unbeaten run was ended. Facing Sony Sugar at the Green Stadium is not anyone’s cup of tea but Mathare must show they can get results in difficult circumstances to reaffirm their title contenders tag. Relegation-threatened Posta Rangers have another shot at ending their win-less streak when they take on fast improving KCB. The bankers are unbeaten in their last five outings, a record they will not be keen to relinquish particularly to a team that is win-less in their last seven matches.