Farmers from 10 counties yesterday condemned the widespread theft of macadamia nuts. Jungle Nut Ltd, a macadamia processing company, also said the theft of nuts from farms has increased. Its officials blamed brokers and some unnamed processing companies for encouraging the theft. There are 100,000 macadamia farmers in Embu, Meru, Machakos, Kirinyaga, Kiambu, Taita Taveta, Tharaka Nithi, Baringo, Murang’a and Nyeri. Some 700 farmers’ representatives expressed their concern at the School of Government in Embu where they were trained on organic farming. The training was organised by Jungle Nut processing company. The farmers and the processor said the thieves invade farms at night and sell the nuts to brokers who then take the produce to processing factories. The growers said they are becoming poorer by the day. “Some of our farmers spend the night in the cold guarding their macadamia,” Jungle Nut’s chief executive Patrick Wainaina said. Juliet Ng’ang’a from Meru urged the government to beef up security in macadamia growing areas. She also urged processors to stop buying nuts from brokers and instead get them from farmers. Wainaina said the theft is encouraged by brokers who buy nuts cheaply and sell it in a bulk to the processors. He called on the processors not to buy the nuts in small quantities and only procure the produce from those who sell in bulk. Jungle Nut buys nuts directly from farmers and gives them loans and bonuses. Wainaina said they have helped farmers to save more than Sh200 million. They intend to build rental and commercial houses. The CEO urged the government to employ extension officers to educate growers on better farming methods. Jungle Nut has 300 extension officers who advise its clients. Early this month, nut processors called for the implementation of the ban on the harvest of immature nuts. The Nut Traders Association of Kenya blamed the violation of the ban on processors using brokers to buy nuts at throwaway prices. In December, the Agriculture Food Authority banned the harvesting of nuts and oil crops between November 30 and February 15 to allow for maturity.