Human rights activist Caroline Mwatha will be buried on Saturday at Asembo Bay in Siaya county. Her mother Hannah Kathathi yesterday said burial arrangement meetings are taking place until Thursday at the Dandora justice center where she worked and at their Dandora home phase two. A funeral service will be held on Thursday 10am at Dandora Catholic church where mourners will gather for viewing and final prayers. A night vigil will also be conducted at her home on Thursday evening. “According to the Luo culture, it was confirmed by the husbands father that the body shall be laid at her home on Thursday then afterwards taken toher husbands father’s home on Friday awaiting Saturday’s burial,” she said. “We shall start the journey to Siaya at her husbands home on Friday morning and lay her to rest on Saturday. We have to respect their culture,” her mother said. Human rights lobby including Haki Africa are expected to attend the burial. The executive director of Haki Africa Hussein Khalid has urged Kenyans to help Mwatha’s family in burial contributions. Read: [AUDIO] Activist Caroline Mwatha died from excessive bleeding, raptured uterus - Autopsy “We are currently doing contributions for the burial preparation and we are also welcoming everyone who is willing to help financially,” Khalid said. According to a postmortem conducted on Thursday at the Umash Funeral, Mwatha bled to death from a ruptured uterus. The report also identified Caroline’s male foetus was mutilated by surgical interference. The 37 year old activist disappeared on February 6. Her body was found six days later at the City Mortuary after frantic searches. Her father Stanslaus Mbai on Saturday told the Star that it was hard to explain the verdict that her daughter was pregnant and that she would resort to an abortion in a backstreet clinic. “It is hard to believe this, given that I have seen Caro all this while and had not noted the pregnancy,” Mbai said. The suspects, Michael Onchiri, Betty Akinyi, Richard Ramoya, Alexander Gitau, Georgia Achieng, Stephen Maina, Martin Mwangi and Godfrey Otieno, have been detained pending investigations. Click here for the latest political stories.