Joseph Kori's mistress Judy Wangui and taxi driver Michael Mathenge are expected to be arraigned before a Kiambu court this morning to face murder charges. Kori, the husband of the slain Mary Wambui, was on Thursday released from Gigiri police cells after detectives failed to link him to the murder of his wife. He spent three weeks in detention. Senior principal magistrate Stella Atambo had given police 14 days later added 10 to allow police complete investigations following application by senior state counsel a Mr Mbali. Wambui was reported missing on January 26 and her body later found the following day in Juja. She had allegedly left her Safari Park Gardens house for Kahawa Sukari, where she owned a hardware store. Preliminary police reports had indicated she had suffered a deep wound in the head inflicted with a blunt object. Her hands had bruises. The police recovered a Mercedes Benz believed to have been used to dispose of her body. The mother of two lived with her husband in their Garden Estate home in Nairobi. After detectives conducted forensic investigations, they were convinced Kori was not involved in either the planning or execution of the murder. Detectives had also analysed his phone communication to establish whether he was connected to the murder. The police believe Wambui died following a fistfight with Wangui, whom she accused of having a relationship with her husband Investigators said forensic analysis of Kori’s mobile phone on the day of the murder showed he was in Ngong, Kajiado county. Kori told the police he was with friends. Police are also expected to table in court a report on allegation that police women sprinkled pepper into Wangui's genitals during interrogation. The police believe Wambui died following a fistfight with Wangui, whom she accused of having a relationship with Kori. What caught the investigators eye was a text message that Kori sent his wife that day. Wambui was not at home when Kori arrived at around 10pm. He is said to have sent a text message to Wambui’s cell phone telling her to spend the night where she was. The text message would later turn out to be useful in the investigation. Police relied on it during interrogations. Kori explained that it was an innocent message. He said he did not know his wife had been murdered. According to police reports, the Kori was in Ngong when his wife was killed - His release leaves taxi driver Mathenge and mistress Wangui as the main suspects in case.