Football Kenya Federation President Nick Mwendwa feels gathering enough evidence to nail Harambee Stars ‘players accused of match-fixing by world governing body Fifa will be a tricky undertaking. According to Mwendwa, the mails and conversations between the players and the match-fixing agent are only a tip of the ice berg. This comes in the wake of allegations that have engulfed the nation in relation to a story, where former Stars’ defender George Owino has been implicated in a match-fixing scandal involving the national outfit between June 2009-2011, alongside convicted Singaporean international match-fixer Wilson Raj Perumal and two others . In a phone conversation with Radio Jambo breakfast show, Mwendwa, who is in France on official duty said they are awaiting for the final report from the Fifa Ethics Committee before making an official statement as the investigations are still on. “Match-fixing is very sensitive allegation that carries a life ban, a jail term or both. It breaches the world football governing body’s Code of Ethics,” he said. “Getting match-fixing evidence is not as easy as it looks. This is an international syndicate that involves a lot. There has to be motive and clear evidence of money exchanging hands through accounts and the specified match outcome.” “Fifa may have hundreds of mails exchanged between Owino and Perumal but we have to get the clips and find out how the mentioned players influenced the match. The video clips will easily tell how the suspected players influenced the match result, like scoring own goals, leaving the opposing striker unmarked to score easy goals or any other suspicious act,” he explained. The 2010 Fifa World Cup qualifier between Kenya and Tunisia, played on October 11, 2009 at Nyayo Stadium, is among the matches said to have been manipulated. Fifa’s integrity unit investigators also claim that Owino conspired to approach and recruit several Star’ players for match manipulation purposes. He allegedly accepted the offer and solicited money from Perumal in exchange for influencing the results of the matches. Former Posta defender Pascal Ochieng and Gor Mahia defender Julius ‘Awilo’ Owino were also mentioned as beneficiaries of the syndicate. Owino would get around Sh3 million for his part in the match fixing, according to Fifa. This is not the first time a Kenyan has been implicated in match fixing scandal. Former Harambee Stars’ goalkeeper Willis Ochieng currently the Gor goalkeeping coach was accused by a Finnish club IFK Mariehamn for allegedly having accepted bribes of Sh6m to fix two away games, which the club lost in 2011.