Sex tourism is rampant in Kilifi and will deepen if the government fails to protect children from not only tourists but also residents, an activist has warned. Grace Odembo of Okoa Sasa, a child rescue centre, says the government should audit and verify the background of foreigners who come posing as investors and charitable donors. “They are same people turning our children into commercial sex workers,“ she said. Odembo recommended that foreigners found culpable of child prostitution and sexual exploitation should be deported back to their countries and their business permits cancelled, as well as their rights to be in Kenya. She said the government should also come up with policies for hotels, clubs or any places frequented by tourists to vet guests before admitting them. “These foreigners accompany children to hotels and clubs, and hoteliers should be able to question who these children are, or how they are related,” she said. The government issued such a directive between 2006 and 2008. However, the order remained on paper, never being implemented. Odembo said if the guidelines were implemented, the situation would have been prevented before it spread. TAKING THE INITIATIVE But as we wait for the government to act on the menace, Okoa Sasa is already in action as they partner with a German NGO, Oliver Herbrich Kinderfolds, to save the girls. The programme targets survivors of sex tourism aged 15-17 to help them rebuild their lives. “Some of the girls get hooked to the life and find it difficult to abandon the money that comes with it. We, however, assist those willing to transform and have a fresh start,” Odembo said. Mtwapa police boss Joseph Muriuki said even though the cases are many, few are reported. He said people, especially victims, fear coming out for fear of being victimised by their families, who sometimes depend on them. “We cannot tell if someone is undergoing such torturous acts, unless they come out and speak, then the security will act on the information,“ he said.