Kenya Prisons are banking on Africa cross country champion Celliphine Chespol and world cross country senior women’s silver medallist Alice Aprot to shake off the opposition in the senior women’s 10km race during Saturday’s national cross country-cum-trials championships on Saturday in Eldoret. The two will team up with Lilian Kasait, Nancy Nzisa, Loice Chemno and Beatrice Ruto. Kenya Prisons’ head coach Gideon Chirchir said they are ready for the rivals and they hope to put their best foot forward. He said the warders chances are very high in all categories But they are especially counting on the women’s 10km as their stronghold. “We are ready for the event. We have been in Eldoret since Monday acclimatizing to the conditions and I believe we will be competitive in all the categories,” he added. He said Charles Muneria, Cornelius Kangongo, Jonah Nakeri, former Commonwealth Games 1,500m gold medallist Silas Kiplagat and Emmanuel Ng’atuny will spearhead the challenge in the senior men’s 10km race. World 1,500 metres silver medallist Timothy Cheruiyot leads the charge in the mixed relay event, where he will team up with Tabitha Wambui, Joash Kiplimo and Caroline Biwott. Chirchir was unfazed by the star athletes in both the Kenya Police and Kenya Defence Forces. “We are not scared of anyone. It’s competition and our team is ready for battle,” he noted, affirming that he has strong a team at his disposal for the eagerly anticipated event. “I have a very experienced team at my disposal and I know we will form the bulk of the Kenya team to Denmark next month,” he noted, adding that they have tested the course to be used on Saturday and all is well. “The course is fair. There are obstacles which the organisers have put but my team will be ready for the challenge,” added Chirchir. Meanwhile, Athletics Kenya (AK) have received a Sh3m boost towards this weekend’s trials from car dealers Toyota Kenya. Toyota Kenya’s managing director Arvinder Reel while handing over the cheque to AK said they are very excited to partner with athletes “We are building Toyota vehicles based on quality, durability, reliability and endurance and we all know that the marathon is all about the endurance and survival for the fittest,” he said. Reel reassured Toyota Kenya’s commitment to promote sports in the country, urging athletes to focus on the prize and not give up. Athletics Kenya president General Jack Tuwei who received the cheque acknowledged the sponsorship, saying they have received immense support from corporates across the country. “We are very grateful, and happy to receive this support. This will go towards supporting the cross country this weekend. I believe this is just a beginning of a longer partnership and good things to come,” he said.