The confession testimony of one of the accused persons in the murder of slain human rights lawyer Willie Kimani was for the second day put on hold by the court. This is after the defence objected for the second day claiming they needed time to consult their clients because the confession tape was provided yesterday morning. In the case, four APs including Fredrick Leliman, Stephen Cheburet, Sylvia Wanjiku, Leonard Mwangi and police informer Peter Ngugi, have denied murdering human rights lawyer Willie Kimani, his client Josephat Mwenda and taxi driver Joseph Muiruri. Defence lawyer Cliff Ombeta said the confession statement is key and he needs time to consult. Ombeta also said they had been supplied with the investigation diary that was incomplete accusing the police of hiding part of the diary because it favoured the accused persons. On Thursday the court had stood down the officer Geoffrey Kinyua who recorded the confession from Ngugi a police informer who allegedly confessed to the police how they killed Kimani, his driver and client. Read: Court to watch confession video in lawyer murder case Justice Jessie Lessit then directed the prosecution to supply the defense with the handwritten confession that had been produced in court by 1 pm. However, it emerged yesterday that the document was supplied to the defense in the morning making it impossible for them to proceed as they need time to consult. The confession is a very crucial part of the evidence that will link the accused to the gruesome murder of the three victims. Mwenda who was Kimani’s client had persisted in filing a case against an AP officer for violent treatment. The three were kidnapped after leaving the Mavoko law courts on June 23, 2016 and were tortured before being killed. Their bodies were retrieved on July 1, 2016, from the Athi River, near Donyo Sabuk police post. Yesterday the judge directed the prosecution to supply Ngugi with the OB records from Thindigua police station from August 8, to September 18, 2016, by 2 pm. She further directed the prosecution to also supply the OB from Kilimani police station to the defense on Monday morning. The trial resumes on Monday morning when the confession will finally be played to the court. Meanwhile, the bail review application of Leliman and Mwangi will be heard on March 26, way after the case will have been concluded. More: Officer to give evidence linking colleagues to Kimani murder Click here for the latest
political news