Kenya repeated history when the supervisory, delivery and launching of
projects functions was recently placed under Interior CS Fred Matiang’i. This is in the context that Deputy President William Ruto had pegged his
campaign on launching these projects and giving development goodies across the
country. These new roles made the Interior docket more powerful,  and their seeming removal from the Deputy
President deflated his docket and political image, which now looks diminished. Though there are many people who deny that Ruto has suffered loss of
image and status from these changes or there is anything at all political from
the move, the truth is that this chess move was more political than administrative.
Further, attempt not to understand or ignore it can only attract more similar
actions to make some point clear to Ruto. In politics, unspoken moves are meant
to be understood just well as spoken ones and can only be ignored at someone’s
peril. In 1960s, something similar happened between President Jomo Kenyatta,
Uhuru’s father, and Vice President Jaramogi Oginga Odinga, Raila’s father. Because of ideological differences and the struggle that had ensued
between the capitalist and socialist wings of Kanu, the conservative wing of
the party led by Tom Mboya clipped the wings of the position of party vice president,
which he was using to spread his influence countrywide. He split the vice presidency
into eight positions whose individual influence – including that of Jaramogi –
was greatly lessened. There were eight Kanu vice presidents. Though the intention of lessening Odinga’s influence was denied, hedid
not misunderstand reduction of his party status. He understood well that one
who chases you, need not tell you – akufukuzaye hakwambii toka. He left Kanu where
his image was besmirched and tattered to another party, KPU. He also the Vice
President. The point where Ruto now is —with lesser power than Cabinet Secretary
Matiang’I — is the same point the eight Kanu vice president were. Later, Foreign minister Njoroge Mungai could give directions to VP
Joseph Murumbi, who was also forced to retire from his position. Kenya is Uhuru’s boma. In this homestead he has had one wife, Ruto. But
while Uhuru’s marriage has been doing well, the handshake seems to have brought
to the homestead a second wife – Raila. Of course, Ruto has not liked the idea
of Raila as a second wife because of the threat she poses to him. Naturally,
the two wives have been at each other’s throat, with Raila having an upper
hand. But as Uhuru-Ruto marriage faces problems, his relationship with Raila
has been flourishing and unlikely to be dissolved. Ruto now has two problems – playing second wife to Raila and losing the working
status to Matiang’i. Holistically, however, Ruto actually has three problems. A husband that
is losing faith in him, a second wife who would be happy with his exit from
Uhuru’s marriage and Matiang’I, who has taken a chunk of status from him. While Ruto can survive these problems, he ought to learn from Kenyan and
other history that it is very difficult for a vice president to survive the
onslaught of a boss. Once under attack as Moi was, a vice president can lie low and make it
difficult for the boss to attack or simply retire like Joseph Murumbi and Josephat
Karanja did.  Moi’s declaration of September 1984 ought to teach Ruto what he is up against. “I call on all ministers, assistant ministers and
every other person to sing like parrots. During Mzee Kenyatta’s period, I
persistently sang the Kenyatta tune until people said: ‘This fellow has nothing
to say, except to sing for Kenyatta.’ I said: I did not have ideas of my own.
Why was I to have my own ideas? I was in Kenyatta’s shoes and, therefore, I had
to sing whatever Kenyatta wanted. If I had sang another song, do you think
Kenyatta would have left me alone? Therefore, you ought to sing the song I
sing. If I put a full stop, you should put a full stop. This is how the country
will move forward. The day you become a big person, you will have the liberty
to sing your own song and everybody will sing it.”  Just as Moi did not fight to survive, Ruto could also
play meek to survive.  