Several readers have asked me why Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp did not do any business during the transfer window which ended on Thursday. I put this to my club insiders and here is what they told me: The manager is happy with his squad and is feeling confident despite injuries like Joe Gomez’s fractured leg suffered at Burnley in December. Jurgen is content with his team options because he has four players coming back into contention. Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain has almost recovered from the nasty knee injury he suffered last April and Jurgen Klopp is excited that his attacking midfielder will be available very soon. As protection for Alex, he will play for only part of each of Liverpool’s Premier League matches as Klopp eases him back into the team. Self-proclaimed ‘I am one of the world’s top defenders’ Dejan Lovren has had a lot of bad luck since the World Cup. A stomach problem, concussion and a hamstring injury have kept him out of the team for several months. But he is steadily recovering and will be fit to play very shortly. Adam Lallana was an important part of Klopp’s team during his first 18 months in charge of Liverpool. Two lengthy injuries meant several months as a spectator and the team playing approach has moved on but Adam still remains a valuable option in midfield. Finally, Daniel Sturridge is a striker who will always score goals as he did when Salah and Firmino were off form after returning from the World Cup. He will not commit himself regarding his intentions when his contract expires in six months because injuries have lost him a starting place on the team sheet however for Jurgen Klopp having Daniel available helps him sleep at night. Arsenal injury problems building Arsenal have confirmed to me that Laurent Koscielny did not break his jaw in the FA Cup defeat to Man United. Romelu Lukaku appeared to accidentally kick Laurent in the side of the head. He was taken to hospital where an X-Ray revealed that the jaw is severely bruised but not broken. In the same match, centre-back Sokratis rolled his ankle and the Gunner’s told me yesterday that they expect him to be out for a month. Arsenal are facing a real injury crisis with Hector Bellerin already confirmed as being out for up to nine months with anterior cruciate ligament damage sustained during the win over Chelsea. Solskjaer has to wait over permanent role My understanding after talking with contacts at Man United is that Ole Gunner Solskjaer will have to wait in line with other potential managers to see if he is on the short list to take over the role permanently. There has been pressure from players, assistants and fans to appoint the Norwegian now but both Executive Vice-Chairman Ed Woodward and United’s American owners, the Glazer Brothers, are determined to wait until the end of this current season. Following their draw with Burnley on Tuesday, Solskjaer has notched up an incredible nine matches without defeat and this Sunday look for their tenth at Leicester. It is hard to imagine how any manager could deliver a more impressive job application and the players and fans agree! However, several members of the board are still keen on Tottenham manager Mauricio Pochettino despite Spurs’ management saying they will fight to keep him. Earlier in the season under the tactical style of Jose Mourinho, Paul Pogba, David De Gea and Anthony Martial were all considering their futures and not signing new contracts. Solskjaer has ended all that unrest. Ander Herrera underlined the new spirit at United by saying: “We enjoy scoring goals and we enjoy defending together. We are playing free and with a smile and everyone is playing for each other and results come much easier. I can make runs into the box, Paul (Pogba) can make runs and drive us forward, and we are allowed to go for goal. Ashley Young and Luke Shaw are also allowed to win the ball in our box and make runs up field and even into the opponents box. Even Nemanja Matic is allowed to shoot. We could not do that previously. We now have the belief that we can win every game.” Perhaps the United board and owners should take notice because every football club on the planet would love that amount of confidence and team spirit. Can Higuain cope with the Premier League? I am a fan of Gonzalo Higuain and I think Chelsea have loaned a striker who could solve their low scoring record despite Wednesday’s 4-0 hammering by Bournemouth. However, there are doubts and buying him is a risk. During spells at Real Madrid, Juventus, Napoli and AC Milan, he has scored over 250 goals. The worry is, how fit is Gonzalo? The Premier League is without doubt the world’s toughest league and he will find it more difficult to put the ball in the back of the net in the company of tough, hard tackling defences. Chelsea manager Mauricio Sarri has bet heavily on the Spaniard to solve his problems up front and has instructed his physio team to work hard on reaching maximum fitness for the new man. I have discovered that Sarri’s plan is to use his wide players, such as Hazard, to work down the wing and then cut inside to give the ball to Higuain who then holds the ball and moves towards goal where he will be expected to add the lethal strike into the back of the net. Sarri’s assistants have been told to train him hard and toughen him up for the physical battles ahead. Higuain is rather like Diego Costa, who left Chelsea last year, in that he likes to fight for the ball, likes to get inside the penalty area and boss defenders but we will have to see how he copes with the tough demands of battling the Virgil Van Dykes of the Premier League. If Higuain does well the loan can be turned into a permanent deal for £31.6m. Make no mistake, if Higuain fails and Sarri does not finish in the top four then expect owner Roman Abramovich to show him the exit door. Tottenham are injury prone team Tottenham has a thin squad compared to many of the top flight teams and they do not pay the super high wages of teams like Man City and Man United. Therefore it has become a problem for manager Mauricio Pochettino that only two senior first team players have escaped injury this season. Toby Alderweireld and Son Heung-min are the only players to remain injury free. Spurs have suffered 36 injuries since the beginning of the season and both Harry Kane and Dele Alli are out until March. Only Alderweireld remained playing when Son was away with his national South Korean team playing in the Asian Cup. Fortunately for Spurs, Son returned this week, played excellently and scored a spectacular drive against Watford which enabled them to win the game 2-1. Double blow for Thierry I was sorry to hear that Thierry Henry was sacked by Monaco in the French Ligue 1. To be honest the club itself is to blame for a run of poor results as it sold most of the great players who made them so formidable two seasons ago and Henry struggled with the lesser players he inherited. However, the sacking has had a knock on effect. Before he became Monaco’s manager Thierry was a regular Sky TV commentator. His sacking has diminished his credibility as a TV pundit and also Sky say he did not previously attract enough enthusiasm, possibly because of his laid back style…he rarely gets excited. Sky have told me there is probably no way back for him except for an occasional guest appearance. Lukaku facing tough competition In a heartfelt exclusive interview Manchester United striker Romelu Lukaku said he is fighting for his future at the Reds. Under the guidance of manager Ole Gunner Solskjaer, Marcus Rashford has firmly established himself as one of the first names on the team sheet. At the same time, Anthony Martial has improved beyond all hopes and now Alexis Sanchez is starting to play some of the football we know he is capable of. Lukaku has been left on the bench for the last four league games and only started in the FA Cup which usually gives second pick players a chance to get first team action. In the 3-1 win at Arsenal he set up two of the goals for Sanchez and Jesse Lingard and played very well. He said, “Competition is tough and intense—but in a good way. It’s all about the team.” Hatred for Newcastle owner, love for Rafa During Newcastle’s amazing win against Manchester City on Tuesday evening, the fan’s hatred against their owner Mike Ashley was red hot. Ashley owns a huge sports retail business and online internet empire and fans held up posters which discouraged people from buying goods from his company Sports Direct and given that the match was on TV their protest probably worked. There were also banners shouting ‘Ashley Out of our Club’ and ‘Where has all the money gone?’ On Tyneside, the area where Newcastle play, Ashley is enemy No1. Ashley and his board of directors have spent less on new players than any other Premier League club and he is still looking to sell up. Season tickets are up for renewal and many supporters are walking away and not renewing them as part of their Ashley protest. Meanwhile, Liverpool supporters cheered Rafa Benitez and Newcastle’s win because it meant their main title rivals Man City has lost three valuable points. Rafa is still a legend at Liverpool and much loved from the time he managed the team. He still supports many charities in the area, because that is the sort of man he is, and his family still live near Liverpool.