A governor and some CECs from a South Rift county are in panic after the new Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission CEO Twalib Mbarak (above) announced they are pursuing county chiefs and employees over corruption allegations. It is a county the EACC is likely to have interest in, considering the governor has no development record and appointees have become overnight millionaires. One CEC bought a huge piece of land in Kajiado county within months of his appointment. The official quickly put up a bungalow raising questions where he got the money, yet he was not known to be a man of means. A senior police officer in the department of Security of Government Buildings has become a pain to her colleagues at a building they protect in Community area. The officer harasses her juniors, insults them and reprimands them in public at the slightest provocation. But the show of power is not only limited to her uniformed colleagues. She also taunts members of the public and other private security guards stationed at the building. She is said to have both political and uniformed godfathers. A report has been filed against her at the Independent Policing Oversight Authority and at the Internal Affairs Unit. All eyes are on Deputy Inspector General APS Noor Gabow to intervene. A governor from the Coast has threatened to teach an acting managing director of a parastatal in the Transport ministry a lesson. A source has told Corridors the MD cancelled a lucrative tender awarded to the governor. The governor, who won the contract fairly, is angry that the man went against the advice of his board. The governor has told the man to tread carefully and should not visit his county. The parastatal’s board is said to be scheming how to bundle the man out. A former chairman of a commission is a sad man. The flamboyant man who used to throw his weight around had hoped a relative would replace him at the institution he headed. But despite promises and assurances from high offices that his preferred choice would succeed him, the “gods” had a different plan. The man had even started daily briefings for his relative to prepare him for the ‘takeover’. He had arranged a colourful handover of his staff and bodyguards to the new man. Just what did Interior CS Fred Matiang’i mean when he said he has rolled up his sleeves for a ruthless fight? Well, the CS, while addressing residents in Kisii in the local dialect, said he was ready to do whatever it takes to follow the instructions given to him by President Uhuru Kenyatta. However, what is not clear is what he wants to do in the coming days that requires him to roll up his sleeves. Only time will tell. Click here for the latest political news