On Sunday, an MP was captured on camera in a fistfight at a public event. Almost 48 hours later, the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission, which is charged with the implementation of the Ethics Act, has yet to communicate the next course of action to be taken against the officer who should set a good example. Will this be another case to be swept under the carpet or new EACC boss Twalib Mbarak (above) will use the misconduct to set the record straight? Only time will tell. ***** Is Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i aware of the activities of a senior immigration official giving the department a bad name? This is the question individuals who have come in contact with the officer are asking. The man, who heads one of the many teams that verify applications for passports, is accused of harassing applicants for money. To show how he is full of impunity, the official conducts unofficial vetting of applicants near Khoja mosque in the city centre. But all those who go through the process are required to cough up to Sh100,000. ***** A former powerful ODM governor, known for his deep pockets, is planning a major comeback. The former county boss has reactivated the team that campaigned for him in 2017 in readiness for the 2022 General Election. An insider has revealed that the politician has recruited young and energetic men and women to steer his 2022 plans. ***** That public universities are facing financial crises is not news anymore. However, a number of part-time lecturers at a popular public university in Western Kenya have been left wondering whether they were hired to teach for free. Reason? The lot has taught for more than four years with no pay. They wonder how long the finance officers at the varsity will keep giving empty promises with regard to their pay. The lecturers have resorted to withholding students marks if their pleas are not heeded. ***** A Cabinet Secretary has surprised his aides and close friends with his new appetite for prime properties – all which he buys in cash. The CS is said to have false walls in his bedrooms with cash stashed in between. Last year, he bought a Sh200 million prime property in hard cash. The property was sold by an Indian businessman. His driver has also accumulated questionable property. Our mole says the driver always boasts about how his boss carries huge sums of crispy Kenyan notes stashed in the boot of the vehicle whenever he’s travelling to his rural home. Click here for the latest political news