The video clip in which Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria was allegedly captured inciting youths to violence was not recorded in Gatundu Stadium. The MP is said to have made the remarks at the stadium. Assistant county commissioner Alexander Mukindia yesterday told a Milimani court he was the master of ceremonies and Kuria did not make the statements at the venue. “Should Kuria have made those remarks in Gatundu, we would have registered mass violence because Gatundu is a cosmopolitan area,” he said. In the video clip, Kuria is shown telling panga-wielding youth in his constituency to attack people opposed to the NYS projects. Kuria is accused of making the utterances at Gatundu Stadium on July 26, 2015, during a national government function. The MP denied the charges, saying he was quoted out of context. Mukindia said the youths had been hired to help the government in clearing bushes around Wamuguthuko River, which had been a hideout for illicit brewers. He said the youths were using pangas in the job. Mukindia said no such words were uttered by anyone in the stadium and he only saw the clips on media. “I’m a government officer and won’t allow anyone to make such remarks. I could be punished,” Mukindia told senior principal magistrate Kennedy Cheruiyot. “The environment and the spirit of the day was completely not in tandem with what we saw in the media. This was a meeting of one tribe except us - the officers – and the youths were happy the government had considered working with them.” The administrator said the video footage was taken in a bushy area. The function was held in Gatundu town, where state officials conducted an inspection tour of NYS projects. They visited Mukindia’s office, a road under construction, a hospital and the stadium where youths hired by the NYS were working. “The media personnel I contacted said the video can be edited elsewhere,” Mukindia said. Former NYS Director General Nelson Githinji attended the meeting. Githinji is listed as a witness against Kuria. The hearing continues on April 17 and 18.