The Nairobi county government awarded a Sh278 million garbage collection contract to a firm without prior experience. Aende Group and Company director Derrick Aende admitted on Tuesday that when the firm bid for the two-year waste collection tender, it had no prior business in the field. He was appearing before the Nairobi County Assembly Environment Committee. “The firm had no prior experience in garbage collection but its personnel did,” Aende said. Minority Chief Whip Peter Imwatok had asked why the firm presented the committee with a financial statement for the year ending December 31, 2017, yet the company was registered five months later. They called it was strange the firm registered on June 6, 2018, had audited accounts back to December 2017. Committee chairman John Kamau said the tendering process violated all the public procurement laws and was marred by illegalities, including lack of documents. The firm had only 15 secretariat members and 52 stewards, against 200 stewards required to clean the CBD. According to the tender evaluation documents, interested firms were required to have one to five years’ experience in waste collection and transportation, among others. Aende said his firm does not have garbage collection vehicles but hires them and also gets them from companies associated with his business. Since October last year when the firm signed the contract, it has received more than Sh25 million for garbage transportation, personnel protection equipment and stewards. Creative Consolidated Systems, which had been collecting garbage in the CBD since 2013, bid Sh316.9 million. Janel Agencies and Kemnest Investment had the lowest bid at Sh190.7 million. Aende’s firm was registered on June 6 last year, and won the tender on September 18. The tender was advertised on August 24 and the contract signed on October 2. Environment chief officer David Makori said all documents needed at the technical evaluation stage were in order. It emerged Aende had used another company’s (Galore Trading Company’s) National Environment Management Authoritcertificate to bid for the tender. Aende said the Nema certificate is issued to the vehicle associated in garbage collection and not to a company. He said their vehicles would be hired by his firm.