Court has found a former police officer guilty of assaulting and causing grievous harm to hawker in Mathare in 2011. Makadara Law Court Senior Principal Magistrate Angelo Kithinji found former AP Gregory Wabwire, guilty of viciously beating up Dominic Munywoki leading to several head injuries and a fracture on the leg. While issuing the judgement today, the magistrate said the prosecution had proved beyond reasonable doubt that Wabwire assaulted Munywoki causing him grievous harm. "The prosecution has proved beyond reasonable doubt that he (Wabwire) assaulted Munywoki," he said. The magistrate however allowed for the release of the convicted former police on a Sh.100, 000 cash bail, which had been paid when the accused was first charged in 2014, after Wabwire's lawyer pleaded for the later incarceration citing young family and other issues. Wabwire is said to have landed on Munywoki with a slap, after the eggs vendor, declined to move a cart that was parked by the road side. Read also: Ex-Ruaraka OCS Nahashon Mutua convicted of inmate's murder According to the charge, on Dec 31, 2011 Munywoki was selling eggs when Wabwire approached and ordered him to move a handcart that was parked next to the road. The 37 year old attempted to explain to him that he was not the owner of the handcart but it fell on deaf ears. The officer angrily roughed him up, slapped him and took him away from the scene. Members of the public tried to intervene in protest but were chased away by the other officers. Wabwire is said to have dragged Munywoki to Huruma Cheif’s Camp where he beat him several times with a metal bar leaving him with deep head cuts and a broken leg. Upon realizing that Munywoki was injured, the officer ordered his AP officers to take the victim to Huruma police station. At the station, Munywoki reported this assault at Huruma police station under the OB number 60/31/12/2011. He additionally obtained a P3 form that indicated the degree of harm he had sustained. Dominic was later hospitalized at Kenyatta National Hospital for two months. Meanwhile, after this incident, officer Wabwire went missing and was discharged from service. He was on the run for more than two years before he was finally arrested on 27th August 2014 at Nambale in Busia County after a tip-off and charged with assault and causing grievous harm to Munywoki. Senior Principal Magistrate Angelo Kithinji will submit the sentence in February 14, 2019. Read: How top cop killed trader in police cell Click here for the latest political news