Moments after accepting to be the Speaker of the Senate on August
31, 2017, I delivered my acceptance speech. In that inaugural address, I posed
a critical question to the senators — What next for our
Senate? How do we expand on the achievements of the first Senate? Two parliamentary sessions later, the Senate has made strides to
deliver on its mandate. Senators have rolled up their sleeves to work and
achieve more; dulling the leaking faucets at the back of their minds induced by
the rhetorical question that I asked close to one and a half years ago. The cardinal role of the Senate as set out in Article 96 of the
Constitution is to represent the counties and protect their interests and those
of their governments. To this end, we consider and pass Bills concerning
counties and determine allocation of national revenue to the county
governments, while providing oversight over these revenues.  LEGISLATIVE PERFORMANCE The second Session of the 12th Parliament recorded
47 published Senate Bills. As at the end of the Session — during which a total of 94 sittings were held — three of the bills had been passed and
assented to, while 13 had been referred to the National Assembly for
consideration. They are yet to be concluded. Another 28 bills are at various
stages of consideration, while two are still undergoing concurrence. It is through various legislative instruments (motions, petitions
and statements), however, that senators dedicatedly discharged their role of
representation. This was manifested through the significant number of
Statements (131) requested earlier on in the Session. A closer look at the Constitution may give credence to the
affinity demonstrated — but quickly remedied — by Senators, to
representation over legislation. Article 109 limits the legislative role of the Senate to “Bills
concerning county governments”. It is, however, important to note that while
the legislative mandate of the Senate is limited to this extent, the oversight
and representative mandates are not. Whereas commentators have claimed the Senate has in some instances
overstepped its mandate, our position is clear: We are fully empowered under
the Constitution to consider and deliberate any matter of public concern. The Senate under the leadership of the 11th Parliament was
steadfast in agitating for consistent annual increments in allocation of
national revenue to the counties. From an allocation of Sh210 billion in the
2013-14 financial year, a 56 per cent increase was noted within five years with
Sh327 billion being set aside for the 2017-18 financial year. The current Senate has not faltered in the set precedent of
ensuring increased budgetary allocation to the grassroots. The Division of Revenue
Bill, 2018 set aside Sh372 billion for counties in the 2018-19 financial year.  OVERSIGHT AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS The onus, as provided for by the Constitution, is on the Senate to
ensure funds allocated and disbursed to the counties are prudently utilised to
benefit the county-folk and not a few individuals. In view of this, the Senate’s focus through its County Public
Accounts and Investments Committee has been able to ensure objective oversight. It
is based on a simple principle — to
whom much is given, much is required. As the Senate
agitates for increased resources for counties, it is the responsibility of each
the governments to account for its expenditure. Quid pro quo of sorts ( something
for something). That has been the
resounding message from the Senate and it has finally struck a chord. A few governors
who avoided appearing before the previous Senate­ have honoured
invitations to this Senate. The Inaugural “Senate Mashinani” sitting of the
Senate held in September last
year in Uasin Gishu was a landmark outreach initiative that led
to outstanding public participation and engagement. Through other fora, such as
the annual devolution conferences and legislative summits, intergovernmental
relations have improved. The success of these interactions has bolstered and
continues to inspire the Senate. Going forward, the Senate will be very intentional in initiating
and strengthening collaborative linkages while deepening existing partnerships
with national and county government departments and agencies, regional and
international development partners as well as non-state actors. During the session, the Senate, through its committees, has interacted
with Kenyans from all walks of life. In a country acutely polarised along
various axes such as ours, we have borne witness that we firmly believe and are
keen to promote and protect devolution. The current administration has matched
that belief with strong economic support and a solid road map in the name of
the Big Four Agenda. As the Senate sets out for its third Session, I reaffirm to the
nation our unwavering support for the Big Four agenda, which has largely been
driven by the Executive. Considering that three of the agenda items – universal
healthcare, food security and affordable housing – are devolved functions or
dependent on counties, the Senate will play a central role by fast-tracking
devolution compliant legislation. As a pro-devolution Senate, we are guided by the need to respond
to key priorities of the counties as well as the many challenges they have to
surmount. A thorn in the flesh for most County Governments has been the delayed
disbursement of resources from the National Treasury that has hampered service
delivery due to unmet obligations to suppliers and service providers. The
Senate shall reinvigorate its energies to address this destabilising challenge. This is a defining Session for the Senate and it shall live up to
its billing.  Kenneth Lusaka is the Speaker of the Senate. 