It can be a daunting and confusing task, especially because you're never short of variety when it comes to tiles. You want your home to be unique and you want to create a deliberate experience for yourself and your family. You want to consider safety and you want to get the technicalities right. It can be overwhelming! Here are some tips to help you with your decision making. 1. Ceramic tiles vs Porcelain tiles These two types are the most common and generally the most available so we'll start here. The characteristic of ceramic tiles is that they have a glazed surface. These tiles are best used on walls or areas that will have very little traffic. They are also ideal for places like splashbacks in the kitchen or washing areas. On the other hand, porcelain is more dense and durable compared to ceramic. This means that it is a better material for a floor tile. They are best used for high-traffic areas like a main entrance. Porcelain tiles are the best choice if you are looking strength, moisture resistance and versatile design. They come in a greater variety of styles, colors and textures. However, not all porcelain products are made equal. You can get more information for trusted vendors such as Tile and Carpet Center. 2. Tile size and Room size Small residential areas such as kitchens, bathrooms and toilets are best fitted with small-sized tiles. On the other hand, larger tiles will make the room feel larger and airier. If you use floor tiles on the walls, you get the effect of making the space seem more cohesive. However, you can’t use wall tiles on the floor. A floor tile has a harder glaze is made of harder materials to withstand traffic. In a small room, light-colored tiles will make the space feel bigger. If you have a large room, there are more options; you can chose from light to dark tiles. 3. Tile Color and location Assuredly, this is one thing you'll never be short of: the variety of colors and variations of the same shade. A great trick to begin with when making a choice is to mix and match two different shades of the same colors. It creates an effect that's pleasant to the eye. The darker shade adds depth and the lighter one can add some shine to the combination. A few basic color rules to observe a. If you want to make a room seem happy and warm, use vibrant, playful colors;b. The easiest to integrate into any decor are neutral colors;c. Darker colors can add depth. However, consider that they may make the room look smaller than it is;d. Lighter shades make spaces look bigger. They can also brighten a room with the least natural light; It is helpful to consider the feeling that you want to achieve in the room because tiles complement other design features. In a bathroom, you may want to achieve a restful relaxing setting. This means that you should go for colors that blend well together. In the kitchen, you may want a more vibrant look so you should choose colors that contrast. 4. Cost Your budget will dictate your choice of tiles. Quality tiles come at a greater cost. However, this shouldn't stop you especially because there are wonderful deals you can find in the market that will lead you to cost savings. The most pronounced one in the market right now is the Big Annual Sale at Tile and Carpet centre. Besides favorable deals, you can get solid advice and guidance from their technicians and personnel. You can find the stores in Mombasa at Lecol building along Mbaraki road and in Nairobi at Mashiara Park in Loresho or at Parkside Towers on Mombasa road. The Tile and Carpet Centre brand has extended the boundaries of tiles in Kenya: formats, colours, surfaces and textures feature an advanced concentration of style and design.They use the best production technologies, allowing preparation of a wide range of floorings and facings that reflect an extremely contemporary attitude, ideal for all uses, even the most uncommon. The materials used are original and refined: single firing, double firing, glazed porcelain and full body porcelain stoneware. The surfaces feature extremely captivating tactile and material effects in classic, elegant or rustic styles. The finishes, with their myriad aesthetic possibilities, meet and fulfil any technical requirement: natural, gloss polished, satin polished, pre-polished, lapped, vitrified, structured, structured ribbed, bush-hammered and satin finish rustic. The colors and formats are also available in multiple options. Each collection allows for the creation of infinite modular combinations and inventive arrangements to achieve any design and architectonic concept. The Big Annual Sale is on up to Sunday 14th July and you can walk in from 8:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. on Monday to Saturday and 10:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. on Sundays.