Lewis Hamilton has all but ruled out fighting for victory in the German Grand Prix if the heatwave extends into the weekend. Hamilton’s Mercedes machinery toiled in the extreme temperatures in Austria last month, with the world champion finishing only fifth. His team-mate Valtteri Bottas crossed the line third. Mercedes’s troubles aided Red Bull’s Max Verstappen to drive to victory in Spielberg, the Dutchman becoming the only non-Mercedes driver to win a race this year. The mercury reached 40 degrees in the Hockenheim paddock on Thursday, and the hot weather is set to remain for practice. “I imagine that if it stays this hot we will be in trouble,” said Hamilton. “If the next race is this hot we will be in trouble, too. So, fingers crossed the weather comes in. It is definitely a good thing for us if it rains.” Mercedes have arrived in Germany armed with revised sidepods, hoping to improve the overheating problems which thwarted their performance at last month’s Austrian race. But Hamilton warned: “There is not much we can do with the car when it gets hot because it is a big design issue. It is not easy to change. We are working towards it, but they are small steps, which won’t make a massive difference.” Despite Hamilton’s concerns, the world champion will start his team’s home event with a 39-point buffer over Bottas. He has won seven of the opening 10 races and celebrated his drive to a record sixth British Grand Prix victory a fortnight ago with some downtime in Los Angeles. “My first season with McLaren was pretty strong, but since then, I cannot recognise a year being as strong as this one, that’s for sure,” he added. “During my days at McLaren, the most wins I ever took in a single year was five, but I have seven already this season. It is an outlier, but it is something we are proud of. We have to keep our head down and keep pushing.” Hamilton, 34, praised the former prime minister Theresa May in a social media post on Wednesday. The Englishman cited her ‘balls of steel’. On her replacement, Boris Johnson, he added: “He has got a lot to live up to, a lot to prove. I hope he does well for the country because the UK is such a powerful place. I really hope things get better and he is the man to do it.” Hamilton’s Mercedes team, meanwhile, have revealed a special one-off livery which they will run this weekend to mark 125 years of motorsport and their 200th F1 race. Remarkably, Hamilton has won 59 times for the Silver Arrows.