Jorginho is determined to forge a new identity and prove his quality to Chelsea supporters after the departure of Maurizio Sarri. The Italy international midfielder was closely allied to Sarri who worked with him at Napoli and brought him to Stamford Bridge for £57million. They were so entwined that when Chelsea fans turned on the manager in mid-season they also vented their anger at Jorginho. “He was my manager, he wasn’t my friend,’ said the 27-year-old who was born in Brazil and moved to Italy at the age of 15. “We worked together for four years but this is another time, it is another page, another chapter, another time in my life. I look forward to that now. “Sarri has left and I have stayed here and I need to do a job for my team at Chelsea. “I have a long contract, four more years and I am very happy at the moment and very happy at Chelsea and hope to be here for a long time.’ Jorginho was the fulcrum of Sarri’s 4-3-3 system and would dictate the tempo from deep in midfield. Lampard has changed his role slightly in pre-season and has deployed him in the central pairing in a 4-2-3-1 formation, in tandem with Mateo Kovacic. N’Golo Kante will be involved when he is fully recovered from the knee injury he suffered at the end of last season. “This formation is new for me but I like it,’ said Jorginho, who created a goal for Tammy Abraham in the 2-1 win against Barcelona in Saitama on Tuesday. “Last season we had three midfielders and now we are two. We are trying to work hard and we need to run a lot, but I think we can do many good things. “I have more space to create and it means I am freer and can do more things with my creativity. “I like it and think I can adapt. Of course, you need a little bit of time but we are working very well. “My characteristic is to be there and to control the game, so I think I will be there to control and organise the team. “I stay in the middle and my team-mates can go to attack. Maybe it will mean more assists, maybe not.” Lampard praised Jorginho’s attitude and hailed him as one of the team’s ‘drivers’ who will be an important example for the younger players. He also expects to be more familiar with the English game in his second season at Chelsea. “I learnt a lot in the last season with the intensity and aggressiveness in our system,’ said Jorginho. “I think I can help my team-mates this season. I think I am more aggressive. “We have put in a lot of work for the new season. We want to win every match. “We have to try to win every game and try to think about the next game, then the next game, then the next game, then we’ll see what happens.”