Good morning, It won't be just maths, Kiswahili and science anymore. Schools will soon be compelled to teach learners about anti-terrorism, how to detect explosives and react in case of an attack,  if a  Bill in Parliament is passed. The Bill proposed by Turkana Woman Representative Joyce Emanikor seeks to reduce the risk posed by bombs, especially improvised explosive devices (IEDs). Here are the other stories making headlines in the Star this morning. MPs have changed tack in the implementation of the controversial two-thirds gender rule in a new proposal that could compel political parties to nominate more women before elections. Legislators want the law amended to require political parties to ensure that at least a third of its candidates for parliamentary and county assembly elections are of either gender. A new report reveals the Jubilee administration's unbridled spending on non-essentials in what paints a gloomy picture of the country's development prospects. The budget implementation review report of the office of Controller of Budget Agnes Odhiambo shows more than three-quarters of the total revenue raised in the first nine months of the 2018-2019 financial year went to recurrent expenditure. Her life and that of her four children took a U-turn immediately the person she had loved and shared bittersweet memories with took his last breath. Martha* (not her real name) had vowed to love and care for her husband in sickness and in health, and had stood by him even when the doctors gave up.  A member of one of the families whose loved one's bodies was found decomposing in Tsavo North Park in March has received threats to go slow on the matter. Abdi Godana, whose relative's remains are suspected to be one of the six found on March 12, has said the threats are people he believes to be police officers.  The directors of National Bank of Kenya(NBK) have complained that the KCB Group undervalued the company by almost 38 per cent in the proposed takeover offer. The board, in the advisory circular to its shareholders, said the fair valuation is one KCB share for every 6.23 NBK shares and not 1 for every 10 as offered. 