DPP Noordin Haji has ordered the arrest of Treasury CS Henry Rotich, PS Kamau Thugge and other senior government officials over the Kimwarer and Arror dams scandal. He on Monday said senior government officials flouted procurement rules and committed illegalities in the Arror and Kimwarer dams scandal. A total of 28 officials and entities are to be charged. They include: EAC PS Susan Koech, Kerio Valley Development Authority managing director Kipchumba Kimosop, Treasury chief economist Kennedy Nyachiro and Treasury director of resource mobilisation Jackson Kinyanjui. Others to be arrested are: Inspector General of State Corporations Titus Muriithi, KVDA head of supply chain William Kipkemboi, Paul Serem (manager, engineering services), Francis Chepkonga , Samuel Kimutai , David Juma, Patrick Kiptoo, Elizabeth Kebenei and Esther Kiror of the tendering committee. From the ad hoc technical and financial committee, the following are to be arrested: Moses Kipchumba, Nelson Korir, Isaac Kiiru, Patrick Kipsang, Frederick Towett, Jotham Rutto, Charity Muui, Geoffrey Wahungu and David Ongare. Boniface Lengisho from Nema also faces arrest. CMC di Ravenna Italy and Kenya have also been mentioned. "Being cognizant that corruption always fights back and that there may be elements who may seek to exploit these indictments to instigate social unrest we have put in place mechanisms to monitor any such attempts, which will be countered with whole of government response," Haji said. The offences committed by those implicated include conspiracy to defraud, wilful failure to comply with applicable procedures and guidelines relating to procurement and engaging in a project without prior planning. Other offences are: abuse of office, committing an offence of financial misconduct, fraudulent acquisition of public property, knowingly giving a misleading document to Principal and wilful neglect to perform official duty. Haji said the mentioned officials should step aside from their offices. Haji and Directorate of Criminal Investigations boss George Kinoti flew to Italy on June 10 to conclude investigations into the Arror and Kimwarer dams scandal. The two met their counterparts in Turin to discuss the progress of the multi-billion shillings scandal. The DCI was probing the possible loss of Sh21 billion meant for the construction of the two multi-purpose dams in Kerio Valley. Kinoti started the investigations in December last year and because of the complex nature of the case, has sought help from state organs including the National Intelligence Service.