Tottenham have contacted Juventus over an audacious £80million swoop for striker Paulo Dybala. In a shock move which would deliver a stunning statement of intent, the beaten Champions League finalists are ready to spend big in a bid to deliver the silverware the club’s supporters crave. Spurs officials have spoken to their counterparts in Turin over the 25-year-old striker and are ready to break their own transfer record - set earlier this summer—to bring him to north London. Dybala, an Argentina international, is regarded as one of the best forwards in the world and his capture would be regarded as a huge coup for Mauricio Pochettino. He has suffered from the arrival of Cristiano Ronaldo at Juventus, scoring just 10 goals last season, and the Italians are thought to be prepared to listen to offers. While a successful move—which would smash the £65m agreed with Lyon for Tanguy Ndombele earlier this month— is regarded as ambitious, Spurs are serious about exploring the possibility of bringing Dybala to the club and setting up what could become a fearsome partnership with Harry Kane in the process. It can be disclosed that initial contact was made around a month ago, and the fascinating prospect remains on the radar as chairman Daniel Levy looks to back his manager - although Manchester United and Paris Saint-Germain are both reported to be in the running. In February last year, before Spurs played Juventus in the Champions League last-16, Pochettino hailed his compatriot. “It’s always nice to play against the best in the world,” he said, before describing Dybala as ‘a special talent’. “Seeing him on the pitch is wonderful, even if he might cause you a few problems,” he added. Juventus subsequently won 2-1 at Wembley, clinching a 4-3 aggregate victory, with Dybala scoring the winner. Earlier this week, Spurs sold Vincent Janssen to Mexicans Monterrey for £8m and while they have offered Spaniard Fernando Llorente a new deal on reduced terms, Kane is the only recognised out-and-out striker on the books - although Lucas Moura and Heung-min Son can step in. When asked if highly-rated 17-year-old striker Troy Parrott could fulfil the role of understudy to Kane, Pochettino suggested a new arrival could be in the pipeline. “Today, yes [he could be part of the squad], tomorrow, I don’t know,” he said. “We’re working with the [young] players, trying to provide the best platform and possibility for them to perform and be comfortable with the first team. He’s still so young but we’ll see what happens at the end of the transfer window. If we have the squad that we have today, of course he’s going to have the possibility to be with the first team.” In what could prove to be a busy window, Tottenham have already sold Janssen and Kieran Trippier. Danny Rose is at home and may well be next out of the door. Calls have been made enquiring about taking the left-back but the club have had no concrete interest as of yet. Teenage full back Ryan Sessegnon should arrive from Fulham, and while the future of playmaker Christian Eriksen remains unclear, there is interest in Giovani Lo Celso, although a move for the Real Betis midfielder is not imminent.