Jose Mourinho has admitted he is ‘missing football’ and is ‘full of fire’ for his next challenge in the game. The Portuguese manager was sacked by Manchester United on December 18 last year and has resisted the temptation to make a swift return to the dug-out despite receiving offers. Though the former Chelsea and Real Madrid coach insists he will wait for the right opportunity to come along, he is finding a blank pre-season a little surreal. Mourinho told Sky Sports News: “This is basically the first time I have time to think, the first time I am in Setubal at the end of July or beginning of August in more than 20 years. I have some time to think, to rethink, to analyse and what I feel is exactly that ‘Ze’ [Mourinho nickname as a boy] is full of fire! “My friends tell me ‘enjoy your time, enjoy your July, enjoy your August, enjoy what you never had’. Honestly, I can’t enjoy. I am not happy enough to enjoy. I miss my football, I have the fire, I have a compromise with myself, with people that love me, with so many fans that I have around the world, so many people that I inspired.” “Ze has to be Ze and Ze until the last day, but I don’t see the last day because my next move will be like the start! “I don’t feel it’s just one more year in accumulation of how many years I’ve worked, how many titles I’ve won. That is history, that is the museum! “My future will start in my next move and, as I was saying, it looks a little bit ridiculous with so many beautiful things around me and so many things I didn’t [have] for so many years, but I can’t really enjoy my free time.” Mourinho, 56, has rejected offers from his former club Benfica and a lucrative £88m (Sh11bn) contract from a Chinese Super League club since his acrimonious departure from Old Trafford before Christmas. He says his intention is to return to club management and only at a club from one of the top five European leagues - the Premier League, La Liga, Serie A, Ligue 1 and Bundesliga. While Mourinho did not rule out one day taking charge of his native Portugal, he said: “But a national team job for me... one match per month? Lots of office. No pitch. No matches. Wait two years for a European Championship. Wait two years for a World Cup... no. Still no!