Jurgen Klopp has moved to reassure Liverpool about his long-term future and insisted there should be no concern about him not entering into contract discussions. Tom Werner, Liverpool’s chairman, said in May that Klopp could ‘stay as long as he likes’; the German has three seasons remaining on the six-year deal he signed in June 2016 but Fenway Sports Group, the club’s owners, would readily enhance and improve his current £7million-a-year terms. FSG have always had faith that Klopp would restore Liverpool to the summit of football, a point illustrated by the fact they began improving his initial contract three months after they appointed him in October 2015. There were, however, indications in the aftermath of Liverpool’s Champions League triumph that Klopp may be prepared to take a sabbatical but he addressed the topic for the first time at Notre Dame University, prior to their friendly match against his old club Borussia Dortmund last night. “I cannot imagine a day (when I will not be Liverpool manager) but it is not important,” said Klopp.  “I don’t want ever to be in a situation where people are annoyed that I am still here. That’s the truth. You have that situation in football. It must always be a win-win situation. “At this moment, it is 100 per cent and we will see how long that will be. Whatever discussions came up... a few headlines that I saw, not a lot, that I will finish for sure in three years, that I will sign a contract and all that stuff. I have three years. It is all good. I love this team — they are brilliant. “The age group of the boys is good; my age is good for what I have to do. The owners like what I do; I like what the owners are doing. I will not leave before the contract is ending. That is my side. We have enough time to make decisions in that department. There is no need to do it now.” Liverpool are expected to provide the sternest opposition to Manchester City in the race for the Premier League when the new seasons begins; the two teams face each other in the Community Shield at Wembley on August 4 and Klopp believes this growing rivalry is good for each team. “It would be great to be around Man City again,” said Klopp. “That would mean we have a chance to go past them. They are the favourite again. We chase them. I don’t think they would have made 98 points if we were not putting pressure on them.”