Paul Pogba joined his Manchester United team-mates as they flew to Australia for their pre-season tour. The United squad were due to fly out after training at Carrington on Sunday and there had been reports that some of Pogba’s team-mates were unsure if he would be joining them. The Frenchman wants to quit United, with Real Madrid and Juventus keen to sign him, and his agent Mino Raiola admitted over the past few days that he was trying to engineer a move. But Pogba joined the likes of Jesse Lingard, manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer, David de Gea and Diogo Dalot for the long-haul trip to Perth. Pogba will have plenty of time to catch up with his team-mates on the 17-hour direct flight to Perth, which will set the record for the longest non-stop flight ever from Manchester. After the two matches in Australia, the tour goes on to Singapore and China. United players were pictured arriving at their Carrington training ground on Sunday morning. Pogba wasn’t snapped as he was reported to be hidden in the back of his Mercedes driven through the gates by his regular driver. Pogba had been given an extended break following international duty and it is understood some of his team-mates were unsure whether he would be joining them this weekend. On Saturday, he posted clips on social media of his training alone in New York, having been there on an adidas trip, while his agent Mino Raiola, over the past few days, admitted he was trying to engineer a move out of Old Trafford. Pogba has made it clear he wants to leave the club, and is currently a target for Real Madrid and Juventus. Juventus are reportedly preparing a £120million bid for the Frenchman, who left the club in 2016 to rejoin United. Meanwhile Real Madrid are reportedly ready to offer £72million plus Gareth Bale or Isco in an attempt to prise him away from Manchester. However, United’s valuation of £150million is considerably more than either club have offered so far. We can expect more twists and turns in the Pogba transfer saga as the summer goes on.  UNITED PRE-SEASON SCHEDULE July 13: Perth Glory (Optus Stadium, Perth) July 17: Leeds United (Optus Stadium, Perth) July 20: Inter Milan (ICC Cup - Singapore National Stadium, Kallang) July 25: Tottenham Hotspur (ICC Cup - Hongkou Stadium, Shanghai) July 30: Kristiansund (Ullevaal Stadium, Oslo) August 3: AC Milan (ICC Cup - Principality Stadium)