The Jubilee Party has given Kiambu MCAs seven days to hold elections of the House leadership to replace impeached officials. The party on Monday ratified the impeachment of the Leader of Majority  Anthony Ikonya and his deputy Alex Kabuu. Chief whip James Kimani resigned while his deputy Margret Njeri was aslso kicked out. Over 60 Jubilee party MCAs out of 92 passed a vote of no confidence in the House leadership. The removed leaders were accused of collusion with the executive, inability to handle party members, poor performance, intimidation and being unruly. The county legislators have proposed Ndeiya MCA Gideon Gachara, while Ann Wanjiku (Nominated) becomes his deputy. Gachara was among the MCAs who challenged the county’s controversial supplementary budget in court. Simon Karema (Theta) is the new whip. Nominated MCA Margaret Mwango will be his deputy. The MCAs agreed the leaders were unable to steer the party members to the required productivity. The MCAs had last week held a kamukunji at the assembly lounge to finalise the impeachment plot. Speaker Stephen Ndichu was kicked out of the kamukunji after he tried to intervene to get them to drop the motion of no confidence. Kiambu county assembly and the county government have been marred by a myriad of challenges, especially of leadership. In June, 13 current and former senior officials were questioned by detectives from the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission. The anti-graft agency had cast its net wider as it traced alleged stolen funds from the county since 2016. In the assembly, members expressed concerns that the House leadership had been bulldozing motions and bills at the behest of the executive. They have allegedly been denying members time to scrutinise motions and bills as per the law. Among the motions and bills passed in this manner were the Kiambu County Finance Bill 2018, Kiambu County Enforcement Bill 2018, supplementary budgets 1 and 2 2018-19 and the Employment Bill. The MCAs also noted that the leadership has never convened any Jubilee Party meeting despite numerous calls by members. This, they said, had led to unresolved issues among party members. They also complained of intimidation of anyone who was vocal in oversighting the county government. MCAs said the government of Governor Ferdinand Waititu has been using the assembly leadership to intimidate them. They said Kiambu residents have now branded all MCAs as having been pocketed by the governor due to the failure of the House leadership. (edited by O. Owino)