Secular singer Vivian says a popular government official tried to lure her into sex while she was seeking a breakthrough in the industry. "It was in 2015 when I was new in the industry, and because he knew I wanted to succeed, he made sexual advances," Vivian told Word Is yesterday. The popular singer has had enough of unwanted advances from the married politician, and she decided to call him out on his bad manners. She narrated the ordeal on her Facebook page. “I have decided to go public about something that is causing me discomfort. Some popular senior government official has been relentlessly been on my case for the last one week," she said. “I have continuously told him I can’t sleep with him as he demands. He doesn’t seem to stop, despite all my attempts to stop him. Let him know this, I don’t sleep with married men. He should respect his wife." Vivian added, “Second, sex to me must have a meaning. It’s a gift for married couples only. Thirdly, he is twice my age. Please! Gosh! Wish the wife was able to tame her man. If he doesn’t stop stalking me, I will publicly expose him and tag his wife. Why do some men do this to their wives? What happened to faithfulness?” Responding to why she felt it was the right time to speak about it, Vivian said, "I felt it is something that happens to so many young girls who are trying to venture into the industry. It is the way they use to lure young people and they know definitely some will agree." The mother of one also remembers a time when she was in an abusive relationship. "I have been in a physically abusive relationship, although it happened once and I walked out after that," she said, advising people in similar circumstances to walk away. Vivian is known for her songs 'Teren Teren' and 'Sua Sua'. She is currently promoting her new song 'Cheza Chini', featuring Naiboi and Savara of Sauti Sol. "I have known Naiboi for a bit, when he had the hit song with Timmy, 'Welle Welle'. I also had a hit at the time and we used to be called for shows together, so we became familiar with each other," she said. "Savara was on the phone with Naiboi, who asked him to pass by the studio then he said, by the way, niko tu hapa, let me pitia. So he came to the studio and now we were looking for a chorus." "So we gave him time and he came up with this idea, and we felt it would be a perfect blend, like two songs in one," Vivian said.