Liverpool have shown interest in bringing Real Madrid captain Sergio Ramos to the Premier League this summer, according to reports in Spain. Ramos is said to be at loggerheads with the Madrid hierarchy after a poor season for the club, which came to a head with a heated argument following their Champions League elimination by Ajax. The 33-year-old Spanish star is now understood to be considering a final major move of his career, and Jurgen Klopp’s Liverpool have emerged as one of the surprise names thrown into the pool of speculation. Ramos is far from favoured on Merseyside following his antics in last season’s Champions League final, during which he injured Mohamed Salah and caused the Egyptian to depart the field with a shoulder injury. Ramos then later exchanged words with Reds defender Dejan Lovren, with a feud continuing for several months and culminated in a social media post which saw the Croatian international handed a one-match ban. Despite this, Spanish publication AS have claimed Liverpool would be in for Ramos if he does decide to leave Madrid. AS go on to suggest that the Reds are keen on the possibility of pairing Ramos with Premier League Player of the Season Virgil van Dijk. The player has an impossible £800million release clause inserted into his contract, meaning any departure would have to be agreed by Ramos and the club. Following the Ajax defeat earlier in the season, Ramos is understood to have defended his team-mates when president Florentino Perez stormed into the dressing room. AS report that Ramos’ part in the argument included: “I’ve given everything and I’ve broken my face for this badge and for you, but if you want to throw me out, pay me and I’m going.” Ramos has however toyed with the idea of leaving the Spanish capital before, and publicly flirted with the possibility of joining Manchester United in 2015—only to strategically use the Red Devils as a bargaining tool to get a new bumper contract in Madrid which runs until 2020. This time around, Ramos has again been linked with Manchester United, along with Juventus and a potential big money switch to China.