Cabinet Secretary for Foreign Affairs Amb. Monica Juma arrived in Washington DC on Monday afternoon for the inaugural Bilateral Strategic Dialogue between Kenya and the US. The delegation of Kenya also includes Interior CS Fred Matiangi and high level government officials from the Ministries of Defence, Interior, Trade and Foreign Affairs. The first annual meeting will be held from May 7 to May 8, 2019. This is after U.S President Donald J. Trump and President Uhuru Kenyatta established the Dialogue at the White House on August 27, 2018, when they elevated the bilateral relationship to a Strategic Partnership. The Strategic Partnership is grounded in shared values, mutual cooperation, and a common vision for free, open and secure societies. Ambassador Monica Juma will jointly sign the strategic dialogue framework agreement with Deputy Secretary John J. Sullivan on May 7. On May 8, the two countries will be holding a high-level meeting organised around four thematic pillars. These include economic prosperity, trade, and investment; defense cooperation; democracy, governance, and civilian security; and multilateral and regional issues. CS Juma thanked the US Government for convening this first session of the BSD. "I wish to thank the US Government for hosting the inaugural meeting of the BSD. This is a clear demonstration of its commitment to our strategic partnership. The Kenyan delegation looks forward to productive engagements in the light of the very successful preparatory sessions that have taken place so far," she said. The CS also met with David Trachtenberg, Deputy Undersecretary for Policy, U.S Department of Defence on Monday. Last month, US Ambassador to Kenya Kyle McCarter paid a courtesy call to Deputy President William Ruto at his Karen office in Nairobi where he reiterated US' commitment to bolster trade ties and explore new opportunities to advance commerce, which will be mutually beneficial. The DP said this is in line with Washington's desire to deepen collaboration in manufacturing, renewable energy, health and our push to actualise Jubilee Government's Big Four Agenda.