Is there a tiff between ODM deputy treasurer Olga Karani and a section of party officials? Well, sources whispered to Corridors that recently, secretary general Edwin Sifuna overturned a letter she had written to the IEBC with regard to an MCA nominee in Narok county. Some sources claimed Karani wrote a letter, nominating a new individual without consulting party bosses. Sifuna then wrote to IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati disowning Karani and allegedly saying the committee on nomination she chaired after the 2017 polls had long been disbanded. Karani has been blamed by some ODM insiders of nominating some individuals who had done nothing to the movement and whose names were heard for the first time when they were nominated for the top jobs. What is happening at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? Why are some staff bitter with the ministry’s leadership? There are claims of a lack of consultation and outright sabotage. Sources claimed some staff are being seen as “Amina’s people, in reference to former Foreign Affairs CS Amina Mohamed.  For two days now, rumours have been swirling along Harambee Avenue among some ministry staff that CS Monica Juma had prematurely returned from China leaving behind her boss, President Uhuru Kenyatta. This, they claimed, was the clearest signal that something was amiss. According to diplomatic protocol, the CS should not leave behind the head of state while still on official duty. The truth about the CS’s return is not clear and Corridors could not independently verify.  What is clear, however, is that some insiders feel mistreated. A first-time Jubilee governor known for his theatrics has panicked. A mole has whispered that EACC detectives have been probing the flamboyant county boss over the loss of funds running into millions of shillings. The mole disclosed that the governor has been making frantic calls to ‘friendly’ officers at the anti-graft agency to reach out to commission CEO to spare him the impending embarrassment and prosecution. But Corridors has learnt that the governor’s attempts could be futile as the detectives have been instructed to pounce on him immediately the investigations are concluded. Is an MP from a Northeastern county actually an alien who obtained Kenyan citizenship illegally? Well, Corridors of Power has stumbled on information to the effect that the lawmaker actually crossed over from neighbouring Somalia. The MP first lived in the US as a refugee, where he was arrested and jailed for three years in federal prison for stealing from his client. He was then deported to Somalia by the Secret Service. He is said to have changed his name before coming to Kenya. The lawmaker recently declined a visit to the US arranged by a parliamentary committee fearing arrest by the Donald Trump administration.