The Duchess of Sussex has given birth to a boy, the Duke of Sussex has announced. Prince Harry said they were "absolutely thrilled" and thanked the public for their support during the pregnancy. He said Meghan and the baby were doing "incredibly well", adding that they were still thinking about names for the infant, who was delivered at 05:26 BST. Buckingham Palace said the baby weighed 7lbs 3oz (3.2kg), and that the duke was present for the birth. It added: "The Queen, the Duke of Edinburgh, the Prince of Wales, the Duchess of Cornwall, the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge, Lady Jane Fellowes, Lady Sarah McCorquodale and Earl Spencer have been informed and are delighted with the news. "The duchess's mother, Doria Ragland, who is overjoyed by the arrival of her first grandchild, is with their Royal Highnesses at Frogmore Cottage." The baby boy is seventh in line to the throne, behind the Prince of Wales, the Duke of Cambridge and his children - Prince George, Princess Charlotte and Prince Louis - and Prince Harry. He is the Queen's eighth great-grandchild. Speaking after the birth, Harry added the child had been "a little overdue" and that he planned to make another announcement in two days' time "so everyone can see the baby". Asked what it was like to be present for the birth, he laughed and said: "I haven't been at many births. This is definitely my first birth. It was amazing, absolutely incredible, and, as I said, I'm so incredibly proud of my wife. "As every father and parent will ever say, you know, your baby is absolutely amazing, but this little thing is absolutely to-die-for, so I'm just over the moon." He added: "It's been the most amazing experience I could ever have possibly imagined. "How any woman does what they do is beyond comprehension." The baby is a dual citizen, having automatically acquired US citizenship, via Meghan, at birth. Responding to the news, Prime Minister Theresa May tweeted: "Congratulations to the Duke and Duchess of Sussex on the arrival of their baby boy. Wishing you all the best at this happy time." Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn added: "Congratulations to Meghan and Harry on the birth of their baby. I hope they're all doing well." And Scotland's First Minister Nicola Sturgeon also offered her congratulations to the couple. She wrote: "The birth of a baby is a joyful occasion - congratulations to Harry and Meghan." Archbishop of Canterbury Justin Welby, who married the couple in May last year, said: "May God bless the new family with love, health and happiness."