Eden Hazard fired Chelsea to Europa League glory and then revealed he wants to leave for Real Madrid. The brilliant Belgian scored a brace as the Blues thumped Arsenal 4-1 in their all-English final to scoop Maurizio Sarri’s first major trophy. But immediately after the final whistle, Hazard confirmed his intention to quit Stamford Bridge ahead of next season to join Real in a reported £115million deal. “I’ve taken my decision already, I said that two weeks ago,” Hazard told BT Sport. “Now it depends on the club, both clubs. I’m just waiting like the fans wait, we will know in a couple of days. I think it’s a goodbye, but in football you never know. My dream was to play in the Premier League, I did it for seven years. Maybe now it’s time for a new challenge.” Real Madrid could unveil Hazard as early as Monday. Sources close to Madrid say an agreement between Chelsea and the Spanish club has already been agreed and they are now free to announce the transfer because Chelsea’s season is now over. Hazard tried to remain coy over his future but after being repeatedly pressed by BT Sport’s Darrell Currie, he admitted he is likely to be on the move. And speaking to beIN SPORTS, the Belgium international underlined his belief that it is time for a change. “I want a new challenge like I said last year after the World Cup but it didn’t happen,” he said. “So now it’s between both clubs. So I will see. I am still waiting, like you are waiting, and the fans are waiting. So we will see in a couple of days.” HAZARD AT CHELSEA Appearances: 352 Goals: 110 Assists: 92 Trophies:  Premier League (2014-15, 2016-17) FA Cup (2017-18) League Cup (2014-15) Europa League (2012-13, 2018-19)  Chelsea captain Cesar Azpilicueta believes Hazard will leave Stamford Bridge. “It is a big loss for us,” he told beIN SPORTS after the match. “As a player, as a person. We came here together six years ago and we have won six trophies. He has been amazing, on and off the pitch for me. I can only wish him the best, he is a very good friend of mine.” “The desire he has shown on the pitch for the club, his behaviour, everybody in the club loves him. There have been a lot of times they have had rumours about him leaving. In other situations, maybe other players could push. He didn’t. We are going to miss him.” Chelsea boss Sarri is also set to leave this summer after it emerged Juventus players have been told to expect the Italian to be appointed their new manager. Juventus want to hire Sarri following the departure of Max Allegri. The Blues boss is aware of Juve’s offer and is known to be tempted by the opportunity to work in Turin. And the Serie A club are increasingly confident of luring Sarri back to Italy to the point where they have informed players to expect the 60-year-old to be in charge next term. Chelsea would demand £5million compensation for Sarri, but it is understood that is not an issue for the Italian giants. Sarri had been on course for the sack following a string of disappointing results and a fractious fanbase who have not warmed to him. Pedro, who scored Chelsea’s second, said: “It is unbelievable and it is another goal and another European final. The best thing was the team work today. It is another trophy and I am happy to win another title and I think we deserve it because we were the best team in the tournament.” “To close this season with the trophy is great.” David Luiz added: “We had some ups and downs but we have improved a lot and learned a lot this season. We finished well and won a trophy. It is my third title in Europe with Chelsea, they believe in my game. Sarri is a great guy, a great coach and he deserves this. The manager did amazing for this club. I don’t know about speculation, now is the time to talk about the title.”