President Uhuru Kenyatta and former heads of state Daniel Moi and Mwai Kibaki have sent condolences to the family and friends of Jeremiah Kiereini, who died on Monday evening. Kiereini died in Nairobi aged 90, the family said. He was Kenya’s third head of civil service. Uhuru described Kiereini as a towering reform minded public servant and patriotic Kenyan who served his country with distinction. "Kiereini remains an important part of Kenya's public service history because of his many achievements," he said. “He was a polished patriot and loyal Kenyan who served this country with dedication as a public servant for over 30 years rising through the ranks to the position of Head of Public Service and Secretary to the Cabinet." Moi described Kiereini as a key cornerstone among the building blocks of service delivery to the people of Kenya. Moi said Kiereini's death had deeply saddened him and said he shared the pain with members of his family, friends , relatives and the people of Kenya at large. Uhuru  said there were many reforms Kiereini initiated while at the helm of the civil service. “Indeed his sterling performance  gave us the foundation upon which the successes we are witnessing in the sector today are anchored," Uhuru said. Kibaki wished Kiereini's family "the peace and encouragement of the Almighty God". "The late Kiereini and I were contemporaries in the public service for years, long before he became Head of the Public Service and Secretary tothe Cabinet and I, the Vice President under President Daniel Moi. To that extent, the fond and nostalgic memories I have of the late Kiereini derive from shared spaces, particularly in the public service arena," he said. Kibaki sai Kiereini contributed hugely to steering the country "to safe shores at a sensitive moment of political transition". He praised Kiereini for his acumen and excellence in both public service and the corporate world. After retirement from the public service, Kiereini transitioned into the private sector by being appointed Chairman of the Kenya Breweries Board in 1988, a company he later transformed into the East African Breweries Limited. The late Kiereini served on the boards of several companies including Unga Group Limited, CMC Holdings, CFC Stanbic, Heritage Insurance and CFC Life among others. Uhuru prayed to God to give the family the comfort and fortitude at this difficult period of mourning.