Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua has called for the increment of salaries and housing allowances of police officers. Mutua reiterated that though police officers contribute greatly to the safety and peace of mind to Kenyans, they have not been treated well and fairly. “Our men and women in uniform who serve as police officers contribute to the safety and peace of mind we have as ordinary Kenyans. However, the reality is that unlike their counterparts in Europe, Australia, Canada, the United States, Brazil, South Africa and other nations, our police officers have not been treated well and fairly,” said Mutua. He said this is especially so when it comes to remuneration, benefits and housing. The governor spoke when he handed over five houses constructed by Machakos County government to Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai at Athi River police station on Wednesday. Mutua said though former President Mwai Kibaki and President Uhuru Kenyatta have done a lot to improve the welfare of police officers, the situation is still bad. “My heart has always been torn when I see the living conditions of some of our officers. I have endeavored as a citizen to build houses for police officers and have done so quietly in several placesin Kenya,” added he. He noted that his government, due to the respect they have for police, decided to build good houses for police officers based in Athi River area. Mutua said even though security is a national government’s mandate, the people they serve are Machakos residents hence the need for partnership between his administration and Interior Ministry for the locals to get better services. He said that is why they have installed CCTV cameras, provided vehicles for policing and now partnering in building decent homes for police officers. “My government has offered to provide paint and repair materials and staff to revamp all police stations in Machakos county to bring them to international standards. That way, our police officers work in conducive environments and our people receive good services in clean and modern facilitieswhen they visit police stations,” said Mutua. Mutua noted that his government’s interest is to provide a county that is secure where business can thrive and locals get to make money in harmony. He said they want to grow wealth which you cannot do if security is not assured. Mutua added that police service is reflected in the motivation of the officers. “Yes, their salaries have been increased but when you consider that these officers are at the receiving ends of bullets and other ordiance, they are not paid enough.”