Seven aides of Bungoma Governor Wycliffe Wangamati have been charged with robbery with violence and malicious damage to property . The seven are accused of violently robbing two businessmen who were organizing anti-Wangmati demonstrations. The suspects are Celestine Mutaki (logistics  director), Jonathan Chenjeni (protocol officer), Vincent Maunda (driver), Hennry Kitui (driver of deputy governor), Antony Wamala  and Adams Mulama They allegedly robbed Zacharia Barasa and Moses Lukoye at Bukembe AP camp where the two sought refuge after they were chased. The suspects appeared before Bungoma magistrate John King’ori and denied all the charges. They  allegedly robbed Barasa of Sh400,00, a mobile phone, a laptop and a power bank on May 17 and destroyed his vehicle. The aides are further accused of damaging a Mercedes Benz belonging to Lukoye. They were remanded at Bungoma GK Prison awaiting a ruling on their bail application. The prosecution opposed bail, saying the seven could compromise witnesses. Investigating officer Alfred Kimithi swore an affidavit that the seven had sent the complainants and witnesses threatening messages . He further said the accused beat up somebody at a Bungoma club immediately they were released on police bond and should not be granted bail. But defence lawyer Amos Makokha rejected the officer's claims. “Your honour, all the charges here are constitutionally bailable and the prosecution is only being malicious ,”Makokha said  . He said the prosecution  had failed to prove the accused persons could run away. Makokha accused  the prosecution of ambushing  him with an affidavit, saying it was all rumours. He requested to cross-examine the investing officer and was allowed. Makokha asked the officer why he had not annexed evidence that the accused persons  had threatened witnesses either verbally or through text messages. Kimithi said the matter was not being handled by him but the deputy OCS. Magistrate King'ori turned down an  application by Makokha to have the accused remanded at Bungoma police station because two were sick.