Unai Emery urged his crestfallen stars to forget about the disappointment of missing out on a top-four finish ahead of Thursday’s crucial clash in Valencia. The Arsenal manager admits his side have fallen short of their Premier League target after yesterday’s draw against Brighton consigned the Gunners - barring a miraculous turn of events on the final day of the season - to finishing outside the top four. Arsenal players were visibly dejected as they embarked on a lap of honour after the final whistle of their last home game of the season. But Emery said: “I think they will switch off (from the disappointment). We are going to be strong in our mentality to prepare the best possible match on Thursday. The Premier League is our first target and we didn’t get the position we wanted, we couldn’t be in the top four.” “But we play on Thursday in the second leg and this is a title to play for and a way to go to the Champions League.” Aaron Ramsey bid a tearful farewell to the Emirates Stadium as he was given a guard of honour by his team-mates. The midfielder was emotional as his said farewell to supporters, who continuously chanted his name during the team’s lap of honour. “I’m very emotional. It’s been a hell of a journey,” said Ramsey, who will not play for Arsenal ahead of his summer move to Juventus due to a hamstring injury. “So much has happened. When I look back, you can see how much it means to me. I’ve spent so many years here. I arrived here a boy at 17 years old and I leave here a man. So much has happened so I’m very grateful for the opportunity here.” “Obviously I’m really excited for the new challenge, the new chapter in my life. But today is all about this, where I grew up, so I just want to take this in. There’s been highs and lows, but the fans have stuck by me, so I’m very grateful.” Meanwhile, Emery has confirmed Danny Welbeck will leave when his contract expires at the end of the month. The forward hasn’t played since sustaining a serious ankle injury against Sporting Lisbon in November. “I spoke to the club the decision is he [Welbeck] is going to leave,” said Emery. By SAMI MOKBEL Unai Emery urged his crestfallen stars to forget about the disappointment of missing out on a top-four finish ahead of Thursday’s crucial clash in Valencia. The Arsenal manager admits his side have fallen short of their Premier League target after yesterday’s draw against Brighton consigned the Gunners - barring a miraculous turn of events on the final day of the season - to finishing outside the top four. Arsenal players were visibly dejected as they embarked on a lap of honour after the final whistle of their last home game of the season. But Emery said: “I think they will switch off (from the disappointment). We are going to be strong in our mentality to prepare the best possible match on Thursday. The Premier League is our first target and we didn’t get the position we wanted, we couldn’t be in the top four.” “But we play on Thursday in the second leg and this is a title to play for and a way to go to the Champions League.” Aaron Ramsey bid a tearful farewell to the Emirates Stadium as he was given a guard of honour by his team-mates. The midfielder was emotional as his said farewell to supporters, who continuously chanted his name during the team’s lap of honour. “I’m very emotional. It’s been a hell of a journey,” said Ramsey, who will not play for Arsenal ahead of his summer move to Juventus due to a hamstring injury. “So much has happened. When I look back, you can see how much it means to me. I’ve spent so many years here. I arrived here a boy at 17 years old and I leave here a man. So much has happened so I’m very grateful for the opportunity here.” “Obviously I’m really excited for the new challenge, the new chapter in my life. But today is all about this, where I grew up, so I just want to take this in. There’s been highs and lows, but the fans have stuck by me, so I’m very grateful.” Meanwhile, Emery has confirmed Danny Welbeck will leave when his contract expires at the end of the month. The forward hasn’t played since sustaining a serious ankle injury against Sporting Lisbon in November. “I spoke to the club the decision is he [Welbeck] is going to leave,” said Emery.