At least ten youth are nursing arrow injuries at Christ Marriane Mission Hospital in Kisii following renewed violence along the disputed border between the Siria and Uasin Gishu clans. The violence in Transmara West, Narok county, has been going on for more than four decades. The youths, mostly from the Siria clan, were taken to the hospital on Sunday night. On Monday doctors managed to remove the arrows. Three youths suffered serious wounds to the chest; one had an arrow lodged near the liver. Hospital boss Beatrice Sabato said the patients are out stable and out of danger. Victims declined to speak to journalists. Their relatives said the youths were injured when morans from Siria attacked Uasin Gishu villages on Sunday night. "They raided the villages injuring several of your youth," Joseph Kibeni said. Security forces failed to respond to the distress calls from the villagers, he said. "We demand the government take action to forestall further raids between these two clans. We are brothers and sisters who should not be fighting a useless war as demarcation [will go on]," Kibeni said. He said other injured youths are admitted at private health facilities in Enosaeen and Kilgoris. "The government should know this is a crisis that should be tackled urgently," he told journalists. Enosaeni regional Seventh Day Adventist church leader David Kikwai said, "This is an issue over land. There was momentary calm till attacks began on Friday last week," Clashes are being instigated by politicians, he said, urging police to "go beyond the surface and see if some politician is funding violence." Speaking to Star by phone, however, Transmara OCPD Abdulahi Hali said he was not aware of the attacks."We got reports some youth were regrouping atop a hill near the contested border and we sent police who dispersed them," he said. "I am not aware of any injuries so far," he said. Subcounty deputy commissioner Hassan Nur was meeting regional security chiefs to quell simmering tension between the two clans. (Edited by V. Graham)