A first-term MP is the talk of parliamentary corridors amid concerns he doesn’t attend committee sessions and if he does, only signs the register and leaves. At times, the politician is normally seen wandering in the lobby in endless banter with his other colleagues. Those he engages say they are tired of people who do not know the reason for which they were elected, beyond representation. Some members were overheard saying that Speaker Justin Muturi’s reprimand against members who abuse committee privileges targeted the said politician and others who have been marked for only grabbing a cup of tea in committee sessions and leave immediately the cup runs dry. And still in Parliament, an MP who was elected on a fringe entity has been earmarked by the party which accommodated him and even volunteered its committee slots despite the lawmaker coming to Parliament on another ticket. The party accuses the legislator of voting with the rival side while he continues to serve in their committees. The party's attention was drawn during last week's voting on the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission amendment bill where the legislator voted with opponents in full glare of the cameras. Corridors has learnt the party is now consulting on what action to take after the MP refused to reciprocate their kind gesture of allowing him to sit in the committee. A driver of a governor in a Nyanza is in shock after he was faced with demands for payment for unclaimed imprest amounting to Sh300,000. The driver is among 80 people who are supposed to appear before the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) over fraud on the questionable imprests. Well, Corridors has learned that the falsified claims are part of the wider schemes by cartels operating at the county headquarters to siphon funds from the devolved unit. A bird whispered to Corridors that the driver apparently takes only Sh1,000 for five-day carwashes, leaving keen observers in the county wondering how the millions under investigations were siphoned from the county coffers. Just why has a governor in Western remained silent over a major incident that disrupted service in his county. When the incident happened, the county boss was out of the country. Locals expected the governor to address the media over the incident and highlights steps that have so far been taken towards ensuring that the masterminds are brought to book. The silence by the governor has left residents in the region wondering whether he was moved by the incident or not. Two county government employees have been charged in court and barred from accessing their office but the governor does not want to speak about the issue affecting the heart of his administration.