Resident of Turkana are now living in fear as heavy rains continue to pound the county. The rains have left several families displaced, animals and homesteads swept away. Over 10,000 people, more than 5,000 homesteads and unknown number of animals are feared to have been displaced and swept away by the floods. On Friday several families were forced to spend the night in cold after a river cut its banks letting water sweep through the villages. Kawalase seasonal river and river Turkwel on Friday flooded due to heavy rains and bursts their banks halting business activities and transport. As a result, Locals in parts of Lodwar have been forced to leave their homes and move to higher ground. The Turkana County government, in a statement to newsrooms has urged residents to evacuate and move to safer ground to avoid disaster. John Emeripus said a joint team of County Disaster Management department, Kenya Maritime Authority, health officials from the Lodwar County Referral Hospital (LCRH) and a host of humanitarian organisations, including Red Cross, have started rescue operations in Lodwar town. "The team is currently rescuing people at the Lodwar Livestock Market Sale yard who couldn't move out after River Turkwel burst its banks, cutting off road access,"  read part of the statement. Four people drowned last week after their vehicle was swept away by floods in Kitui county. The four, were riding on a double cabin pick up on Wednesday night before  Mutindi seasonal river burst and carried them forth. The car belonging to Prime Telcoms Limited had six occupants when the incident occurred at around 11pm. n Mombasa, floods have continued to make it hard for pedestrians and motorists to freely walk in the Bamburi - Kiembeni road. Pedestrians who were in a hurry to go to work were forced to pay Sh 200 to be carried to dry land. KenHa in a statement on Thursday advised motorists to exercise caution while driving. "Heavy goods vehicles plying the Likoni lunga road have been rerouted to the Lunga Kwale Kombani road following the damage of a culvert at Muhogo," KenHa said. "The contractor is already on site remedying the damage." Last week, a weekly weather forecast from the Kenya Meteorological Department  projected heavy rainfall across counties.