The Kenya Union of Post Primary Education Teachers and TSC are confident they will reach a conclusive salary agreement for teachers. This comes as negotiations for their 2021-25 Collective Bargaining Agreement kicked off on Tuesday at Sawela Lodge in Naivasha. Teachers Service Commission CEO Nancy Macharia said the government had set aside Sh54 billion towards addressing the welfare of teachers. Macharia said the funds would address salary increment, promotion and employment of more teachers. “We have decided to enter into negotiations with teachers in advance,” she said. She admitted that the country faced a shortage of 100,000 teachers adding that plans were underway to employ 5,000 teachers and an extra 10,000 interns. “The government is committed to improving the welfare of teachers as we introduce the Competence-Based Curriculum," the CEO said. Macharia said the government is committed to reducing teachers' workload by employing more personnel. Kuppet secretary general Akelo Misori said they were keen for a 70 per cent increase in teachers in the low cadre and 30 per cent for headteachers. Misori noted that the issue of promotions still remained a major challenge with thousands of teachers stagnating at one job group. “Today we are just setting laying the ground and but we are optimistic that by Thursday, we shall have the way forward in changing positively the lives of our teachers,” he said. He said that they were keen to have teachers' house allowance harmonised and their leave allowances addressed. The union national chairman Omboko Milemba said TSC would take the government through a raft of issues that had not been addressed in the previous CBA. He identified some of the issues as stagnated promotions, failure to pay risk allowances for science teachers, township allowance and mortgage scheme which was withdrawn by the state. “The issue of car loans and harmonised house allowance shall also be discussed as part of our negotiations and we hope there shall be white smoke by Thursday,” he said. Edited by R.Wamochie