A proposed law will compel all public health facilities to provide cancer treatment as part of primary healthcare. Homa Bay Woman Representative Gladys Wanga wants the Cancer Act changed to allow treatment of cancer at any health facility in the country. The World Health Organisation says primary healthcare covers treatment given to a person as close as feasible to their everyday environment. This would mean that patients visiting county hospitals will be accorded prevention, treatment, rehabilitation and palliative care services. Wanga, in the Cancer Prevention and Control Bill, 2019, wants the National Cancer Institute mandate expanded to enable it to train medical, paediatric and radiation therapy oncologists. The lawmaker, who is a cancer survivor, further wants the institute to collaborate with the Health department to train oncology nurses, physicists and other healthcare providers. Several reports have shown that the country lacks specialised skills in cancer treatment – a situation blamed for idle equipment at key referral hospitals. The bill further stipulates that hospitals adopt the use of technology such as e-health and telemedicine for the prevention and treatment of the deadly scourge. This is ostensibly to cut costs of travel by patients seeking treatment out of the country, mostly in India. “The principal object of this bill is to amend the Act to make provisions for training of health cadres in the specialised medical field of oncology,” the bill states. Wanga’s bill joins part of the efforts by lawmakers to compel the government to consider providing cancer treatment at the lowest facilities. Wajir Senator Abdullahi Ibrahim also wants the law amended to give county governments more functions towards the treatment of the disease. “The county governments shall be responsible for the prevention, treatment, rehabilitation and control of cancer within the county.” His bill seeks to establish a cancer centre in each county to provide specialised medical services related to cancer. Ibrahim’s bid is for services to include screening, diagnostic, treatment and collection of data on cancer within the county. The bill, which is due for debate by the House, also vouches for support services such as palliative, counselling and rehabilitation services as compulsory components of the treatment. Kenya reported about 26,000 deaths from the disease last year amid fears that medicines meant to slow the progression of cancer are toxic. A recent report by the Cancer Institute showed that oesophagus and prostate cancers are the most common male cancers in the country. This followed a study in Nairobi, Kisumu, Meru, Mombasa, Kakamega, Kiambu, Nyeri, Nakuru, Bomet, Embu and Eldoret. The study showed that breast cancer is still the most prevalent among women in those counties. Edited by R.Wamochie