The Building Bridges Initiative taskforce has completed filing its report after collecting views of Kenyans across the country. The taskforce held its last formal sitting on Wednesday, at the Task-force secretariat where they finalised the report and communicated to the President's office. "The joint Secretaries have officially communicated to the office of the President that the Building Bridges Initiative report is ready for handing over to the President," part of joint taskforce statement signed by BBI joint secretaries Paul Mwangi and Martin Kimani read. The taskforce said that they have already received word that the handover will be scheduled at the first available opportunity. According to the taskforce, the views to be presented to the President takes into account the views of Kenyans from the 47 counties including testimonies and petitions from the professional bodies. The views were also collected from the constitutional commissions, civil society organisations, religious leaders and associations, business associations and business leaders. "Elected leaders including governors, deputy governors, Senators, MPs and MCAs were also given the opportunity to give their views," the statement read. The team said that they believed that what has been collected will be used by the citizens to build the bonds between them which will become a strong foundation for an inclusive, fair and prosperous nation. The taskforce was formed on March 9 last year after Uhuru and Raila shook hands with a view of ending hostility among Kenyans. The nine issues include ethnicism, lack of national ethos, inclusivity, devolution, divisive elections, security, corruption, shared prosperity and responsibilities and rights. The team of 14 members comprises of Adams Oloo who is the chairperson, Agnes Kavindu, Senator Amos Wako, Florence Omose, Saeed Mwanguni, James Matundura. Others are Major John Seii, Bishop Lawi Imathiu, Maison Leshomo, Senator Mohamed Yusuf Haji, Morompi ole Ronkai Prof., Bishop Peter Njenga, Rose Moseu and Archbishop Zecheus Okot.