A Malindi televangelist accused of radicalising children has dismissed claims that his church is behind the disappearance of four boys from Mumias. Pastor Paul Mackenzie of Good News International Church said the parents of the four missing children are to blame. Speaking to journalists at his church in Furunzi, Mackenzie said it is he who informed the father of the boys who include a first-year university student and his three younger brothers. He said the elder brother who was in touch with his father had lied to him that they had gone to Kakamega. The pastor wondered why he is accused of being behind their disappearance. "As a servant of God, I have received allegations against me from the father who hails from Mumias whose children disappeared from his home. When they came to the church I was trustworthy and informed him," he said. The children are said to have been brainwashed to believe that school was evil and the end of the world would be in five years through teachings of Times TV owned by the controversial televangelist. The parents of the children from Mayala in Mumias East are living in agony after the disappearance of their four children for the last three weeks. Mackenzie said police have raided his premises in search of the boys in vain. He said the children fled for the first time after they saw their father accompanied by the security officers. "The children were in the church but the police went straight to my house and when the children saw their father they escaped to an unknown destination," he said. Mackenzie said he did not know the children and saw them for the first time when they came to his church. He said his TV  station reachers many followers globally and he cannot know who follows his teachings. Mackenzie said he advised the father to give the children time so the pastor could try to help in reconciling the family but the father instead opted to go to the police. That annoyed the children and they told him they would not meet him again. "The children said at one time they were taken to a police station by their father and were beaten so when they hear about police they fear another torture," he said. Mackenzie said he had no idea of the whereabouts of the children bu would inform the parents and police should he get any information. Police have confirmed arresting 11 people including seven minors when they raided the church. Malindi subcounty police commander Phillip Wambugu said those above 18 years would be charged with failing to register for identification cards. Wambugu said they had not arrested the pastor as he was assisting them in searching for the children. Police tracking of the elder brother's phone indicated that they were within the area of the church.