Israel Ambassador Joseph Oded has said his country will support Kenya's bid for the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) non-permanent seat for 2021 to 2022. Amb Oded spoke on Tuesday when he met Deputy President William Ruto in his Karen office. He said Israel recognises the vital role played by Kenya in regional security, adding that the position would further strengthen its activities in the fight against terrorism and extremism. Oded said Israel will continue to support Kenya in the war against terrorism among other criminal activities in the region. “Israel has officially made its stand to support Kenya’s bid for the United Nation’s Security Council non-permanent seat for 2021-2022. This is because Kenya has proven it can play an important role on matters of regional security,” Oded said. Ruto had asked Israel, through Ambassador Oded, to support Kenya’s bid for the post. During the meeting, Ruto said the country would continue to play a leading role in peace, security and conflict management, not only in the Horn of Africa, but other parts of the world. “As a country, we appreciate the support from Israel in terms of security cooperation that has been beneficial in the fight against terrorism activities in Somalia and the Horn of Africa. This is a global threat that we must work together to eliminate,” Ruto said. The Ambassador also said he was optimistic that the Galana-Kulalu irrigation project in Tana River would transform the lives of the people if successfully implemented. “This project can be a game-changer on issues of food security if it is well implemented. Issues that have undermined the implementation of the project should be sorted out,” he said. The Deputy President said Kenya would continue to pursue a peaceful and amicable solution over the maritime dispute with Somalia and that courts would not give a win-win solution to the problem. “Kenya believes that we should engage in dialogue with Mogadishu to attain an amicable solution, which can be a win-win for our two countries,” Ruto said. During the General Debate of the 74th United Nations General Assembly in New York, President Uhuru Kenyatta appealed to the United Nations Member States to support Kenya's bid. Uhuru thanked the African Union for endorsing Kenya’s candidature for the seat, and said the country's bid is motivated by a 'pursuit for solutions to global challenges.