Former civic leaders from Kisii on Wednesday stepped up pressure on the national and the county governments to pay them their retirement dues. They urged Governor James Ongwae to fast-track the processing of their gratuities. Many of them said they cannot afford basic necessities and medication. They said the delay to release the cash has condemned them to miserable lives. Their payments were reflected in the Councillors' Pension Bill, 2014, that was passed by the county assembly and assented to by the governor. The county Act provides that former councillors be paid Sh1 million each as gratuity and a further Sh30,000 in monthly stipend. From the National Government, the Senate had approved a report recommending a Sh1.5 million payout to each of the more than 12,000 former councillors across the country. In Kisii, the former councillors say Governor Ongwae seems no longer interested in paying them. "He has not shown the required seriousness or resolve to help us out as we had anticipated," said Casper Gichana, who is the group's chairman. He said they have met with the county chief several times in his office over the issue, but they have yet to make a breakthrough. Gichana said they will soon organise street protests should Ongwae continue ignoring their plight. "We have attempted the most peaceful ways possible in seeking the governor to save us from this situation by facilitating our payments but to no avail," he told the Star. He said they respect him and his silence is a great letdown. The local leaders said they will have no option but to picket outside Ongwae's office as part of the efforts to pressure his administration to act. Hesborn Michira, who is now a cleric, said many of the former civic leaders are ailing and urgently need the money for their medication. One former Boikanga councillor is herding goats in Kuria, Migori, because of desperation. He said he quickly needs money for the treatment of a kidney problem. Another councillor now washes cars to earn a living. "It was after the long wait for this money that some thought crept into my mind that if I won't do something, I'll die at home and that is how I ended up in Kuria rearing cows and pigs like the Bible's lost son," he told the Star. He said life is still unbearable in his current employment with his meagre earnings only helping to meet a few needs. "It is a pity that I had to go this route to survive," he said. They are set to meet in Nairobi in a few weeks to push the payment agenda.