Golf Park’s pro golfer Tony Omuli claimed his first-ever Safari Tour Golf Series win at the Royal Nairobi leg after defeating homeboy Eric Ooko in a three-hole play-off that was played after 72 holes. Having finished their four-round challenge tied at 3-over par 291 scores at the top of the leader board, both embarked on the playoff at the par-4, 10th, the par-4 11th and the par-4, 18th holes; setting a stage for a grand finish to the tournament. At the 10th, both got off to par before proceeding to the 11th where Omuli held par as Ooko holed a bogey. At the 18th, Ooko’s second shot bounced off a tree to land on the fairway while Omuli found the middle of the fairway with his second. They both missed birdie chances on the green but it was Omuli who carried the day having held par as Ooko dropped yet another shot. Earlier in the day, Tony had carded a round of 72 to match his round from yesterday; seeing him cement his 3-over par 291 scores. On his part, Ooko had a less-than-ideal day, posting a 5-over par 77 score and in the process, eroded a tremendous effort he had made yesterday to post an identical score as Omuli. Speaking after the round, Omuli said he is delighted with the result, adding that it adds impetus to his Safari Tour challenge for the remainder of the season. “I am extremely happy to have my first Safari Tour victory. It has been a long time coming and I think it comes at the right time just as we are getting into the thick of things in this year’s Safari Tour calendar. I believe this will give me enough motivation to challenge for the top position in the remaining legs of the series,” he said. On his part, Ooko expressed disappointment for the missed opportunity to win his first Safari Tour victory at his home club but remained satisfied with his best-ever finish at the Safari Tour. “I am gutted with my performance today as it’s clear that I lost a chance to record my first Safari Tour win. I am, however, encouraged with the performance and look forward to similar performances in subsequent events,” he said. For his efforts, Omuli took home Sh105,000 in prize money while Ooko bagged Sh70,000. Meanwhile, Mohit Mediratta and Simon Ngige ended their campaign at the tournament tied in second having posted 4-over par 292 scores; taking home Sh54,250 each. The trio of Njuguna Ngugi, Riz Charania and Johnnie-Walker-Sponsored Dismas Indiza posted 5-over par 293 scores seeing them end the tournament tied in fifth and taking home Sh45,500 each. Nyali’s Dennis Nduva took the amateur silver salver having ended the tournament as the highest-ranked elite amateur at the tournament. For the second time this season, the Safari Tour featured two lady golfers taking part in the main tournament. Amateur Naomi Wafula and lady pro golfer Bhavi Shah, both missed the cut but put up a decent fight over the first two rounds— pointing to the growing interest among professional and elite amateur lady golfers in the tournament. Action in the 2019/2020 Safari Tour Golf Series returns in Entebbe, Uganda at the Entebbe Open from October 30 to November 2. The series is sponsored by both Magical Kenya and Absa.  