Senate Majority Leader Kipchumba Murkomen wants Environment CS Keriako Tobiko and Rift Valley regional coordinator George Natembeya sacked. On Saturday, he led a team of Kalenjin politicians in calling for the sacking of the two for failing to protect the illegal settlers being evicted from the Mau forest in Narok South. Speaking at Sereng village in Kipkelion West, Murkomen said time had come for President Uhuru Kenyatta should now fire Tobiko and Natembeya. The Elgeyo Marakwet senator was accompanied by Kericho's Aaron Cheruiyot, MCAs Hilary Koske (Kipkelion West), Kipsengeret Koros (Soin/Sigowet), Nelson Koech Sonko (Belgut), Dominic Rono (speaker) and former Kipkelion MP Magerer Langat. He termed the Kenya National Human Rights Commission "a toothless dog" for "failing to protect those faced with eviction from Mau by the government." “National security under the watch of Interior CS Fred Matiang'i has gone to the dogs. Matiang'i and PS Karanja Kibicho are just spectators in the intended eviction of 60,000 people from what they described as Mau settlement,” Murkomen said. Murkomen said Matiang'i and Kibicho are just playing politics instead of protecting the illegal settlers. Senator Aaron warned that Kalenjin leaders may take unspecified action should the government go ahead and evict all the 60,000-plus settlers to protect the forest. “We are asking President Uhuru Kenyatta to crack whip on Tobiko and Natembeya or we go for the two over their cruelty to mankind in Mau,” Senator Aron said. MP Koech said those in Mau are human beings and not monkeys that live on tree tops. They claimed the settlers have title deeds issued by former governments to occupy land in the forest. “We are settlers in Narok South and not invaders as Tobiko and Natembeya were branding us,” Koech said. He said Kalenjin MPs will shoot down Environment ministry budget moment when it's tabled on the floor of the House. Kipsenget claimed that the government had turned against the Kalenjin tribe.