Residents of Nguluku village in Lunga Lunga subcounty want more compensation from Australian mining company Base Titanium. They want Sh1.5 million per acre, far above the previously agreed Sh80, 000. However, their land contains no minerals and is in a buffer zone. The demand comes after residents accused the company of violating compensation terms and endangering their lives. Residents said the firm was supposed to pay them to enable them to relocate before any mining activities started. Led by Julius Mtala, residents said they were issued with letters that stated they were already compensated. “We are surprised to have relocation papers that indicate we were moved to safe places with the rest, but we are still here and no money was given to us,” Mtala said. Base Titanium Community liaison manager Pius Kasim said they are still waiting for the government to give them the Special Mining Lease (SML) variation licence, so they can proceed with compensation. He said the valuation of assets and evacuation process takes a while since it involves various stakeholders. Kasim said the majority of people do not have title deeds but the company has taken the initiative to compensate them equally. "It must be known that most residents are squatters, but we will treat them as if they own the land," Kasim said. Residents will get three times the money the those relocated got in the first phase, he said. Mtala said animals are raiding their farms while a large area is flooded by water from the dam that mixes up with the heavy dust produced by tractors. “Crocodiles are patrolling in River Nora, my four acres are submerged in dirty water from the overflowing dam. Don’t forget buffaloes and baboons destroy our crops,” Mtala said. Nduku Nzuki said students have to walk long distances because schools were relocated to far places. She admits that they don’t have valid title deeds but want to be assisted because they are the original inhabitants. Resident Julius Chikophe said they are afraid diseases like tuberculosis will break out if proper action is not taken. Chikophe said life is threatened because trees have begun to dry up in most areas neighbouring the mine and could topple over. Kenya Land Alliance project manager Achero David agreed that Base Titanium omitted the most crucial steps of law. “We have noticed that the extension done by this firm was not conducted appropriately according to rules and regulations. It is very interesting that they started developing this area while residents are still not evacuated,” Achero said. In July Mining Principal Secretary John Omenge engaged Nguluku residents on compensation grounds as he came to access the area before signing an agreement to extend Base Titanium's mining life. The firm was to be given a new Special Mining Lease license to proceed to the second phase of their contract that ends in four years. Base Titanium Communication Liaison officer Stanley Mwahanga said families complaining about compensation are in the buffer zone. A buffer zone is a place the Australian firm won't be needing it since it contains no mineral deposits. He said the same area belongs to the Kenya International Sugarcane Company but said residents would be considered on humanitarian grounds. Mwahanga rubbished claims that diseases might erupt, saying Base Titanium doesn't use chemicals to mine minerals. The compensation exercise affected 52 families from Kibwaga, Nora, Mchinjirini,among others. (Edited by V. Graham)