Mandera politicians and security agents have called for a ceasefire following the killing of 10 people in inter-clan clashes. Bandits believed to be from the Degodia clan on Tuesday morning attacked a remote village in Banisa subcounty and killed 10 residents. The village was Dumaal in Malkamari ward. Governor Ali Roba, Banisa MP Kullow Maalim, county commissioner Onesmus Kyatha and other leaders toured the area and called for calm. Kyatha said the government will take stern action against the killers. He said a number of key suspects had already been apprehended and were helping in investigations to establish the people behind the violence. Maalim said the killings were politically instigated and urged the government to expeditiously bring the killers to justice. He did not elaborate on his comment. Northeastern regional commissioner Mohamed Birik on Tuesday said the attack was retaliatory following an earlier one in Ethiopia in which two people were killed and 100 camels stolen. There had conflicting reports on what might have triggered the attack, with some residents blaming it on land disputes. Others said the bandits' sole purpose was to create tension and disunity among the two communities. Birik, however, said there have been hostilities for the past two weeks after the Ethiopia raid. He spoke to the press in his office. Roba urged security agents to closely work with local leaders and residents to restore security. “We don’t want to ever be woken up again or get news of people killed in any part of the county for whatever reason,” he said. "Let us love each other and maintain peace because we are all brothers and sisters. God in his own wisdom decided to put us together and that will not change." The region has enjoyed peace since 2016, when residents agreed to coexist peacefully after inter-clan clashes between the Garre and Degodia. The violence, which was common after the advent of devolution, claimed many lives and displaced numerous others. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya