The Kisii county government has embarked on the construction of a 200-bed mother and child hospital. Governor James Ongwae said the facility will offer specialized services to expectant mothers and children. He said that the facility will enhance Kisii Teaching and Referral Hospital to 900-bed capacity. “My administration has embarked on the construction of a 200-bed mother and child hospital to offer specialized services to pregnant mothers and children under one roof,” Ongwae told the Star by phone. In order to create a more conducive environment for doctors, Ongwae said the county will build a doctors' plaza to eliminate the practice where they attend to patients out of hospital. He said that Kisii University has been accredited to offer medicine, noting that already the first batch of 30 students have been admitted. “The students who have since been admitted will complement our health delivery services as most of the teaching will be practical and will be done in our wards,” he said. On the Cancer Diagnostic and Treatment Centre, the county chief said donors have given the green light to the Ministry of Health to hire a consultant to embark on design. “We expect to break the ground soon to enable construction of the Cancer Diagnostic and Treatment Centre. When complete the project will save patients from covering long distances in search of cancer services,” the county boss said. Ongwae said his administration has made sure there are specialized staff. “At the moment we have 25 specialists, 179 doctors, 1, 090 nurses while 45 doctors are attending specialized training in oncology, general surgery, dermatology, neurosurgery and pathology,” Ongwae said. He said that his government recently hired 100 nurses to help operationalize some of the health facilities built through CDF and other agencies, which have been lying idle. When he recently visited United Kingdom, Ongwae said he secured commitment from partners to have an exchange programme for doctors between county hospitals and the university hospital of South Manchester. “Once all protocols are in place, our doctors will be going to the UK to be exposed to the latest medical procedures while others will come to work in the county to be exposed to the management of tropical diseases,” he said.