Shujaa and Morans will be under the spotlight as the 23rd edition of the Safari Sevens goes down at the RFUEA ground. Shujaa will be seeking to reclaim the crown they last won in 2016 after falling short last year when they fell to champions Samurai 21-14 in an exciting final. Morans, who won the event in 2002, are equally determined to go all the way this time round in what will be a competitive tournament full of quality teams. Shujaa are in Pool 'C' and open their campaign against minnows Zambia at 11 am. They will then face Rusia Academy at 2 pm and play their final pool match against Blue Bulls of South Africa in what will be a mouth-watering encounter at 5:10 pm. Morans, are in a tricky Pool 'A' and will open the tournament proceedings against Uganda at 9:30 am. They then face a Herculean task against three-time World Sevens Series champions South Africa at 12:40 pm before clashing with Burundi in the afternoon. National Sevens series champions KCB open their campaign against world Sevens series regulars Spain, follow it up with a tie against Africa Sevens champions Zimbabwe and then complete their preliminary matches against French outfit Seventise. Kenya Sevens coach-cum-technical director Paul Feeney was excited about the challenge of playing on home soil as well as gauging the teams' preparations for the vital Olympic qualifiers and World Sevens Series. "We have had a good training period now. We need to see how well the boys have adapted to the coaching methods,  systems and strategies," said Feeney. He was delighted with the calibre of teams that have arrived for the two-day rugby extravaganza. "Quality teams will make the competition great and give us a good test and allow us to see where we are,” added Feeney. Skipper Andrew Amonde said the squad is relishing the challenge ahead. "We have had a good build-up training and we can't wait to play in front of our fans,” said Amonde. Morans skipper Jeff Oluoch said the side is ready to rub shoulders against the Blitzbooke. "It's a good pool where we will be tested by South Africa and Uganda and thus help us know where we are as a team,” added Oluoch.