Good morning, Deputy President William Ruto has developed elaborate campaign strategy in Kibra as he seeks to wrest the seat from ODM leader Raila Odinga's strategic backyard. The battle for the parliamentary seat has already snowballed into a showdown between the two protagonists in what is billed as a 2022 dress rehearsal. With his eyes set on the 2022 presidential duel, Ruto is keen to turn the tables against Raila in Kibra to send a  message to his main rivals. Raila is not invincible — that's the message. And Ruto is willing and ready to spend to hammer that message home, allies say. Here are the other stories making headlines in the Star this morning. Thousands of families are staring at tough economic times following a wave of employee layoffs affecting many companies. At least 2,000 workers have lost their jobs since July and many more companies have announced intentions of getting rid of hundreds of workers before the end of the year. Kenya is one of the fastest-growing regions in Africa, but its performance is often hit by drought. Thousands of Nairobi commuters and motorists suffer routine traffic jams on a daily basis, costing millions worth of man hours. While the government piles on numerous  efforts to handle the gridlock, mass transit service hailing apps in the country are looking to solve the conundrum that is Nairobi’s traffic jam. Even as they receive constant blocks from local authorities. The Star had an opportunity to talk to SWVL Kenya general manager Shivachi Muleji: Central Bank Governor Patrick Njoroge surprised Kenyans during Madaraka Day celebrations in Narok when he announced new currencies and said the Sh1,000 notes would cease being a legal tender by October 1. The decision was clearly well-thought-out and cleverly kept secret from most government functionaries, lest crooks would sabotage the demonetisation process. After giving birth to a daughter in 2017, Princess had a mission to lose weight and get back to her initial size six from 10. She was overweight. She had gained weight in the second trimester of her pregnancy. And so, soon after delivery, she began with what she thought was the most urgent: trimming her belly. “I bought myself a slimming belt and I put it on every day for about two months. When I noticed there was progress, I stopped and I now put it on occasion,” she told the Star. The National Transport and Safety Authority says human error is the biggest contributor to road accidents. Director general Francis Meja on Friday said drivers can either save or end lives depending on their decisions. "The number of people we are losing on our roads is unacceptable. Our biggest challenge still remains the drivers whom we are now going to zero in on. We will now be focusing on the drivers and their behaviour," he said.