Kenya Union of Post Primary Education Teacher (Kuppet) has told off Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha over his decision to close schools that don't meet standards set out in school safety policies. The union has instead told Magoha to deal with corrupt ministry officials. Kuppet national chairman Omboko Milemba argued that the closures are a mere public relations gimmick that should stop immediately. “Magoha should first clean his office, punish the quality assurance officers who allowed the unsafe schools to operate and publish the existing quality assurance standards for education stakeholders and all Kenyans,” he said. 'DEPLORABLE' MINISTRY Milemba put Magoha on spot by saying that his ministry’s Quality Assurance Department is in a deplorable state, crippled by contradictory policies. He said that instead of the shadow boxing the CS is engaged in, Magoha should urgently offer ideas on improving the infrastructure in schools, with first priority given to informal settlements. "If he did so, Kuppet will mobilise all our forces including supportive MPs to ensure that funds are made available for such," Milemba said. "It ironical that instead of exposing such wayward officers, the CS has chosen to honour them by regularly appearing with them at press events where he makes pronouncements of the closures." The chairman further said that it is only during times of calamities, such as the Precious Talents Academy incident, where lives have been lost that they (ministry) swing into action – often by closing the institutions. He said Kuppet believes these closures are an unnecessary disruption for learners and parents, especially when national examinations are just around the corner. IGNORING INFORMAL SETTLEMENTS The Kuppet boss said the government has failed miserably in providing education services in the informal settlements, especially in Nairobi County. “In Dagoretti South where Precious Talent Academy is located, the entire Ngando ward with more than 100,000 residents has no single public school,” he said. According to Kuppet for the past 30 years despite the population of Nairobi doubling, the government has not established a single school within this period. Kuppet’s Secretary General Akelo Misori said that Magoha’s responses on the Precious Talent School tragedy are an abuse to the informal settlements.