Nyamira county executives who were sacked by Governor John Nyagarama have reapplied for the positions. The 10 CECs have all been shortlisted for interviews, according to an advert placed on the county website. Duncan Ouma, the joint secretary of the ad-hoc recruitment and selection committee, signed the document. The executives' contracts expire on November 2 and the committee is racing against time to have a cabinet in place. According to sources, the governor will rehire at least seven ministers. The interviews start on Monday. Among those shortlisted is current county secretary Eric Onchana who has applied for the Lands, Housing and Urban Development department position. He will fight it out with incumbent Zablon Onchiri and Samuel Ondieki. Onchana's contract as county secretary expires in December. Frank Ombati, who served in Nyagarama's first term but was dropped in 2018, has also been shortlisted for the Environment department, Former nominated MCA Zipporah Osoro is shortlisted in the department of Public Service Management. The committee will conclude the interviews by Friday but it is unclear how the governor will get the names to the assembly for vetting because of a standoff between the lawmakers and the executive. The Assembly through speaker Moffat Teya suspended the vetting of chief officers until the governor reinstates 502 teachers whose contracts expired. The county has been operating without chief officers for more than a year. Teya called for the impeachment of the governor. The governor formed a task force which recommended the rehiring of the tutors on contract contrary to demands from MCAs that they should be employed on a permanent basis. Senator Okong'o Omogeni challenged MCAs to do proper oversight of the county. Omogeni told the Star there has been no major project initiated by the county since its inception. “Some projects like Manga Stadium have stalled even after the county spent Sh52 million. In the current financial year I'm told Sh80 million has been allocated but we have not been told how Sh52 million was spent,” the Senator said. Omogeni also wants all roads done by various agencies made public to avoid duplication.