Good morning, President Uhuru Kenyatta will mark the country’s 56th Mashujaa Day against a backdrop of unfulfilled promises that could tarnish his legacy. For example, what happened to Uhuru's promise in 2015 of a  Sh10 billion restorative justice fund for victims of PEV and other injustices? Silence as the head of state focusses on hardware, big projects he can point to. Here are the other stories making headlines in the Star this morning. A man caused drama at a Nairobi court after he sneaked into the dock to hold brief for his absent brother facing criminal charges. The man who remained confident and calm, however, failed to hold brief till the end after the proceedings become too complicated.  Time is a master healer but for David Gachuki Mwangi, that is just a saying. The 56-year-old sat thoughtfully under a mango tree in his Kabatini home in Bahati, Nakuru county. He stared at his daughter’s grave. Veronica Muthoni died on October 21, 2017 after their helicopter crashed into Lake Nakuru. "When you insert the pencil-narrow tampon-like cup into your vagina and rub for five minutes before sex, you will feel tight. Your man will cling to you in bed like an obsessed lover." This is the confession of one woman after using what she calls 'miracle' reproductive organ rejuvenating and tightening magic stick. As the three-week synod meeting by Catholic bishops from around the world enters its final week, one topic is dominating the headlines. It is the question of celibacy. Whether married men should be allowed to serve as priests in the Catholic Church. The more than 250 clerics are meeting at the Vatican to discuss the future of the Church in the Amazon. Fellow Kenyans, allow me the indulgence to submit that courtesy of our political leaders, we are hurtling at Grand Prix speed towards the little-known bailiwick of ethnic cultism. To understand how grave ethnic cultism is, we must distinguish it from tribalism and ethnocentrism. The empirical definition of tribalism limits it to entrenching favouritism based on ethnic identity. 