 Opponents of the Building Bridges Initiative are beneficiaries of raw power and want to retain the status quo in 2022, former Prime Minister Raila Odinga has said. Raila and Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka on Sunday dismissed those opposed to the handshake. They said the government will start implementing the BBI report in a weeks' time to change the country's governance structure. They said the handshake has partly addressed the challenges facing Kenyans, including corruption, tribalism, and disunity. “Those who are opposing the handshake are doing so because they are enjoying the raw power and want to retain it after the next elections,” Raila said in a speech read on his behalf by Siaya Governor Cornel Rasanga. Rasanga spoke during the Methodist Church thanksgiving ceremony for the election of Joseph Ntombura as the first president of the African Methodist Council at the Kasarani Stadium in Nairobi. Ntombura is the Methodist Church's presiding bishop in Kenya. “We are here to celebrate and push for what is right for our people. We are also here to address the challenges facing this country and come up with solutions,” Ntombura said. Raila and Kalonzo asked church leaders to support the referendum and ensure religious leaders play an integral role in ensuring good leadership. They also asked the church to claim its space in the fight for reforms and good leadership. “People are becoming impatient with misrule and corruption and that is why we are seeing depression and protests. That is why I also call on the church to stop receiving money from illicit activities such as corruption and outright theft,” Kalonzo said. Raila said the BBI report will change how politics are conducted in the country to ensure effective representation of Kenyans. “The handshake has united Kenyans and brought peace. It has also disrupted corruption activities and its time to ensure Kenyans receive good services from their government,” Raila said. Kalonzo ask Kenyans to trust President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila after they came up with the Building Bridges Initiative. “Uhuru and Raila are brothers who were holding each other’s throat because of politics. However, they decided to put aside their political differences so that they can serve Kenyans effectively,” Kalonzo said. “Its time for all Kenyans to read the BBI report and support Uhuru and Raila. They mean good for this great nation following the handshake spirit.” Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi who also attended the service called on Kenyans to unite and build the nation.  edited by peter Obuya