The government on Saturday unveiled a Sh200 million CT Scan Centre at the Coast General Teaching and Referral Hospital to improve health services in the region. Health CS Sicily Kariuki presided over the event as the state-of-the-art 64-slice CT scan and furniture, among other equipment, were launched. The new machine is aimed at improving diagnosis of diseases and cut down travel costs for patients in the region, who initially had to seek the services in other counties. The scanner combines a series of X-ray views taken from different angles and uses a computer to reconstruct the “slices” to produce actual pictures. The 64-slice offers detailed images, allowing doctors to get the best information during diagnoses. Many Coast patients now flock to the hospital after it was recently refurbished to offer additional services. Though it is in Mombasa, the hospital also serves Kwale, Kilifi, Tana River, Lamu and Taita Taveta counties. It now has cancer and dialysis units, open heart and neurosurgeries, among other specialised services. They have attracted many patients. The maternity section is also crowded, as more women prefer to deliver at the facility. “Let's not play with public health. We are here to help one another and assist Kenyans to get quality medical services," Health CS Sicily Kariuki said. A CT scan has many uses but is particularly well-suited for quick examination of people who may have internal injuries from car accidents or other types of trauma. It can be used to visualise nearly all parts of the body and is used to diagnose disease or injury and plan medical, surgical or radiation treatment. The CS visited the Cancer Centre, the cardiac centre, the radiotherapy construction site, the intensive care unit and the maternity wing. She also commissioned a minimal access theatre for laparoscopy and endoscopy cases. The hospital has 10 theatres. Kariuki also donated immunisation equipment worth Sh40 million to the county government to support coverage in lower-level facilities. "We desire to have more collaborative delivery of healthcare and we are here to complement each other and not to compete," she said. Mombasa Deputy Governor William Kingi said the county will partner with the ministry to advance health services in the region. He said they have invested heavily in staff training both internally and externally. “We will work with the Health ministry and are ready to support the national government programmes," he sought to assure the CS. The ministry has been able to scale up health facilities offering immunisation services in the county from 69 per cent to 90 per cent through the distribution and installation of 70 specialised vaccine refrigerators, 12 of which were launched by the CS on Saturday alongside a motorbike — all at a cost of Sh36 million. The national government has established radiotherapy centres in Nakuru, Garissa and Mombasa and is currently engaging India and China on issues of specialisation. (Edited by F'Orieny)