Rice farmers in Kisumu county have recorded improved production following the use of newly introduced certified fertilisers. The farmers said the fertilisers have also improved the quality of rice and boosted soil fertility. “I used to get 30 bags of rice from one acre but since I started using Yara East Africa fertilisers, I now get 40 bags,” said Christine Koyo who has 20 acres of rice in Ombeyi area. I'm impressed by the crop because if you apply the fertilisers at the right intervals, you will get a bumper harvest, she said. Koyo spoke on Wednesday during a field day at Kano West Irrigation Scheme attended by more than 200 farmers. She uses YaraMila Power, YaraVera Amiodas and YaraVita crop boost fertilisers on her farm. “The rice grains we get from using this fertiliser are of better quality,” Koyo said. Koyo added that if farmers embrace good agricultural practices and the application of fertilisers, they can double their yields. Davies Otieno said the fertilisers they had been using before caused soil acidity leading to poor yields. Otieno said that extension officers and agronomists deployed by Yara have greatly helped with skills and knowhow to improve production. “We have embraced Yara because from the demonstration fields it's very clear that our yields will increase and the fertiliser is friendly to the soil,” Otieno said. He said farmers were almost giving up because the fertilisers they were using were not helping them get the desired yields. Yara East Africa commercial manager Vitalis Wafula said the fertiliser firm's products are tailor-made for farmers. “We have done extensive research and come up with fertilisers which will help farmers increase their yields. Crops must get proper and balanced nutrients required for high production,” Wafula said. Wafula said that they are working with 5,000 rice farmers in Kano and Ahero Irrigation schemes. He said that they are also working with farmers in Mwea and Bunyala Irrigation schemes. The manager said that the company is partnering with county governments and the National Irrigation Board to address the declining rice production in the country. “Farmers who use our products get better grain quality which attracts good market prices. This will also boost food security in the country,” he said. Wafula urged farmers to buy their products from recognised and accredited distributors. “We are working with specific agro vet shops in various towns in Kenya because we are aware that counterfeit farm inputs are in the market,” Wafula said. (edited by O. Owino)