The government is promoting production of geothermal energy to conserve the environment and attract investors, Energy CS Charles Keter has said. He spoke at the weekend during a tour of the Paka geothermal field in Baringo. Keter hailed the Geothermal Development Company for opening the new field. The GDC has drilled a deep well that releases geothermal steam used for electricity generation at low cost. “This is a great milestone for Kenya,” the CS told reporters at the site. “This success is a great opportunity towards cheaper power. This geothermal well will strategically open up the region for economic development. This is the future of geothermal energy in Kenya.” Opening a new geothermal field is a daunting and complex endeavor, Keter said. The Baringo-Silali geothermal project is arguably Kenya’s next important hub for renewable energy. The vast block spans three areas namely Paka, Korosi and Silali. It is estimated to have a potential of 3,000MW. GDC will in the first phase develop between 100MW and 300MW from each prospect. Keter said it is in the government’s interest to invest in renewable energy such as geothermal power to reduce the cost of energy, protect the environment and attract investors. “The future of manufacturing and other national development agendas is pegged on availability of affordable and clean energy. That is our quest and commitment at the Ministry of Energy,” he said. GDC managing director Johnson Ole Nchoe explained that one more rig will be deployed to the region to speed up drilling operations. “Our effort of de-risking the geothermal sector is paying dividends. Once we prove viability of the resource, it becomes easier for private investors to inject their capital. That way we are going to accelerate the development of geothermal energy in Kenya,” he said. The Baringo-Silali geothermal projected is supported by development partners including KFW of Germany, Geothermal Risk Mitigation Fund, Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) and the Icelandic International Development Agency. GDC is also developing the Menengai geothermal project in Nakuru county. The company announced that it has finalised key agreements with power distributor Kenya Power and independent power producers who are set to generate 105MW.