The average age of Kenyan farmers is 59, meaning many are older and soon will no longer be ploughing the fields. A new generation of young, tech-savvy farmers is needed to take their place. President Uhuru Kenyatta said on Thursday that the government is encouraging young people to take up modern farming, which holds great economic opportunities. The average consumer is age 17, he noted. Speaking during the opening of the Nairobi International Trade Fair at the Jamhuri Park Showgrounds, the President said the government has prioritised programmes to ease access to land, financing, mechanisation and knowledge among young people. The President said 300 youth have already undergone a rigorous trainer-of-trainers programme in Israel since 2016 as part of government's capacity-building programme to empower youth to engage in agriculture. The government continues to promote access to Agricultural Technical Vocational Education Training (ATVET) opportunities under the Comprehensive Africa Agricultural Development Programme. Over five years, this initiative has led to the development of more than 44 Competency-Based Curricula for agricultural middle-level colleges in value chains such as dairy, horticulture, poultry, aquaculture and agri-entrepreneurship, the President said. The head of state also said the government is prioritising access to affirmative action funds for youth, women and persons living with disabilities to provide capital for vibrant agriculture enterprises. “These and other initiatives will contribute to our position as the gateway to Eastern and Central Africa Region," he said, "through a full spectrum of micro, small, medium, large and mega enterprises in both the traditional and new economies." Before his address, the President toured exhibition stands and inspected the ongoing construction of the Jamhuri Park Expo and Conference Centre. He presided over the auctioning of livestock. The supreme and reserve champion crossbreed bulls from the Kenya Seed Company, each weighing 630kg, were auctioned at Sh800,000 each. The champion Boran cow weighing 550kg, also from Kenya Seed, sold for Sh690,000. Another Boran bull from the Agricultural Development Corporation was auctioned at Shs 410,000. National Chairperson of the Agricultural Society of Kenya  Annabella Kiriinya, Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko and Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri also spoke at the event. (Edited by V. Graham)