The decisions taken at the seventh Annual General meeting of Football Kenya Federation, particularly the unanimous adoption of the electoral code, has drawn instant condemnation from potential candidates. Former FKF President Sam Nyamweya pointed out that being one of the key stakeholders in Kenyan football and having served as the president of the federation previously, he was obligated to comment about the running of the federation. "I have been following the ongoings at the federation ahead of next years elections and I can say I am very disappointed and disturbed," he opened. "It is sad that the federation has come up with some code which I feel defeats the basic requirements for free and fair elections. For an election to be seen as free, fair and democratic, it is vital that all stakeholders are involved in the entire process from the start," said Nyamweya. "However, the federation top leadership has come up with conditions which to me I believe will turn the elections into a farce and not a democratic process.". The former football boss said he had played a pivotal role in rebuilding the federation after the previous leadership turned it into a private company. "We redrafted the constitution which has served Kenyan football to date. Sadly, some articles have been altered including denying the sub-branches an opportunity to be part of the electoral process," he noted. Nyamweya observed that sub-branches play a key role in the running and management of football adding that it is at that level that the basic management of football starts. "Sub branches are the root of football development in the country. Unfortunately, FKF has decided to lock out the sub-branches from the forthcoming election," said Nyamweya. "We cannot have a credible election at the federation if the process does not start from the sub-branch level, going to the branches and on to the national level," he observed. On Friday the Sports Disputes Tribunal threw out a petition by Nyamira sub-branch chairman Jared Nyauma challenging the FKF electoral code.