Deputy President William Ruto should be investigated for using public resources to campaign for Jubilee candidate McDonald Mariga in Kibra, Musalia Mudavadi has said. The Amani National Congress leader said Ruto had turned his official residence into a campaign headquarters for Mariga, against the election laws. Mudavadi accused the Jubilee Party of bribing voters to back Mariga ahead of the  November 7 by-election. He said public resources cannot be diverted for individual interests as Kenyans faced hunger and higher taxes. “He [Ruto] should use government resources to ensure Kenyans get value for their taxes. This will help people access good health, education, infrastructure, and other services,” Mudavadi said. Mudavadi was addressing grassroots leaders at the Amani National Congress offices in Nairobi two days after he returned from a tour of the United States. In the US,  the former deputy prime minister held talks with US government officials among them the Director of the Office of East African Affairs David Gilmour and Director of Counter-terrorism Bureau Marc Norman. “When I take over the next government I want to find it with good structures. Unfortunately, this won't be the case since people have been busy stealing and pushing political activities,” he said. Mudavadi told Ruto that government offices are meant to serve the masses and improve their lives. “When people come to the house, which belongs to the government, you tell them I have given you food. You are forgetting that you are using their taxes,” Mudavadi said. He also wants IEBC to investigate activities at the DP's residence following bribery claims. “When people in Kibra say ‘huyo ni hoteli’ (he is a hotel), what does that tell you? It means Jubilee is pouring money against IEBC rules,” Mudavadi said. The ANC leader wants IEBC to monitor the polls closely and ensure a fair playing ground for the candidates. Mudavadi also appealed to the employers to allow voters from Kibra take part in the exercise. “One day will not cost serious implications. However, the vote means a lot to the people in Kibra,” he said.