Good morning, The Kibra by-election has raised questions about President Kenyatta's succession strategy and who he truly supports between ODM leader Raila Odinga and Deputy President William Ruto. While the President has been consistent in his public support and defence of the handshake with Raila, Ruto's supporters insist the President has not abandoned their man. The Kibra by-election has lifted the lid on the President's perceived delicate bid to hold onto the two protagonists in a strategic move not to disrupt the delivery of his Big Four agenda. Here are the other stories making headlines in the Star this morning. In a DVD at the centre of chilling revelations about the murder of rights lawyer Willie Kimani, police informant Peter Ngugi, the fifth accused, reconstructs the crime scenes step by step. But the defence on Tuesday opposed playing of the 47-minute video clip and is to give its reasons on Wednesday morning. Ngugi, in a confession statement read by an investigator in court on Monday, explained how he and police officers Fredrick Leliman, Leonard Mwangi and two others executed Kimani and two others. Many estates in Nairobi are grappling with insecurity in the face of an increased number of criminal gangs. In Dandora, residents say it is difficult to invest, especially in real estate, if one is not known to the ‘big boys’ (as the gangsters are referred to). A developer is required to part with a protection fee. They told the Star the situation is so dire that many residents, who do not want to be beholden to the gangs, have opted to invest elsewhere to protect themselves. They fear for their lives. As the evictions from the Maasai Mau forest gain momentum, mystery still surrounds how schools were constructed inside the complex. The government had given settlers 60 days to move out of the forest voluntarily. The window closed on October 3. This left pupils attending 15 schools in the area in limbo. But the question is how the schools got established in the first place. Eight children who got lost during a forest hunting trip in Lamu East had nothing to eat, curled up under a tree and shivered. They barely slept for fear of attack by wild animals. They relied on a few local dogs they had brought along to guard them. After their rescue on by fishermen Monday, the boys said they got lost on Saturday as they tried to find their way back home. They headed to the shore in hopes of being spotted. There's nothing to eat in a mangrove forest, no fruits or berries, so they stayed hungry.  Cash remittance by Kenyans abroad has slowed after the end of the tax amnesty on foreign earnings on June 30. Data by the Central Bank of Kenya for the January-August period shows Kenyans in the diaspora sent $1.89 billion (Sh196.17 billion) compared to $1.81 billion (Sh187.87 billion) the same period last year. “What we are seeing is there hasn’t been a slowdown in cash inflows despite economic difficulties in some of the donor countries,” Stanbic economist Jibran Qureishi said.