 Up to 2,400 affordable houses will be constructed in Naivasha under a joint partnership between the Nakuru county government, the World Bank and UKaid. The Naivasha Affordable Housing Project (NAHP) targets workers earning between Sh15,000 and Sh150,000 and is expected to start next year. The county on Wednesday said it had repossessed 55 acres near Naivasha slaughterhouse where the houses will be built. The partners met at the Naivasha subcounty officers where they released a Request for Qualification (RFQ) seeking financing for the capital project. Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui said they were among counties in urgent need of affordable houses. He promised to ensure those targeted benefit. Kinyanjui said demand for housing in Naivasha was set to rise with the SGR, Inland Container Depot and an increase in flower farms. “There is need to address the mushrooming of informal estates as they affect planning. The Naivasha housing project will be a game-changer,” Kinyanjui said. The governor said he was concerned about the diminishing agricultural land with owners preferring to put up real estate. He said the project will stem the emergence of slums and that the county will fully support investors in the housing sector. “The land where the houses will be constructed had been grabbed but we have managed to recover it and the nearby slaughterhouse will be relocated,” Kinyanjui said. Simon Walley from the World Bank said that they expect the project to start within twelve months with several financiers having expressed interest. “We have started the first step of Request for Qualification and by December we shall publish the list of the pre-qualifed bidders for this project,” Walley said. He said the project was a noble concept that will spur economic growth within Naivasha town. “Currently there are capital projects like SGR and the dry port in Naivasha and the demand for houses will come in handy in the coming months,” he said. UKaid's Julius Court said with rural to urban migration on the rise, the demand for houses would continue to rise. He noted Kenya has a deficit of two million houses,  hence the need for more affordable houses. edited by peter obuya