Eastern regional coordinator Isaiah Nakoru has condemned security officers who have been accused of harassing residents. Nakuro said any officer caught mistreating a member of the public will be dealt with individually according to the law. He said security officers, as law enforcers, should set good examples and be at the forefront in obeying the law, not doing the opposite. “Our officers, especially policemen whose work is to enforce the law, should be the first to obey the laws so the ordinary people can copy them. So those going against the law that shall be dealt with as individuals. Our officers can’t break the law and expect the law is obeyed and respected," Nakoru said. He spoke on Wednesday at the Kenya School of Government, Embu, where he chaired an inter-counties security meeting that was also attended by Tharaka Nithi and Embu county commissioners, assistant county commissioners, chiefs and assistant chiefs. He was referring to reports in which police officers have been accused by the public of unfair treatment. They have also been accused of using brute force. Some of the most recent incidents include on September 8 when an officer shot matatu driver Martin Mbundi in the left leg for allegedly quarrelling with a Tharaka Nithi county enforcement officer. The officer allegedly waylaid Martin Mbundi, 38, on the Meru-Chuka-Embu highway at 4.30pm near Kangaru Primary School. On Sunday, a nurse at the Runyenjes Level Four Hospital, Mustafa Hamisi, was admitted with injuries in the chest and abdomen after he was allegedly beaten up by an officer for unknown reasons at Runyenjes market. Another resident was also admitted to the Kyieni Mission Hospital with injuries. He claimed he was beaten by an officer when he resisted arrest for a crime he said was not explained to him. Embu county police commander Daniel Rukunga has ordered investigations into the incident. Meanwhile, Nakuro expressed concern over reports of fires breaking out in schools. He urged administrators and school managements to ensure no more fires as students prepare for the national exams. He also asked chiefs to eliminate illicit brews, which he blamed for the rise in crimes in urban and rural areas. He wants regular meetings held to educate the public on the dangers of alcohol and drug abuse. Nakuro asked county commissioners, their deputies and assistants, and chiefs to monitor contractors carrying out government’s projects to ensure they are completed on time to avoid extra costs. (Edited by F'Orieny)