 Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa has called for a robust fight against corruption in the counties for devolution to succeed. Speaking in Kakamega on Tuesday, Eugene said that though devolution was working in some regions, it was a complete failure in others because of poor leadership and corruption. “We must call a spade a spade and ask the EACC and DCI to deal with those behind corruption that is holding devolution back. I have been in all the 47 counties and found that devolution is working and we can do better,” Eugene said. He said that the ministry was exploring possible partnerships between the national and county governments and development partners to strengthen devolution. He spoke during a tour of the Sh6.5 billion Kakamega County and Teaching Referral Hospital. He was with Russian ambassador Dmitry Meksimychev and the United Nations resident coordinator for Kenya Sid Chatterjee. Eugene cited a stalled hospital project in a county in Western that he said had allegedly become a conduit for siphoning public funds. He said the project was an eyesore to devolution. The CS said the story of the refurbished Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Referral and Teaching Hospital in Kisumu, the fruit processing plant in Makueni and the upcoming Referral Hospital in Kakamega were inspiring to devolution. Meksimychev said the Russia government was keen on exploring new opportunities for co-operation and development in the lake region. Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya said the first phase of the referral hospital cost Sh2.1 million and was due for the official launch to be officiated by President Uhuru Kenyatta. The 750-bed capacity hospital is being built in three phases and will cost Sh10 billion, including Sh2 million for purchase of equipment and a further Sh1.5 billion for capacity building and operations. "Phase one will be complete by March 2020 and I do welcome on board any development partner interested and willing to walk this journey with us," Oparanya said. edited by peter obuya