As the Green Commandos open a new chapter in the Football Kenya Federation Division one Zone B league this weekend, a swift return to the National Super League (NSL)  is a priority for Francis Chinjili's charges. Preparations have been in top gear and the team will have to get their high octane game and possession-based running style of play going. The experience will be an asset that the tactician said his team will look to exploit to deliver the sought of all-round play they have been working towards in training. "We are very much ready and our matches kicks off on Sunday. We want to return to NSL. The National Super League is definitely on a higher level than division one  and our experience will be a secret weapon that we have to fully unleash in order to return where we belong." The Kakamega based side whose relocation was inevitable after having an unproductive season has kept the core of the team and lost only two players. Their 18th place finish was insufficient for survival. After successful trials, the team brought in new faces to increase competition for places and improve the bench power. With a strong squad that could potentially result in a selection dilemma, the former Western Stima and Harambee stars striker believes the players will have to prove a point on the field. He also said the task ahead despite not an easy one, is essential that they begin on a higher note. "We've signed a lot of players but we didn’t lose vital ones. Collins Sichenje and the goalkeeper were the only departures to AFC Leopards and Vihiga Bullets respectively. Players have to work extra harder for better results because we are stronger now. We won't underrate any team. I believe in my players to deliver from the first match." Commandos should perhaps brace themselves to collect maximum points in the opening three matches this month. They make their debut away to Egerton on 13th before a home match against Silibwet seven days later. They will be hosted at Sudi Stadium by Bungoma Farmers on October 26.