The top four cars in this year’s KCB Guru Nanak Rally will be in focus this weekend with reigning African champion Manvir Baryan being the man to beat. Manvir’s Skoda Fabia R5 is seeded third in the Sikh Union organised round of the Kenya National Rally Championship which will rev off at the KCB Kitengela branch on Sunday. Manvir has been a hard nut to crack since switching to his R5 Skoda. What’s more, the R4 version of Mitsubishi Lancer Evo10 cars driven by series champion Carl “Flash” Tundo and leader Baldev Chager, have had to be spinning at more than a 100 per cent to keep up with the pace save for last month’s Nanyuki Rally, where the former swept the ground with all his opponents. Tundo is hoping for a repeat of Nanyuki’s Loldaigas. “There can only be one strategy at the moment with everyone driving so well and to try to keep up with the R5s. Flat-out is the way to go and I hope I can repeat Nanyuki feat.” Kabras Sugar Racing lead driver Chager, who currently top the KNRC log, admitted that the championship is still wide open. “Team Kabras is very busy at the moment getting cars ready for the upcoming event. Evos are more or less done and await tests while Polos were a little bit delayed but are well underway after the hill climb event. Guru Nanak being what it is, all the Sikh participants will want to do well and so everyone will be in top form to get the best results,” said Chager. Meanwhile, KNRC Division battles are also expected to take shape this weekend. KNRC Division One will be the class to watch in the second tier classes. Division One favourites are Mombasa duo of Ammar Haq (Evo-X) and Sohanjeet Puee and Karan Patel. Puee, who is the outgoing Division 2 champion after moving up the ranks said: “Preps for Guru Nanak are coming along well. We are still sorting out quite a few issues on the car as the Nanyuki Rally wasn’t kind on it.  The team is psyched up and prepared as always to tackle the rigours of the rally and this time around the team and I are happy to have my uncle (Vicky Singh) racing along side us. He hasn’t been in the rallying scene for more than two years and is definitely looking forward it.” 