Rains pounding Nairobi on Sunday almost caused the Amani National Congress candidate in the Kibra by-election, Eliud Owalo, the embarrassment of his life. Owalo had just arrived at the venue of the rally in the company of his party leader Musalia Mudavadi when it started to drizzle. The rain persisted as Owalo was addressing a jubilant crowd and as expected, event organisers fetched an umbrella for their candidate. Then the unimaginable happened when the umbrella was opened. It was a screaming orange colour — an ODM umbrella at an ANC event. Mudavadi was quick to notice and he told the aides to immediately get rid of the offensive umbrella. ** A woman MP is now crying foul to her faceless rivals who she claimed were now giving her a hard time in her constituency. According to the female lawmaker, her political rivals have a way of including her name in all fundraising cards in the villages, sometimes without confirming with her office her availability. And in cases where she fails to attend or was not aware, the political rivals use that as fodder, traversing the village ‘broadcasting’ how she agreed to be part of the fundraiser only to go missing on the day when she was needed. Corridors overheard the MP pledging to do everything to bring to book the forces behind her anguish. ** A former gubernatorial candidate from Western Kenya who, after losing out in the primaries negotiated a working formula with the incumbent, is now a bitter man. The arrangement, which would have seen the middle-aged man join the incumbent's cabinet, backfired and has now left the man bitter and broke. A mole has told Corridors the man’s hope vanished last month when he missed the plum position he was promised in the deal. In retaliation, he has unleashed a pack of bloggers on the governor who criticise every move by the county boss. ** A candidate in the Kibra by-election on Sunday found himself in a tight corner after youths who were hired to provide security during a rally pelted his convoy with stones over what they claimed was the candidate’s breach of their deal. The youths hired locally complained of braving the afternoon rains only to be ignored at the end when the leaders entered their vehicles without paying them, as the had agreed. The youths who ran out of patience descended on the convoy with stones and demanded their pay. This forced a senior party official who was blocked in the melee to plead with the youths but not before his vehicle’s windows were smashed. Ends…. 