Deputy President William Ruto on Saturday wished President Uhuru Kenyatta a happy 58th birthday and posted a cryptic message through his Twitter handle. Ruto described the President as not only his boss but also his friend. The DP in his birthday message told Uhuru he was looking forward to their retirement plans as they age together. "As we age, am looking forward to what we agreed to do when we retire!! Remember? UBARIKIWE MPAKA USHANGAE!" Ruto said. The DP hailed Uhuru as a great inspiration to him, the Jubilee leadership and the millions of Kenyans as the youngest of the country's presidents. Uhuru has announced on several occasions that he is not interested in extending his rule or taking up any other executive post once he completes his second and final term as President in 2022. There have been rumours across political circles that Uhuru may take up another executive post once his term comes to an end in 2022. COTU boss Francis Atwoli is on record saying the President is too young to retire and should continue leading Kenyans past 2022. His sentiments were echoed by Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko who in June said Uhuru is too young to retire. The governor and Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria under the lobby called Team Wanjiku said the President should lead the country for another term. Sonko said should the President offer good leadership in his remaining three years, the team will initiate countrywide tours to drum up support for a referendum that will allow him to continue. Ruto in May said he is ready to retire and go home with Uhuru should he lose the polls in 2022. During a breakfast show on Kameme FM, the DP said in 2022, the Jubilee Party members will sit down as a party and decide on a flag bearer for the presidency as well as the other elective seats. "If I will not be the flag bearer, I will support the person who the Jubilee Party members choose as their presidential candidate. It is not a must I be the candidate," Ruto said. Ruto reiterated that he is not owed any debt by anyone concerning 2022 polls.