A lost ID card was used to register a phone used in the murder of IJM lawyer Willie Kimani and two others. The witness whose Identification card was used on Tuesday took the stand to give his account. Moses Kariithi, who works at SGR, told the court he lost his ID in January 2016. He reported the matter to Mlolongo police station, where he got an abstract and was advised to visit a Huduma Centre, where he obtained a new ID. Fredrick Leliman, who is first accused and Leonrad Mwangi, fourth accused, were attached to the same station as Administration Police officers during the same time. Though Kariithi said he could not remember which officer gave him the abstract. He said after he obtained a new ID, he got a job opportunity at the Mastermind Tobacco before he moved to Barclays Bank and Later SGR where he works as the Supervisor Transport department. “In July this year, I was called by officer Clement Mwangi from the DCI who told me he wanted to meet me over criminal case,” he said. He added, “Since I did not know who he was, I requested that we meet at DCIO headquarters along Kiambu road.” On arrival, Kariithi said he was told that his ID had been used to register an Airtel number used in commission of a  crime. “I was asked to verify whether that was my number, and where I was on that day. Fortunately, I have never used such a line. I gave police all my details,” he said. The court was told that the new line was registered on June 22, just a day before Kimani and the two others were killed. Meanwhile, the court has adjourned until tomorrow, when the defence lawyers will get an opportunity to make submissions on why they are opposed to the use of a video in which Peter Ngugi made a confession of how the three were brutally murdered. This is after a forensic officer, Joseph Muindi, produced before court a video showing Ngugi confessing. Muindi wanted the video footage - about 41 minutes long - played in court to confirm the confession. Muindi told the court that in August 2016,  he was called to DCI headquarters by inspector Clement Mwangi who requested him to assist him in case construction in the murder trial of Willie Kimani. He said he went to a room where Ngugi was with Mwangi and before anything, they read out the charge to Ngugi so that he would understand what he was facing. “This was to ensure the suspect understands the charges leveled against him before they recorded the confession,” he said. He said they went to several places, including the scene of crime and he recorded all those events. “The first scene was  Mavoko law courts, then they went to where the three were abducted and arrested, then proceeded to Limuru, where the car was disposed. Then later, he took them to Syokimau AP Camp and he showed them the cells where the three were detained. Then he led them to the place where they committed the crime. And lastly, he took them to Oldonyo Sabuk, where he showed them how the bodies were disposed. But  Peter Ngugi's lawyer, Kevin Michuki, opposed the production of the video to be played in court. Michuki said for a fair trial for his client, it should not be played.