Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa has been arrested alongside four others after one person was shot dead on Tuesday. The man was shot dead during a fracas that erupted at the home of ODM candidate Reuben Katana in Ganda ward on Tuesday evening. Trouble allegedly started after Jumwa stormed the home with a view to disrupt the meeting between Katana and ODM agents for the Thursday's by elections, saying the campaign period was over. It's not clear who fired the killer bullet. "A people united will never be defeated. They will never break our resolve!" Jumwa tweeted on Wednesday morning. Jumwa was arrested at around 2am Wednesday when police raided her home having camped at her gate since 10pm after she refused to grant them access. The Malindi MP said she stormed the meeting that was attended by more than 300 people because it was being held past the campaign period. According to police report, they received a tip from members of the public about what was to transpire in the area. "Upon reaching the said place , they found 500 people. The said place had tents pitched all over the compound and there were vehicles and motorcycles parked in the compound of Katana," it read. "And while they were in the process of arresting the organizers of the alleged meeting,  Jumwa arrived in a convoy of three vehicles accompanied by her aids and other unidentified people." The police said they alighted from their vehicles and Jumwa inquired as to what was happening there but the crowd became rowdy and violent. "They started pelting stones and crude weapons at her and her group. A scuffle ensued,the deputy subcounty police commander and his group intervened" the report read. Police said Jumwa's bodyguard started shooting in the air and in the process, the mob started shouting alleging that the bodyguard had shot unknown male adult. "...they became more rowdy and violent forcing the officers to fire in the air to disperse them," police said. The crowd continued to be riotous until the area MP and her group went away. "The injured person was taken to malindi general hospital where he was pronounced dead an arrival."