Kirinyaga leaders clashed on Sunday during the Mashujaa day celebrations over the Sh15 billion proposed Kenya Medical Research Institute project in Mwea constituency. Mwea MP Kabinga Wachira said the county should unconditionally release the tittle of the 100-acre land to Kemri so that the project kicks off. Kabinga was responding to Kirinyaga elder Mureithi Kangara, who had spoken earlier and urged the county government not to release the tittle until an MoU between Kemri and the county is signed stipulating how Kirinyaga residents will benefit from the project. Kangara said many projects in the county do not benefit locals directly and said youths from the area should be assured in writing that they will be given 70 per cent of the unskilled labour jobs. But Kabinga said time was ripe for Mwea constituency to benefit from development projects just like any other constituency in the county. "In Mwea we have been marginalised in terms of development, so let the county  release the tittle for the project to kick start." Kabinga also claimed the county wanted 30 acres of the land in question for the affordable housing project as a condition to release the title deed. He further alleged Deputy Governor Peter Ndambiri had made the request before a Cabinet sitting chaired by interior CS Fred Matiangi. Kabinga was supported by MCAs present during the function, including Simon Waititu of Gathigiriri ward,who said the county should not continue sitting on the title deed. However, DG Ndambiri told off the MP and the ward reps saying as a county government, they are not ready to release county land for a project without written assurance of how the project will benefit Kirinyaga residents. The deputy governor cited Kirinyaga University, Ahiti Ndomba and the ongoing construction of the Thiba dam as projects that are not benefiting Kirinyaga residents in terms of employment. Ndambiri said Kemri should commit in writing to give 85 per cent of unskilled jobs to Kirinyaga residents and also set aside 30 per cent of the slots at the training institute to locals. He also pointed that the board of the new 15 billion projects be headed by a person from Kirinyaga County. 