The Akasha brothers would still be walking free on our streets and recruiting more Kenyans into their business if Americans had not charged them, Interior CS Fred Matiang’i has said. Baktash and Ibrahim Akasha have been convicted of drug trafficking charges in the US courts. “I was asking the DCI how many times they were released on bail and he told me they hardly spent one night in police custody. They walked in and walked out,” the CS said. The CS termed it a shame that had the two not been extradited to the US, they probably would have no chance of facing the law in Kenya. Citing the slow judicial procedures in the country, the CS noted that the war on drugs cannot be won unless each agency does its work. Matiang’i spoke in Nairobi on Monday during the launch of the National Campaign against Drug Abuse Strategic Plan 2019-22. “In the past year, we are happy with how investigations are being done.  It is time others in the chain did their part, convicted people and sent them where they belong which is in prison,” Matiang’i said. He said having served as the Education CS, he knows what drugs have done to educational institutions around the country. “There are parts of this country where I am dealing with a chief or two who need to be taken to rehab or young police officers committing suicide because of challenges related to abuse of drugs,” he said. He termed it unthinkable that someone could be released more than five times on bond when their criminal record is questionable. “Then we are told it is their right. We can’t have human rights looking at one side. Let’s look at both sides. It is also the right of our children to live without these criminals in our midst.” He noted that each one has been called to serve and has been given responsibility to serve fellow Kenyans.  It has come to a point where a multi-agency approach is necessary, he said. He said what he witnessed two months ago when he took a tour to Kisauni was troubling. “I took a day off and walked in Kisauni from end to end of the constituency, and spent the whole day there.  It will take the heart of stone for you not to be moved and pained by what we saw.” According to the CS, nine out 10 of the people he met were aged below 30; out of those, around six had visible effects of the consumption of drugs. “They basically can’t stand or sustain a conversation. We have to task ourselves, face up and deal with this situation head-on, or else we will sink as a society,” he said. Matiang’i lamented that despite the effort put in tracing people across the country who are engaging in the drugs business, they were always released on bond. “They walk into magistrate's court and are released on bond. Isn’t it shameful? It is going to be a painful war. If that is what is going to take to liberate our country then so be it. We will walk on the path of reform,” he said. He warned citizens against intimidating regional commissioners. Should they get lorries transporting drugs, he said, the administrators should burn them, as has been done with gambling machines. DCI George Kinoti and Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai, while speaking at the same event, said the war was not easy as it involves simple ordinary people. The Judiciary has in the past come into sharp criticism over how it handles various cases, especially corruption-related. The DPP has on several occasions decried that even though suspects are arrested, they are released on very unrealistic bond or cash bail terms. Edited by R.Wamochie