Good morning, Ida Odinga suffered a blow yesterday when the High Court rejected her bid to gag the media in a case against her daughter-in-law Lwam Getachew Bekelle. The court, however, ordered a DNA test to ascertain the paternity of the Fidel Odinga twins and instructed the media not to mention the minors' names. Ida is the wife of ODM leader Raila Odinga. Here are the other stories making headlines in the Star this morning. Senators have termed the Sh63 billion Managed Equipment Services programme "the biggest scandal of our time" after a damning submission by governors in the ongoing inquiry into the scheme. Council of Governors chairman Wycliffe Oparanya (Kakamega) and Laikipia's Nderitu Muriithi disclosed that the programme was an exclusive affair of top officials in the Ministry of Health who negotiated and executed the deal while keeping the county chiefs in the dark. President Uhuru Kenyatta on Wednesday launched the Nairobi Expressway, a first of its kind in Kenya. The project, to be implemented by Kenha, will be a four lane dual carriageway. The project connects the Nairobi-Mombasa section and the Nairobi-Malaba section.  Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa and her bodyguard, Okuto Otieno, will spend the night in the cells awaiting arraignment on Thursday morning. The two are being held at the court police station. Jumwa and Otieno appeared before senior resident magistrate Vincent Adet on Wednesday but there was no charge sheet. Six months after taking up the reins at the Education ministry, CS George Magoha seems to be a man under siege. He is no longer happy. His resentment has been bought about by vested interests and power struggles that have led to disconnected working relations between him and some officers at Jogoo House. Yesterday, he made a noise that he is being frustrated in his efforts to reform the sector. Lawyer Philip Murgor has been seen on several occasions holding hands with his client, Sarah Cohen, which has elicited mixed reactions. However, the former Director of Public Prosecutions says it’s purely an advocate-client relationship. He says he had to be there to support Sarah, especially after the public condemnation she faced over the death of her husband, which she still maintains she is innocent of and would want to know the killers.