Residents of Bangale division in Tana River want a conflict between Kamba and Somali communities resolved. Hostilities between the two communities have resulted in the loss of lives, property and livestock. The Kamba community in Kitui county have accused Somali herders of forcefully grazing their animals on their farms.  But the herders say they only cross over into Kitui in search of water and pasture. Community elders told journalists in Bangale that they were not satisfied with how the government was trying to end the hostilities. Abdullahi Abdille, an elder, said that the two communities need each other and will still transact business among themselves once the feud is over. “If the border dispute is resolved it will not stop the Kambas from crossing over to do business with the Somali community. Somalis will still cross over to Kitui during drought as has been the case for decades now,” he said. Abdille said political leaders were fueling the problem by inciting their communities against the other in the pretext of defending their boundaries. An old video clip of Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu urging youths to protect their property went viral in the wake of the recent skirmishes. It forced the National Cohesion and Integration Commission to clarify that the clip was under investigation and a report would be issued soon. Reacting to the video clip, Abdille said residents were alarmed at Ngilu's remarks. “You can’t imagine the tension these utterances have generated. Our women who used to vend milk in Ukase can no longer step foot for fear of being attacked. Ngilu being a mother should be the one preaching peace,” he said. Abdullahi Wachu said the government should treat the communities equally and not be seen to favour one as is now the case. “Let us all be governed by the Constitution and the rule of law. Above all, the two communities should respect each other as neighbours,” he said. Amina Moti urged Somali herders to stop forcefully grazing their livestock in farms belonging to the Kamba saying that this is the cause of the problem. On Monday, Interior CS Fred Matiangi met all political leaders from the pastoral community and those of Kitui county in a bid to resolve the protracted boundary dispute. (edited by O. Owino)