Kenya Defensive Pistol shooting team stunned a field of over 500 firers to garner five medals at the just concluded 2019 SIG Sauer IDPA World Championships at the Civilian Marksmanship Program Range in Talladega, Alabama, USA. The team of 12, captained by Anthony Wahome, raked in one gold medal, silver and three bronze in their maiden appearance at the global shooting bonanza. Kenya and South Africa, who fielded six-shooters, became the first African country in history to participate at the IDPA World Championships. The showpiece attracted 29 countries shooting in 16 different Courses of Fire (CoF). “I am proud of the team. We did not just come to taste the waters at the world stage, we came to contest for accolades,” said Wahome. Marksman Elizabeth Washianga of Kenya Prisons Service was the only woman in the Kenya lineup and won gold in the law enforcement's Stock Service Pistol (SSP) category. Prison Service's Daniel Kyalo, also a law enforcer, ranked 10th in the SSP Expert showdown. Civilian firearm holder Sharpshooter Peter Njoroge bagged silver, firing a Compact Carry Pistol (CCP). Sharpshooters Amos Kimaru and Geoffrey Pesa ranked fourth each in the SSP and Enhanced Service Pistol (ESP) respectively. Pesa was the first African to compete in two gun disciplines at the Worlds- shooting the Pistol Caliber Carbine (PCC) and pistol. Expert Wahome, the National Gun Owners Association (NGAO) of Kenya too bronze in the the ESP class. Competing in the highest defensive pistol shooting classification, Master Robert Nyamongo and Master Sammy Onyango, both engineers by profession sealed the podium positions (bronze medals) in the ESP and SSP categories respectively. Shooting in the SSP category, Marksman duo of Geoffrey Muema and Bamburi Rifle Club’s Hakim Daud finished the tournament in positions five and six respectively. NGAO-Kenya now shifts focus to the upgrading of the Kirigiti Shooting Range ahead of the 2020 IDPA Africa Championships and a tier four/two-match next February.