Most parents and guardians made the mistake of rushing to bathe girls who have been defiled or sexually assaulted — and that destroys evidence. Gender and Children's Department investigating Officer Christine Mwaka has cautioned residents against tampering with evidence as that hinders justice. Her statement came after Waa Chief Mohamed Gakurya accused courts of freeing rape and defilement perpetrators. Speaking at Ukunda in Kwale County during a capacity-building training on law addressing child and early marriages, Mwaka said some cases of defilement cannot proceed further because they lack verified information. She said in most reports of sexual violation, parents rush to wash their children before taking them to hospital, thus, hence removing DNA evidence and interfering with investigations, "The majority of guardians normally take their daughters to bathe after they are exposed to rape or any other vice, not knowing that they are destroying every bit of proof,” Mwaka said. She said doctors find it hard to fill in the P3 form even if the child was truly harmed, and have difficulty verifying facts. The officer said that for parents and guardians to be professional and protect children, indecent sexual acts should be immediately reported to police for proper guidance. “Please forward the issue to law enforcement officers the moment it comes to your attention so that the victims of defilement and rape can be correctly directed on what to do next,” she said. Mwaka said that schoolgirls above 18 years who willingly consent to sexual acts cannot be treated as having been defiled. She said the laws of Kenya clearly states that an adult is a person of 13 years of age with or without an Identity Card. The officer said it is a right for every citizen to be given a bond in a law court tand to give their side of the case. She said the complainants must be patient and let justice prevail in the courts. Equality Now Programme Manager Jean Paul said, however, that laws should be enacted to protect all students,  regardless of age. (dited by V. Graham)