Thirdway Alliance party leader Ekuru Aukot has criticised the Punguza Mizigo Initiative opponents led by Deputy President William Ruto. Aukot said the latest debate by politicians that the Bill has been rejected by Kenyans is pure malice. "It is outright lies that the Bill has hit a dead end as claimed recently by the Deputy President," Aukot said. Aukot said the bill has only been discussed in seven out of the 47 county assemblies. "We are shocked that a small group of insensitive leaders are out there lying in brought daylight and pouring out cold water on this pro-people initiative," Aukot said. He added that some of the nominated MCAs said that they have been threatened to be rendered jobless if they support the bill seeking to amend the Constitution. Aukot said the intention of the bill is to bring development close to the local Kenyans which he said is contrary to the current constitution. The Thirdway Alliance party leader called on MCAs in counties that are yet to table the Bill to debate it without being intimidated or influenced by the initiative's opponents. "We urge the remaining county assemblies that have not debated this bill to do so with sobriety and integrity. Pass it or reject it on its merits or demerits," Aukot said. DP Ruto last weekend said failure to involve or collect the views of Kenyans on any constitutional amendments will fail. Ruto has maintained that any plans to amend the constitution through the back door will fail. He said such plans can only go through if the views of Kenyans are put into serious consideration. "If they are looking for ways to change the Constitution, they must learn from the collapse of Punguza Mizigo Initiative that did not take into account the views of the ordinary people," Ruto said. Ruto rather vowed to ensure the voice of the ordinary Kenyans are heard if the  Building Bridges team will present such recommendations. Seven counties have so far rejected the bill with Uasin Gishu being the only one which has endorsed it. The bill has been rejected in Kiambu, Kirinyaga, Nyeri, West Pokot, Muranga, Nyamira and Kisii counties.