Despite beating Western Jaguars 2-1 at the City Park Stadium yesterday,  Police coach Patrick Mugambi believes there is still work to be done especially in midfield. After scoring the first goal in the rain-drenched surface, Police were sloppy and their lead hang on a thread as they were overrun in midfield by a talented Jaguars side. Often branded as a physically fit side, Police looked out of sorts and tired and ahead of their match against USIU on Saturday, Mugambi promised to ring changes. He said: "We've won but the result does not reflect our performance. We were sluggish in midfield and the absence of Willis Okeyo was greatly felt." "I will have to redeploy Oliver Echenje on the left side of the midfield to bring the much-needed stability," said Mugambi. His opposite number, Michael Malungu wants his charges to make their chances count, avoid concentration lapse and toughen up mentally. They might as well feel undone and believe they should have left Nairobi with at least with a point. "We were the better side in the entire game and we have to play to the whistle. We looked very fresh despite playing on Saturday. Obviously, I am disappointed but we need to have a strong character and be merciless in front of goal. Do not forget that this is an inexperienced side and majority are students," said Malungu. Police spurned two clear-cut early chances. Samuel Oungo missed from the penalty spot four minutes into the game as Samuel Wokila failed from one on one with Jaguars' goalkeeper before Robert Masibo's well-taken flick proved the difference in the 14th minute. The introduction of strikers Govan Mbeki and Eric Juma for Titus Kimutai and Wokila in the second quarter slowed Police' pace upfront as Jaguars blew hot for an equalizer. The Kakamega side drew level with a 38th-minute strike from Ivan Luduali- thanks to the deflection but nine minutes later Police scored the winner from a short corner with Moses Cheplaiti the hero. Jaguars return home empty-handed after succumbing to 3-0 loss in the hands of Wazalendo on Saturday. John Rioba, Sutcliffe Usugi and Kennedy Munialo were all on target. Jaguars will have to strategize on how to get the better of Meshack Senge's Strathmore scorpions on November 2.