The controversial Sh1.2 billion Mitubiri Sanitary Landfill is 40 per cent complete, a Murang'a official has said. Murang’a Environment executive Cecilia Kibe said the contractor is compacting the soil and will soon start planting trees around the buffer zone. She said the project, which was started in 2017 is expected to be completed by March next year. She said a petition filed in court seeking to have the project stopped over inadequate public participation was concluded. The Nairobi Metropolitan Services Improvement Project (Namsip) that is undertaking the project, was advised to intensify public participation to help locals understand the concept of the landfill. Namsip then took a section of local leaders to Tanzania while MPs were flown to South Africa, Kibe said. Namsip also has a big schedule for continuous public participation forums for the local community and has gone to the grassroots to help residents understand what it is, Kibe said on Saturday during a clean-up drive in Murang’a town. “Namsip officials are able to simplify the concept of landfill technology using local languages and explain any queries people may have about it,” she added. In March last year, the Ministry of Transport, Infrastructure, Housing and Urban development halted its construction, saying it had generated a lot of adverse publicity due to inadequate consultations. “Consequently, I have directed the development of this project to stop with immediate effect until widespread public consultation and participation has been undertaken and a consensus agreed amongst key stakeholders,” Cabinet Secretary James Macharia said. The project on 50 acres in Maragua was fiercely fought by residents who said it would contaminate groundwater. They said they relied on boreholes and streams for water and sought assurances that the waste would not seep into the ground. In the landfill, organic waste will be buried and compacted in the ground. The project was initially meant to process waste from the five Nairobi Metropolitan counties including Nairobi, Kajiado, Machakos, Kiambu and Murang’a. But after the residents' uproar, it was downsized to take waste from Murang’a. The CEC noted that once complete, the landfill will change environmental conservation in the county and help to keep it clean. She said garbage collection stations will be established where waste will be gathered before being transported to the landfill. “This project will be very good for the county as it will eliminate garbage collection delays,” Kibe said. Murang’a has had a challenge of garbage collection which she said is worsened by the mindset of the community. “Much as the county government tries to collect the garbage, there is a very high level of littering as people think it is the role of the government to keep the environment clean,” she said. She said the county government will complete the procurement of two garbage trucks by early December  