Taita Taveta Governor Granton Samboja on Wednesday fired three county executives in a reshuffle in which four new people were brought in. Samboja left out Frank Mwangemi (Education), Haughton Mombo (Public Works) and Janet Oben (Tourism). Mwangemi was replaced by Daniel Makoko, who initially held the Health Services docket. A statement signed by the Communications director and county spokesman Denis Onsarigo identified the new executives as Cromwell Mwakirungu (Health Services), Andrew Kubo (Finance and Economic Planning), Margaret Righa (Trade, Tourism and Gender) and Mwandawiro Mghanga (Lands, Mining and Housing). Mwandawiro is a former Wundanyi MP and human rights activist.  He was the governor's political adviser. “The three executives did not feature in the governor’s final list of today’s changes, I, therefore, believe they have been dropped. This is just part of the many changes that are happening now. We should expect more,” Onsarigo told the Star on the phone. Gertrude Shuwe was moved from Lands to replace Mombo at Public Works. Acting Finance CEC Davis Mwangoma has been retained as the Agriculture executive. Samboja also fired his economic adviser Sylvester Mwaliko and chief of staff and private secretary Philemon Mwaisaka. “The restructuring is still ongoing. The governor wishes to extend his heartfelt appreciation to the government officials and wishes them the very best in their future endeavours,” the statement reads. The nomination of the two new CECs arrived at after a rigorous and tedious process aimed at enhancing service delivery within the government, Onsarigo said. The nominees will be vetted by the county assembly. The county chief had, on Mashujaa Day at Ghazi, promised a shake-up in his administration. He said his desire is to see people of Taita Taveta lead a decent life. “I know the county is still many pressing challenges, but with commitment and focus, all our programmes remain on course. The next year of my administration shall be defined by a renewed focus on continued service delivery to our people." Several chief officers were also moved to new departments in what Onsarigo said was a re-organisation of departments and directorates. Education CO Philomena Kirote was moved to Health Services and Tourism's Simon Mwachia moved to take her position. Isaack Makange is the chief officer of the newly restructured Sports, Youth and Social Services department while Sylvanus Mwakoma was moved to the Water, Environment and Sanitation department. Mwakoma formerly held the Sports docket. It was not clear what had become of Health Services CO Christine Mwakera and her Water counterpart Justus Singi as their names were not in the new list. Governor Samboja made the changes after surviving an impeachment motion passed unanimously by the assembly on grounds of inciting the public against the assembly. This followed an impasse over the county budget that led the governor to petition the President to dissolve the county. Senators dismissed MCAs' grounds of Samboja's removal last week on Thursday. Edited by R.Wamochie