Did you know you can directly report cases of Gender-Based Violence to the State Department of Gender through the helpline 1195? The Healthcare Assistance Kenya hotline is in partnership with the department to help victims of Gender-Based Violence get healthcare assistance and referrals. The hotline, however, only caters to survivors of sexual and gender violence around the country. "Its unique value lies in the fact that it is linked to local facilities that provide medical treatment and prevention of infections, legal aid and rescue centres," the ministry said. Speaking during the National Conference on Gender-Based Violence on Wednesday, Gender CS Margaret Kobia said since 2007, the hotline has received 27,877 cases of gender violence. "Out of the cases, 14,139 are reported by women and 8,539 by girls. Most cases recorded are from Nairobi county with least cases from Wajir county," she said. Kobia added that despite having a progressive Constitution, gender violence continues to be a serious hindrance. "I challenge all us to meaningfully engage and collectively identify the missing link in preventing and responding to GBV." According to a study conducted by the National Gender and Equality Commission on the economic burden of gender violence in Kenya in 2017, the average medical cost per survivor and family amounted to Sh16,464. Reporting the incident to a chief and community structures costs Sh3,111 while reporting to the police costs Sh3,756. "Productivity loss from serious injuries amounted to Sh223,476, minor injuries (Sh18,623) and Sh5,840,664 from premature mortality," the CS said. PS Safina Kwekwe said the helpline is available all through. "It is a safe place to report as a victim of gender violence or someone witnessing gender violence," she said. Law enforcement agencies were also encouraged to double their efforts in the fight against sexual and gender violence. Police Director of Reforms Jasper Nyauma said the police service is the first place survivors will run to. Nyauma added that the ongoing reorganisation of the service will ensure services are brought closer to the people. He said police would be trained on how to handle cases of gender violence using a developed curriculum and module. "We have established the GBV unit at police stations which has made good progress. It might not be as fast but we have hope," he said. The service is currently working on a standard operating procedure that will be police-specific and ensure survivors receive standardised procedures when reporting, Nyauma said. Government chemist Ali Gakweli said prosecution of sexual and gender violence would be able to rely on DNA results in two years. He said the government has acquired new hi-tech machines that will enhance the analysis of samples collected from crime scenes. He also said collection, packaging and submission of samples are important to ensure they are not destroyed by bacteria. Edited by R.Wamochie