Nouveau riche Wazito will look to continue their effort to bridge the gap at the top of the Kenyan Premier League to resuscitate their flagging title aspirations even this early in the season. After making an overhaul to their squad with late signings that included the likes of title winners Ali Abondo, Karim Nizigiyimana and Abouba Sibomana, Wazito looked every inch a title contender. But five points in four matches is hardly the mark of a champion in waiting. Today, they take on another team that has eyes on the league title, Mathare United, who are above them by a point and a position at ninth. Coach Fred Ambani says the team will build on last weekend’s win over Zoo. “We are going for maximum points. We want to build on last weekend’s win and get the three points. We know that it will not be easy because we face a tough side but we are going to give our best to earn maximum points,” said Ambani. Last weekend's victory over Zoo was Wazito’s first in the league and Ambani believes that was a turning point in their quest to keep pace with the leading pack. “When you play well but you don’t get the desired result, sometimes it affects your confidence. Last weekend’s win was very vital because it gives my boys the much-needed self-belief. When you approach matches confidently chances of getting the desired results are high,” he stated. Western Stima have a chance to return to the top of the table at least for 24 hours when they entertain  Ulinzi Stars at Mumias Sports Complex. The tie had initially been scheduled for Kisumu but was moved. AFC Leopards, meanwhile, will be in Awendo seeking to extend their winning run to three matches. Chemelil Sugar who are yet to put a point on the board in three attempts will be at home to a Karioabngi Sharks that is not firing on all cylinders either. Tomorrow, leaders Gor Mahia will be in Nakuru to take on Zoo Kericho. Steven Polack's charges will be aiming to maintain their unblemished start to their third title defence with a victory over the Kericho outfit. Bandari, touted as Gor's most serious challengers, take on former champions Sofapaka in Machakos.