Kenyan Premier League champions Gor Mahia have been handed a tough draw against Congolese side DC Motema Pembe in the last 32 round of the CAF confederation cup that was done on Wednesday night. "Every team in this round is there on merit and we did not have an opponent that we preferred to come up against. We have to just prepare well for the game against Motema Pembe just like we could have done had we even met Bandari,” remarked  Gor midfielder Lawrence Juma. Bandari, who are Kenya's other representatives, are venturing into an unknown territory, where they battle Guinea's Horoya. “The only advantage, I believe, is that we will be playing the second leg at home. But still, we have to ensure that we have a chance to reach the knockout stage by getting a good result in the away leg,” said Bandari playmaker Danson Chetambe. The draw done in Cairo pitted winning teams from the second preliminary round of the second-tier competition against losing teams from the second preliminary round of the CAF Champions League. The first leg matches have been fixed for October 27 and the return leg matches will take place on November 3, with the winners progressing to the group stage. Egyptian legend Ahmed Hassan assisted the draw conducted by CAF Deputy General Secretary, Anthony Baffoe, at the ceremony attended by representatives of the qualified teams. Also in attendance were CAF First Vice President, Constant Omari, Fifa Secretary-General and General Delegate for Africa, Fatma Samoura and members of the CAF Organising Committee for Interclubs and Club Licensing. CAF Confederation Last 32 Fixtures Horoya (Guinea) vs Bandari (Kenya) Young Africans (Tanzania) vs Pyramids (Egypt) Enyimba (Nigeria) vs TS Galaxy (South Africa) Zamalek (Egypt)/Generation Foot (Senegal) vs ESAE (Benin) Asante Kotoko vs San Pedro (Cote d'Ivoire) KCCA (Uganda) vs Paradou (Algeria) Gor Mahia (Kenya) vs DC Motema Pembe (DR Congo) UD Songo (Mozambique) vs Bidvest Wits (South Africa) Elect Sport (Chad) vs Djoliba (Mali) Green Eagles (Zambia) vs HUSA (Morocco) Cano Sports (Equatorial Guinea) vs Zanaco (Zambia) Fosa Juniors (Madagascar) vs RS Berkane (Morocco) Cote d'Or (Seychelles) vs Al Masry (Egypt) ASC Kara (Togo) vs Rangers (Nigeria) FC Nouadhibou (Mauritania) vs Triangle United (Zimbabwe) El Nasr (Libya) vs Proline (Uganda)