Former world number one Andy Murray has been named in Britain’s team for next month’s revamped Davis Cup tournament as he continues his encouraging comeback from career-saving hip surgery. The 32-year-old Scot, who won the European Open on Sunday for his first title in over two years, joins his doubles playing brother Jamie, along with Dan Evans and Neal Skupski in the Leon Smith-captained team. A fifth member will be confirmed later. Britain have been pitted in Group E with Kazakhstan and Netherlands for the inaugural 18-team finals in Madrid from November 18-24. The teams compete in six round-robin groups of three with the six group winners and the two second-placed teams with the best record based on sets and games won advancing to the quarter-finals. World number one Novak Djokovic will represent Serbia in Group A against France and Japan, while world number two Rafa Nadal is in Spain’s team in Group B against Croatia and Russia. Elsewhere, Wayward tennis talent Nick Kyrgios may be a “different character” but Australia’s Davis Cup team is better with him in it, according to captain Lleyton Hewitt. Hewitt, who omitted Kyrgios from a February tie against Bosnia and Herzegovina for failing “cultural standards”, has ended the 24-year-old’s exile by naming him in the team for next month’s revamped finals in Spain. Twice Grand Slam champion Hewitt has looked past Kyrgios’s recent behaviour, which has included a major meltdown at a tournament in Cincinnati in August, and subsequently branding the men’s ATP Tour as “pretty corrupt” during the U.S. Open. Kyrgios earned a suspended six-month ban in September for those transgressions but it only applies to the ATP Tour and not the Davis Cup. “Nick’s a different character and I understand that and we’re not always going to put everybody in the same box,” Hewitt told reporters on Tuesday.  “You’ve got to deal with different personalities in all kind of sports, and I feel like I know Nick as well as anyone. “I feel like on the Davis Cup court he’s done everything I’ve needed in the past whenever he’s been a part of the team. He hasn’t put a foot wrong.”