 The County Government earned Sh12,907,647 as penalties for illegal water connection in the 2018-2019 financial year. The City Court fined 232 people a total of Sh3,199,000 in the same period, according to the Water Department at City Hall. The department unearthed 1,834 illegal water connections and regularised 893 in the ongoing crackdown. The estates with most illegal water connections were Mathare North, Baba Dogo, Kayole, Tassia, Embakasi, Kware and Imara Daima. The others are Githurai, Zimmerman, Kasarani, Mwiki, Kiamaiko, Huruma and both North and South Kariobangi. County Environment, Water and Sanitation executive Vesca Kagongo said on Wednesday that they will not relent on the crackdown that involves sub-county administrators, the Inspectorate and the Nairobi Water Company. “It is an ongoing exercise targeting informal settlements where the demand for water is high. Cartels see this as their opportunity to make money by illegally connecting water for sale,” Kagongo said. In January, a Water Department report indicated that Nairobi loses Sh3.7 billion annually in non-revenue water (water produced but lost through leakage or theft). This is 40 per cent of the capital city's total water supply. Kagongo emphasised the importance of building owners to ensure that their water connections are regularised. “We are talking to everyone in the (water) chain to ensure that all city residents have a reliable and steady supply of water," she said. The executive said illegal water connections have frustrated efforts to provide sufficient, clean and reliable water to city residents. She disclosed that City Hall was contemplating closing water connections running through sewer lines or parallel to drainage systems for the sake of health and safety. Governor Mike Sonko recently warned county officials against engaging in illegal water activities. “We know those who are engaging in illegal activities. Water is mandatory to everyone, regardless of where they live. Soon, we will be naming and shaming them,” Sonko said after meeting water management teams.