 Time is a master healer but for David Gachuki Mwangi, that is just a saying. The 56-year-old sat thoughtfully under a mango tree in his Kabatini home in Bahati, Nakuru county. He stared at his daughter’s grave. Veronica Muthoni died on October 21, 2017 after their helicopter crashed into Lake Nakuru. On board was Sam Gitau, Anthony Kipyegon, John Njuguna Mapozi, Muthoni and pilot Apollo Malowa. The 5Y-NMJ aircraft plunged into the lake shortly after taking off from Jarika County Lodge in Nakuru town. The bodies of Malowa and Kipyegon were recovered on October 23, two days after the crash, while that of Muthoni was retrieved from the waters on November 16, slightly over three weeks after the tragedy. The bodies of Gitau and Mapozi were never found. Kenyans might have moved on from the tragedy but not families of the victims. "We are still traumatised," Mwangi told the Star during an interview at his home. Mwangi says Muthoni's grave is a constant reminder that she will never be back. Wearing a red striped short-sleeved shirt, brown corduroy trouser and blue sandals, Mwangi often gets into deep reflection. He vividly recalls the last conversation he had with his daughter on the eve of her tragic death. Muthoni was supposed to travel from Nakuru town to their rural home but called her father to say she had a function to attend and would therefore not be going home. “Little did I know that it was the last time I would hear from her,” Mwangi says in a trembling voice. He said the daughter died exactly a week after celebrating her 23rd birthday. “Her birthdays were very special occasions in this homestead and she insisted that I should not forget them. I miss her. It is terrible to me that her death anniversary almost coincides with her birthday,” Mwangi said. He proposed that a day be set aside for all affected families to have a joint venue where annual memorial services for all the five victims is held. “Holding a memorial service at the lake's shores is a tiresome and expensive affair. It limits the number of persons willing to attend and at the same time may inconvenience operations at the park," he said. “We will consult with both county and national governments on how we can jointly remember our beloved ones without inconveniences.” Mwangi said owners of the aircraft and victims’ families had agreed on an out of court settlement that had been mediated by Nakuru Senator Susan Kihika. “They appear to have reneged on meeting their part of the bargain. Following consultations between the families and Kihika, we resolved to pursue compensation through courts.” "That was not the route we intended to take but we're still open to other ways of resolving the issue if they demonstrate willingness.” Kipyegon, Gitau and Mapozi worked for Kihika. She described them as fallen soldiers who died in the line of duty. "The crash robbed us of great, industrious and ambitious youth who were going to make it very far. I was really heartbroken by the news of their death,” Kihika said. Muthoni was pursuing a course in catering when the cruel hand of death grabbed her. She had developed interest in politics. "Life without my daughter has been difficult. Her absence has been palpable," Mwangi said. Muthoni was his firstborn. "She was the torchbearer. The family still grapples with the gap she left. It is agonising but we hope the strength of God will bring us to closure by accepting Muthoni won't come back." In his five-acre farm, the man grows vegetables and cereals. He says he was happy to hear that families who lost their loved ones in the Ethiopian Airlines plane crash of March 10 will receive Sh15 million each from Boeing in compensation. “It is a victory for victims’ family in the sense that the compensation, does not take away a family member’s right to file a lawsuit against Boeing,” he said. Mwangi appealed to the government to make public the report on the crash that claimed her daughter. “We still don’t know what happened. We are also appealing to the court to fast track hearing of the suit in which we are praying for compensation,” he said. Muthoni's portraits adorn the family’s living room, creating the impression that though she is gone; she is still with her family members. Mwangi treasures video footage that captured the proceeding during her burial. Captain Gilbert Kibe, the Director-General of the Kenya Civil Aviation Authority, said the time it takes for an aircraft crash report to be released depends on many factors. "The period taken depends on the circumstances investigators face. However, the mandate lies with the chief investigator of aircraft accidents, who is under the Ministry of Transport,” Kibe said.  edited by peter obuya