Kenyans have expressed disappointment with the recently launched Jomo Kenyatta International Airport (JKIA)-Westlands Expressway that will cut through Uhuru Park. President Uhuru Kenyatta on October 16 commissioned the Sh62.1 billion expressway project in Nairobi. The 18.586-kilometre road project will start at JKIA and terminate at James Gichuru, along Waiyaki Way, in Westlands. The mega project will be undertaken by the China Road and Bridge Corporation (CRBC) on a public-private partnership (PPP) basis. On Wednesday, the hashtag #HandsoffUhuruPark, was the top trending topic as Kenyans voiced their displeasure in the project. A faction of netizens said the iconic Uhuru Park should not be touched citing the fight by conservationists who fought for its preservation including Nobel laureate the late Wangari Maathai. "She was beaten, put in detention to save this park, she fought too hard for it. Wangari Mathai is crying coz of what happened to Nairobi national park, the same can't happen to Uhuru park. Find an alternative way Mr President!,"Joe Sagana tweeted. "I wish she (Wangari Maathai) was alive and since she's not I will stand in the gap," Simon Mbutu senior said. "She was beaten and her hair pulled out of her head for Uhuru (Freedom) Park. She was detained and physically messed during those days.. we can't let her blood spill for a road we don't need and China will control for 30 years," Syombua Kibue said. Other Kenyans have accused the Chinese contractors of overpricing the project and exploiting Kenyan land. Lord Abraham tweeted, "Sh60 billion is enough to do 60% of the Nairobi BRT whose total cost is estimated at KShs 100 Billion. That is a project that would have more impact on the entire city, unlike this 17 km road that will not reduce traffic jams." "The Chinese have utilized very little space while building four-tier roads huku kwao. I've driven through tens of tunnels, some 3km long kwa CBD! They have the tech, why not use it in Kenya? I'm just but a farmer, but honestly; we don't need to touch Uhuru Park!," Michael Keringa said. Enoch Cheruiyot tweeted, "A BIG Scam is Coming very soon... This Transport CS Macharia has dealt Kenya the worst. From SGR to Expressway. Let him keep his #HandsOffUhuruPark and #StopTheExpressway." John Karugia wrote, "Never Again Kenya Never again, shall we let our lands be taken from us to benefit foreign peoples. Never again, shall we watch home guards cooperate with foreign peoples to destroy our lands. Never again, shall our dignity be trampled upon by foreign peoples." "Why can't you @UNEnvironment sanction Kenya for their Chinese plan to destroy Uhuru part in Nairobi in the name of a road to nowhere! Kenya's traffic problem is due to poor city management, Wangari Mathai fought this..& we will," Mwalimu Njuguna tweeted. The project which is set to be implemented by Kenha, will be a four-lane dual carriageway The expressway will have 10 interchanges, including the SGR terminus at JKIA, Eastern Bypass, Southern Bypass and Enterprise Road. Unlike ongoing projects, where the government has secured loans to fund construction, the government says the PPP framework agreement will see CRBC invest its own money and later recoup its investment from toll fees paid by motorists using the road. The agreement signed between CRBC and Kenya National Highway Authority (KENHA) will also see motorists pay toll fees before exiting at various interconnections. Apart from Uhuru Park and The University of Nairobi, other properties affected are NextGen Mall, Khalsa Primary School, parts of the Railways Club, St Pauls University of Nairobi Catholic Chapel, Military Camp and National Persons with Disabilities plots in Westlands.