Good morning, Fresh bribery allegations against the Senate's watchdog committee have emerged. Members of the Senate’s County Public Accounts and Investments Committee (CPAIC) have been accused of demanding bribes to clear governors with adverse Auditor General's reports. In the new allegations, a governor who was recently questioned by the committee told the Star that a CPAIC member had demanded Sh100 million to 'manage the senators'. The Auditor General has flagged several unexplained and unsupported expenditures in the county amounting to hundreds of millions. Here are the other stories making headlines in the Star this morning. Monica Okoth has accepted that the late Kibra MP Ken Okoth is the father to Anne Thumbi's son. In a consent filed in court on Tuesday by all lawyers, Monica and Okoth's mother alongside Nthumbi have all asked the court to mark the matter as closed. Monica's lawyer Walker Kontos said all parties have agreed that Okoth is the minor's biological father. Do you want to stay young forever? If yes, then visit the Nairobi Trade Fair show and get yourself snail cream at Sh2,000. "The snail cream has anti-aging effects, removes acne and treats dark spots. It is also used to heal burns and relieve pain," Ivy Rose told the Star at the Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology exhibition stand at the show. The university's department of horticulture is showcasing opportunities for farmers who wish to venture into snail farming. About Sh7.38 billion value of in Sh1000 notes is wealth that lost to owners holding it, Central Bank of Kenya governor Patrick Njoroge has said. In a briefing after demonetisation process, as at September 30, Sh209.6 billion (209.661 million pieces) had been exchanged out of Sh217 billion (217 million pieces) in circulation as at June when the process was announced. Therefore, Sh7.386 billion are still held by individuals as worthless money. When he was recruited to the Kenya Medical Research Institute after completing studies at Masinde Muliro University, McDonald Orangi, 25, felt cheated. The self-taught artist and biotechnology graduate worked at the institute just a month before deciding to quit and follow his passion. "When you are recruited, they keep saying they are giving you experience so you have more on your CV, but you find yourself doing donkey work for peanuts," he said. Some 90km away from Nairobi, past the dusty country town of Naivasha, the lake that bears a similar name emerges from the thicket of cacti and sand olive trees. It is fringed by grassy banks and thick papyrus, providing a home to more than 400 hippos, some seen in bloats lying half-submerged in the water. But there's more to this lake than its beauty and the large bloats of hippo.