The National Assembly’s Environmental and Natural Resources Committee has asked the government to do sufficient background checks on dam contractors  before awarding them tenders. The committee chaired by Maara MP Kareke Mbiuki further said the government, upon engaging a contractor, should do continuous due diligence to evaluate the capacity of contractors to complete work. The committee, which was looking into the status of dams in the country, explained that due diligence will ensure the financial capacity of the contractor does not shift in the course of the project. It asked the government to forthwith stop any process of procurement for all dam projects that are at the planning stage and review financial aspects to ascertain whether the country will get value for money. The committee made the recommendations following an inquiry that sought to establish the reasons for the slow progress of construction of dams and why some projects were being allocated funds year after year. “Whereas substantial resources were committed to construction of mega dams across the country, there were no plans in place to ensure the last mile connectivity was achieved,” the committee said in its report. In the course of its inquiry, the committee visited Itare, Chemsusu, Northern Collector Tunnel, Karimenu II, Thakwe, Umaa and Mwache dams. The report put on the spot the Sh35.69 billion Itare dam project, touted to be a long-term solution to perennial water scarcity in Nakuru, Kuresoi, Molo, Njoro and Rongai. With less than 20 per cent done, the contractor- CMC Di Ravenna- filed for bankruptcy in Italy, citing the financial challenges it was going through. There are fears the government might lose Sh11 billion if it cancels the contract awarded to Italian firm. At the site, machines have been left to rust while abandoned construction materials and equipment lie haphazardly on the grounds. Wheels of earth movers and trucks are deflated. Bushes have sprouted with no one to check their spread. Water and Sanitation Cabinet Secretary Simon Chelugui is on record saying the Cabinet has the final say on the fate of the multibillion-shilling Itare dam, The Itare dam contract was awarded to CMC di Ravenna in 2018 for four years. The ministry has since instructed the Italian company to sub-contract the project in order to complete it, but no response has been forthcoming since March. Chelugui said CMC di Ravenna will nominate another Italian company to execute the remaining job, without altering the initial costs. The committee visited Itare Dam on March 22 and went to the workshop where repair and maintenance of equipment takes place, the asphalt plant where concrete preparation is done, the rocks crushing site and the dam site. The committee observed that a lot of mobilisation had taken place at the quarry with about 700, 000 cubic metres of material having being excavated. It further observed that the dam foundation had been laid with the spill way channeling the overflow having been done. The committee’s report said the treatment plant was lying on a 30-acre piece of land and the government had already compensated the land owners.