Kenyans youth in Small and Medium Enterprises (SME) will now have a greater chance of exporting products to Russia. They are also set to benefit from resources and technology aimed at boosting their capacity. This is after the Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry signed an agreement with the RosCongress Foundation of Russia. The deal was signed yesterday during the ongoing Russia-Africa Summit at Sochi resort city. The chamber’s president Richard Ngatia said the engagement will open up more opportunities for those in SMEs. “The subject matter of the agreement is cooperating between parties in arranging effective communications between communities and business political circles,” he said.  Trade PS  Chris Kiptoo was also present at the event. The Roscongress Foundation is a socially oriented non-financial development institution and a major organiser of international conventions, exhibitions, and public events. It also offers administrative services, provides promotional support for business projects and attracting investment, and helps foster social entrepreneurship and charitable initiatives. Ngatia explained that with the agreement between KNCCI and the foundation, the two countries will pool their efforts to develop mutually beneficial cooperation. “We hope that the agreement will enhance the trade relationship between the two countries,” he added. The Kenyan delegation in Sochi is being led by President Uhuru Kenyatta.  The Kenyans delegation is pursuing trade and investment partnerships especially in the Big 4 Agenda focus areas of health, affordable housing, food security and manufacturing. On Monday, Russia President Vladimir Putin said Moscow could offer help without strings attached unlike what is the case with the exploitative West. He asked African leaders and representatives of the business community to come up with solid package of proposals aimed at enhancing bilateral relations. “We will consider these initiatives with great interest and decide what could be launched right away and what will require further elaboration,” he said.