Opposition chief Raila Odinga on Tuesday afternoon met protesters at his Nyali house in an attempt to end the SGR-only haulage order. No agreement on ending the protests was reached. Raila urged dialogue and questioned the usefulness of the protests. He said he would convey the protester' positions to President Uhuru Kenyatta and Transport CS James Macharia. The government said it has verbally withdrawn the directive twice. But protesters, including truckers, traders, transporters, CFS workers and civil society, say they still can't access the Port of Mombasa. They want the SGR-only haulage mandate — intended to support the loss-making SGR — officially rescinded through a Gazette notice. It requires SGR to be used for virtually all cargo from Mombasa port, which will be cleared at the inland depot, no longer the port. Raila called the leaders and organisers of the protests including officials of Muhuri, Haki Africa, Fast Action Business Community and Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir to seek an amicable solution. For six weeks protesters have been demonstrating every Monday. They say SGR should compete with trucks to haul imported cargo. SGR takes it to the inland depot near Nairobi for clearance. Truckers want it done at the port. The protests, largely peaceful, only turned chaotic once as police dispersed demonstrators with teargas and arrested at least 10 people who were released five hours later. Present at the meeting was a prominent Mombasa businessman, who is close to Raila and who has been forced to lay off 500 of his workers after the, was also present in Tuesday’s meeting. He did not want to be identified. “He said 100 of his trucks are idle because there is no work. That is why he had to lay them off. He said it pains him,” a source who attended the meeting told the Star. Raila, who chaired the meeting, said, “Maandamano ni ya nini? (What are the protests for?)” Observers said Raila's hands are tied by his handshake deal with President Kenyatta who launched the SGR flagship project. He cannot forcefully criticise the project or the haulage directive. The former premier defended the SGR and explained how the idea was conceived in the Grand Coalition government before the Jubilee government cancelled the tender when it took power. Raila, who has been working closely with President Uhuru since the March 9, 2018, handshake, explained the sustainability of the project. “What was agreed was that Raila will meet the President and Transport CS present our arguments and demands to them,” a source at the meeting told the Star. Raila will tell them that we ant importers allowed to nominate the CFS and mode of transport. “The SGR should market their services as truckers should market theirs and let the clients choose where they think they will be served best,” the source said. Nassir also raised the matter of shipping lines doing local jobs like clearing and forwarding and warehousing. It was agreed this should stop. Nassir wants the government to adhere to the Merchant Shipping Act and The Hague Rules of 1924 to be followed. The Hague Rules of 1924 is an international convention imposing minimum standards on marine commercial carriers. Among other things, they prohibit shipping lines from doing the work of local traders or agencies, such as clearing and forwarding. Those present at the meeting want the cargo to be transported via trucks to be cleared at Mombasa. This will revive the clearing and forwarding business that had collapsed after the SGR directive issued by the Kenya Ports Authority and the Kenya Revenue Authority. The directive effectively puts trucks and clearing and forwarding agencies out of business. However, the protesters said they will go on with the protests until the SGR directive is rescinded through a Gazette notice. Muhuri chair Khelef Khalifa told the Star the protests will go on."We will not stop the protests until they rescind the directive,” Khalifa said. Raila said he will be making a statement in Nairobi before meeting President Uhuru and CS Macharia over the issues raised. (Edited by V. Graham)