Ubantu & Afrosocial The Alchemist Bar is the place to be for all exciting music showcases and truly you cannot miss Lemon & Herb brought to you by Ubantu & Afrosocial. Lemon & Herb is a music production and DJ duo comprising of Skhumbuzo Radebe and Don Sithole whose sound combine South African rhythms with world club appealing tunes. The performance will be going down this Saturday. October 19 from 8pm till late. Also, performing at the showcase will be Cheek-O, Suraj, N.Kai, Dylan-S, Knord and Monroe Marcus. The Essence Of Time Exhibit Nedia Were and Jimmy Kitheka will open their exhibit “The Essence of Time” at the National Museum in Nairobi on October 19 from 2 pm to 5:30 pm. The showcase which will be held at the Creativity Gallery will be graced by performances from Black Prophets and Hisia. The exhibition runs until November 19. Disappearing Africa Alliance Francaise, Nairobi is at it again with an exciting photo exhibit by Teddy Mitchener which opened on October 15. The Washington DC native merges various media to recreate African masks on faces of models in an attempt to push the idea of preserving the cultural identity. He understands that there is a need to fight the cultural erosion in the modern world. The exhibition runs until October 27. Acoustic Hangout For all the reggae fans, enjoy an afternoon of reggae music at Youth Kenya in Donholm, Nairobi on Saturday 19. Performances will be by Nubian Flame, Kare and Maestro Mack and his band the Reggae Sindiket. The show kicks off from 2pm to 6 pm. Entry is free. Slavery Routes On Monday, October 21 and Tuesday, October 22 , Alliance Francaise, Nairobi will be screening the four-part documentary “Slavery Routes.” The documentary, co-directed by Daniel Cattier, Juan Gélas and Fanny Glissant, with historical advisor Catherine Coquery-Vidrovitch, Professor Emeritus at the University of Paris-Diderot, is a story of a world whose territories and own frontiers were built by the slave trade.The first two parts will be screened on Monday while the other two parts will be screened on Tuesday from 6 pm. Kenya Racing Festival at Tatu City The hottest Party in town Kenya Racing Festival powered by Johnnie Walker will happen on Saturday 19th October 2019 at Tatu City. The event includes a Kenyan line-up of artistes such as Kansoul, DJ Joe Mfalme and DJ Tibz. Come and interact with the best motor sports enthusiast in the country.