Lack of funds has forced AFC Leopards to return to Nairobi and not camp in Western Kenya as they had envisioned following their weekend clash against Chemelil Sugar. Leopards had planned to stay remain in the camp in Mumias ahead of Saturday's duel with Sony Sugar but financial constraints forced them to return to their city base. “It was the best idea for us to remain in Mumias but due to money issues, it was impossible. We cannot keep players in camp for long yet we do not have the money to give them to meet their daily obligations. We will have to travel back to Awendo for the game against Sony,” said Leopards chairman Dan Shikanda. Like many clubs in the top flight, lngwe are going through lean times particularly after the departure of their sole sponsors Sportpesa. Shikanda revealed that the earliest they can get another partner on board is early next year. “It’s a delicate process to convince sponsors to put their money in the club but we have engaged several and we are in constant communication but the earliest a deal can come into fruition is between January and March next year,” he remarked. Leopards are on a good run after notching a second successive win with the 4-0 drubbing of Chemelil. Prior, they beat Wazito 1-0. However, they face a potential banana skin in the form of Sony, who lost 3-1 to Ulinzi Stars last weekend. Sony coach James Nandwa blamed poor officiating for the loss, pointing an accusing finger at match officials for their defeat at a rain-drenched Afraha Stadium. "The referee was a real let down, he spoilt what was a great match. We had thought we won a free-kick but he awarded it in favour of Ulinzi and from the set-piece, they scored and that changed the tide of the game," lamented Nandwa. With the Leopards encounter now two days away Nandwa was confident that they can get a result. "It's another tough game for us but am not overly concerned because of the way we have played in the last couple of games and if we stay true to our philosophy I am confident we will take three points," he said Sony have three points from four matches and are down in 15th place in the Kenyan Premier league table while Leopards are second with seven points.