A brace from record signing John Makwata helped AFC Leopards to a 2-1 win over Sofapaka in a Kenyan Premier League match at the Narok stadium. The result stretched Leopards unbeaten run to six matches to the joy of coach Casa Mbungo. "The players worked hard for the team. I am happy that despite training only nine times this month, we still managed to get a victory. When we get up to speed and with the determination of my players, it will be hard to beat us," he said. His Sofapaka counterpart Divaldo Alves cited a lack of concentration in his side's defeat as their main undoing. "We were not focused particularly in the first half and we conceded two easy goals. However, we reacted well in the second half when I told my players to wake up and they did that but it was not enough," rued Alves. Makwata’s first goal was a peach of a strike as he deftly juggled the ball around Faina Jacobs before rifling a left-footed shot past Richard Aimo in the 12th minute. The former Ulinzi Stars' striker showed his variety of goals by nodding in a cross from Dennis Shikayi midway through the first half to give Leopards a two-goal cushion going into the break. Substitute Ronald Okoth’s towering header with ten minutes left to play, set the game up for a grandstand finish but Leopards managed to hold onto their lead and take home the three points. Ingwe are now second with 14 points while Sofapaka remain 12th with seven. Earlier at the same venue, Wazito were held to a goalless draw by Posta Rangers in what was new coach Melis Medo’s first match in charge after being appointed on Thursday. Neither team created clear-cut chances, leaving both coaches happy to go home with a point each. “It was a good result against a team who were motivated and had a new approach with their new coach. I was pleased that we managed to keep another clean sheet and hopefully, we will get stronger and score more goals,” said Posta coach Sammy Omollo. Wazito assistant coach Hamisi Mohammed pointed to the team's improvement after the heavy loss prior to the fixture as signs of good things to come. “Getting a point after losing is obviously a good thing. We now have a new coach with a new philosophy, ideas and tactics and with time, we will build upon the point we earned,” he said. Posta are now 8th with 10 points with Wazito down in 13th with seven points.