After the Holocaust in Germany, the world community prayed and wished we would never live to witness such a crime again. Unfortunately, now, President Donald Trump is responsible for yet another holocaust by selling arms to the Middle East, setting it on fire. The weapons sold to Saudi Arabia have created havoc in places such as Yemen where children’s hospitals have been bombed and the population starved by the blockage of ports obstructing medical needs and food. This amounts to a severe violation of human rights. Trump’s latest action to abandoning Kurdish people will go down in the history books as the biggest sell out of the nicest people on this earth. I can speak with authority as I have lived in Kurdish homes. Trumps’ letter to Turkish President Erdogan clearly shows these two dictators are in cohort with each other. Erdogan has always disliked the Kurdish people and Trump opened the door for Turkey to attack Kurdish fighters in Syria by withdrawing American forces in Syria. Isis could not have been defeated without dedicated Kurdish fighters. Mohinder Dhillon’s picture book which will be ready by Christmas 2019 will contain exclusive pictures of the Middle East amongst 300 pictures. Under Ayatollah Khomeini’s regime, the Kurdish People were persecuted in the worst way. They were not allowed to speak their language, wear their own traditional dresses or sing their folk songs. This was in 1984 and I lived with these people and risked my neck. The price for any journalist in the area was beheading. No sane person would take this risk. The stories of horrifying human rights violations played on my conscience and I felt I had to do my part. A full chapter is devoted to the persecution of Iranian Kurdish people in my autobiography “MY CAMERA, MY LIFE”. I also shot a film titled “KHOMEINI’S OTHER WAR”. Ironically, Iraq Kurdish people were also persecuted and sprayed with nerve gas. After the Holocaust, between 1948 and 1951, almost 700,000 Jews emigrated to Israel. World powers put their maximum effort to create a home ‘Israel’ for Hitler’s holocaust victims. Why not create a permanent homeland with permanent boundaries for the Kurdish who are spread over four countries (Iran, Iraq, Syria and Turkey)? I appeal to the level head leaders and countries to do the same to settle the Kurdish people.  