The Kisumu county health strike is over. Kisumu county and health workers unions have signed a return-to-work agreement on Tuesday, suspending the five-week strike that began on September 11. About 1,900 health workers walked off the job over salary arrears and remitted deductions. Nurses have been on strike since July. “A decision has been reached that the current strike be suspended and members advised to go back to work from Wednesday at 8am,” a union statement reads. It was agreed that the Finance and Health departments finalise remissions of pending statutory and loan deductions in the next one week. The county government committed to resolving all pending issues set out in the September 26 agreement with unions. During consultations with unions, county executives and healthcare partners it was determined that the county has met most of its obligations. No striker is to be victimised. The KNUN, KMPDU, KNUMLO, KUCO and UKCS suspended their strike and told members to return to work. The end of the strike is a relief to patients who have suffered in public health facilities as unions and the county government traded blame over the salary arrears and deductions. Those who could not afford treatment in private hospitals and clinics travelled to Kakamega, Vihiga, Kericho and Siaya counties. On Monday, the Star found only a few nurses attending to patients at the Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Teaching and Referral Hospital. There were no patients at Kisumu, Ahero, Pap Onditi, Kombewa and Muhoroni subcounty hospitals. Health workers told the Star on condition of anonymity that the situation is dire and the lives of patients in need of operations are at risk. “People are dying in these facilities. The county leadership has turned a blind eye,” one worker said. The KMPDU had said the health crisis will only end after Governo Anyang' Nyong’o's administration grants its demands. Its Nyanza branch chairman Kevin Osuri shad aid the county is yet to remit its 200 members' statutory deductions and loans to banks and Saccos. “We’ve made it clear to Nyong’o that we are not negotiating on the salary issue. It must be paid,” he said. The KNUN branch secretary Maurice  Oetu said on Monday, "We will only resume work after all our salaries and all deductions are remitted to banks." Health and Sanitation executive Judith Attyang’ said they have met all salary obligations. “All workers must report to their stations. Failure to do so will be treated as absconding duty and firmly dealt with in accordance with the law,” she said in a letter copied to all unions. An October 4 statement by the unions accused the county of not being committed to honouring their demands. "As at now, there is no money in the workers' accounts. We, therefore, advise workers to stay away from their workplaces until all salaries are paid.” The county government signed an agreement with the unions to have all the dues and accrued deductions for the past three months paid by October 4. County spokesperson Aloice Ager said on Tuesday, "All the dues have been paid. The workers should consult their banks." KMPDU Kisumu secretary general Lameck Omweri had said they had not been paid for four months and told members to keep away from public hospitals. Omweri, in a letter to Nyong’o, called the September 26 return-to-work agreement and "alien document". "We were treated to yet another comical and regrettable return-to-work formula that the county government of Kisumu signed with itself on September 26. That is an alien document to KMPDU,” he said. Last week, the Finance executive said the county has paid salaries and asked health workers who have been on strike to resume duty. Kisumu spends Sh300 million monthly on staff salaries. (Edited by V. Graham) 