Nairobi assembly majority leader Abdi Hassan Guyo has recorded a statement claiming there was a plot to kill him. The clash at the assembly on Wednesday last week is now the subject of a more serious investigation — beyond the physical violence and property damage. Guyo told reporters that he had obtained an audio clip of a conversation between two city politicians that, he said, reveals how the chaos at the assembly was planned and contained plans to assassinate him. While playing the audio to the media yesterday outside the DCI headquarters, Guyo said that the audio exposes how the whole fracas was planned. It was not possible to independently confirm the authenticity of the audio. "I’m here to record a statement with the head of DCI, George Kinoti, because   I know he is just and will act without being compromised," he said. In the audio, one man is heard telling another that they have been looking for Guyo's car since last week, but have not found it. Photos of Guyo's car had been  taken for easy identification, a man is heard saying. In a letter dated  October 4, Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko called for the removal of  Guyo as the Majority leader, replacing him with Maringo MCA Mark Ndung’u. He led the MCAs supporting the return of Beatrice Elachi as Speaker. Sonko had accused Guyo of undermining his administration, making it difficult for the county to implement the Jubilee Party’s manifesto. “Consequently, I am forwarding to you the name of Mark Ndung’u as the new Majority leader-designate. Kindly effect appropriately,” Sonko said the letter addressed to  Elachi and copied to Jubilee secretary general Raphael Tuju. Elachi had been impeached by MCAs but was reinstated by court order. She had not returned to her office until last Wednesday. When contacted by the Star last week, Tuju said he had not received any letter from Sonko requesting him to change the Majority leader. "As of now I will treat it as a rumour because I have only seen it circulating on social media," Tuju said. Tuju did not respond to phone calls from the Star on Monday. After the fracas last week when Elachi unexpectedly returned, Guyo said he has received numerous text messages from unknown people telling him to leave Sonko alone. "Where I was born, I was taught not to fear anything or anyone and I will stand firmly and conduct my mandate as per the law," he said. Explaining further, Guyo said the thugs who were at the assembly last Wednesday were the same who had attacked, Timothy Muriuki, former chairman of the Nairobi Central Business District Association last year at Boulevard. "If you look at the videos last week in the assembly, the same goons who attacked Muriuki were the same ones chanting 'Guyo must go,' so what does that say?’ he asked. The Majority leader softened his tone towards Elachi and said he had nothing against her but she should know her mandate as the Speaker. "I have not met with Speaker Elachi but when we meet we shall know the way forward. I have no problem with the former Senator but she should change her style of management and not to encroach in MCAs mandate,’ he said. On his relationship with Sonko, which is deteriorating, Guyo claimed that the governor, his long-term friend, is being misled by external forces. (Edited by V. Graham)