Kisumu Governor Anyang' Nyong’o has been urged to expedite implementation of projects he pledged to residents during the 2017 poll campaigns. Former Roads executive Vincent Kodera yesterday said Nyong’o has yet to fulfil most of the projects he promised two years down the line. He said residents yearn for development that can create businesses and jobs for thousands of unemployed youths. Kodera served under Nyong’o’s predecessor Jack Ranguma. "We’re only interested in developments that better our lives and not sideshows or public gimmicks," he said. Kodera acknowledged the ongoing implementation of the Sh4.5 Kisumu Urban Projects (KUP) under the French government grant. He urged Nyong’o to ensure transparency and accountability. The county chief should take action against all corrupt county staff, he said. "We want him not to hesitate to sack those who are derailing services and development through corruption." Kodera, who seeks to unseat Nyakach MP Aduma Owuor in the 2022 election, said residents want competent leaders to ensure value for money. "We are not feeling or seeing any tangible developments or services," he said. The seasoned politician told Nyong’o to stop taking credit for donor-funded projects and show residents those he has implemented with billions received from the national government. Most of the projects the county government is taking credit for are under KUP and the rehabilitation of the Sh3 billion Kisumu Port, he said. Kodera said the KUP was an initiative of ODM leader Raila Odinga and former Kisumu Mayor Sam Okelo through the support of the national government. On several occasions, however, Nyong’o has defended his track record. His administration has allocated Sh600 million for roads upgrade this financial year. It has also relocated the Kachok dumpsite for Sh300 million. The garbage had been an eyesore for years. The county boss says he is also committed to transforming the health sector. This includes setting up additional facilities and modernising and equipping existing hospitals such as Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Teaching and Referral Hospital, among other measures taken to support universal health coverage. The county administration has also commissioned modern theatres at Kombewa, Ahero, and Muhoroni subcounty hospitals, with one for Pap-Onditi in Nyakach under construction to handle primary healthcare and referrals. The county has also put in place a modern ambulatory system for referral cases in seven subcounties. It acquired nine state-of-the-art ambulances worth Sh75 million. One was donated by the Kenya National Highways Authority. (Edited by F'Orieny)