Former lawmakers have crowded the list of hopefuls battling for the Parliamentary Service Commission’s slot at the Salaries and Remuneration Commission. The ex-legislators, the majority who served in the eleventh Parliament, on Monday pledged to the PSC panel chaired by the National Speaker Justin Muturi they will improve MPs' perks to reflect their demanding work. PSC is seeking a representative to replace former senator Halima Abdille who was rejected by the House. The nominee will represent the PSC at the Lyn Mengich-led SRC. On Monday, the PSC interviewed six nominees who had expressed interest in the plum position. Among the hopefuls are former MPs Amina Abdalla (nominated senator), Abdiraham Ali Hassan (Wajir senator), Andrew Toboso (Butere), Issac Melly (Uasin Gishu senator), Racheal Ameso (Kakamega Woman Representative)and  Michael Onyura (Butula) The former lawmakers apart from promising improved welfare for MPs also pledged to create understanding between the two key institutions. They also hit at the SRC for discriminating against MPs in job evaluation and salaries reviews, promising to rectify the situation if considered. “I have lived the life of an MP. That position (PSC nominee) can only be held by a person who has lived that life and I have been there so I understand the plight of MPs,” Abdalla told the interviewing panel. “There has been so much negativity created outside there about Parliament. This is what I’m seeking to change among fellow SRC commissioners if given this job,” Hassan added. Toboso said the SRC must change its perceptions when dealing with the legislative wing of the government, saying clumping it together along other arms and treating them the same way is unfair. “One of the challenges of the current SRC is that we are considering all the public sector as an homogeneous entity. In this arrangement, one arm that is being discriminated against is the Legislature,” Toboso said. Melly told PSC if considered for the position, he will change the perception at SRC that MPs are always seeking to earn more perks at any available opportunity. He underscored the need for dialogue to solve most of the problems between the commission and other institutions as opposed to going to court.