A two-decade land dispute almost turned fatal after an elderly couple was slashed with pangas at Cuma village in Engineer, Kinangop. Duncan Waruingi, 68, and his wife Racheal Njeri, 55, were attacked by Waruingi’s elder brother George Mwangi, his wife Gladys Wanjugu and son, Kagiri Mwangi, on Wednesday last week. Njeri is currently admitted at Kinangop Mission Hospital where she has been undergoing treatment. Speaking from her hospital bed on Monday afternoon, Njeri said the assailants attacked her in the morning with pangas, metal bars, and a big stick. They arrived at their compound at 6am and she went out to meet them without suspecting anything. They pounced on Njeri, accusing her of pushing her husband to persist in pursuing the land dispute which is at a Naivasha court. “They cut me twice in the head, face, and legs. I screamed for help and my husband came to my rescue. They turned on him too,” she said The assailants, she said, took her husband captive and dragged him to their compound where they wanted to kill and frame him as the attacker. “It is by the grace of God that neighbours who came to answer to our distress call arrived in time. We were bleeding profusely. They cleaned us, gave us first aid and rushed us to Engineer hospital,” she said. From Engineer County Hospital she was referred to Kinangop mission hospital as her condition was critical. Her husband, who lost a tooth and sustained a head injury was treated and discharged. Nyandarua South subcounty police commander Charity Dorcas yesterday told the Star that Mwangi, his wife, and son were arrested and arraigned on Monday. They were released on Sh40,000 cash bail each or Sh100,000 cash bond with a surety of a similar amount. She confirmed that the land dispute has been pending at Naivasha court. “We took them to court and they are out on bond. They also have another case in Naivasha about land subdivision,” she said. Waruingi said they were attacked because his brother wants to take all the land that was left behind by their parents. He said the land measures 28 acres, but at unknown dates, Mwangi transferred the whole land to himself after which he gave his four brothers two acres each. Two sisters were given half-acre each while two were denied. Mwangi gave himself nine acres while the rest of the land was left for their mother who has since died. Waruingi said Mwangi later sold the nine acres he had taken and even sold the section where their parents are buried. He wants to retain the piece in their mother's name, which he intends to sell too, but his siblings contend all the land should be consolidated and shared equally. (edited by O. Owino)