Public prosecutors have been urged to execute their duties with integrity and serve citizens diligently. Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji told officers to exercise transparency, accountability, and respect for human rights. Haji said regional officers should facilitate efficient and effective discharge of the ODPP mandate and enhance inter-agency collaboration. The prosecutors are also required to promote public confidence in the service delivery of the ODPP across the country. “These values are sacred to ODPP and must be adhered to by all,” Haji said yesterday during the launch of the Nyanza regional office in Kisumu. He also unveiled a model Kisumu office equipped with a pre-trial conference room, central intake registry, resource centre and a nursing room among others. “The model office will eventually be replicated across the country to ensure effective delivery of services,” the DPP said. He asked regional officers to facilitate closer interaction with the citizens so as to enhance timely access to justice. Haji said the ODPP reviewed its organisational structure and established nine regional offices in Nairobi, Coast, South Rift, Central, Upper Eastern, Lower Eastern, North Rift, Western and Nyanza in line with strategies adopted in the delivery of its services. He said the objective of the regional offices is to enhance efficient and effective coordination of service delivery to the citizens “The establishment of these offices is key to the achievement of the decentralisation of services, to wananchi as envisioned in the Constitution of Kenya, 2010,” he said. He noted that regional offices are headed by seasoned prosecutors who must ensure that the strategies adopted by the ODPP and the policies developed are fully implemented. “This will, in turn, ensure consistency and quality service delivery to the citizens across the country be it in Nairobi or Turkana the services should and must be the same,” Haji said. He added, “As we are all aware, inter-agency cooperation is key in fighting emerging complex crimes. I have, therefore, mandated the regional officers to create synergies with all the criminal justice actors.” Haji said he will go on a fact-finding tour of the ODPP offices in Homa Bay, Migori, Kisii and Nyamira counties, to ensure that wananchi receive quality services. “Be instrumental in the collection and analysis of case data from the county offices which is vital in the development of a criminal management system,” he said. Haji noted that data collected will aid in crime mapping and enable the ODPP to undertake responsive interventions based on the statistical data and research. He added that data will also be instrumental in identifying future crimes and to develop proactive mechanisms to handle such crimes. “We recognise the critical role of the citizens and we strive to ensure that justice is not only done but is seen to be done by incorporating their feedback and responses in the policy development,” Haji said. He also held a community dialogue which is one of the strategies adopted by the ODPP, in the discharge of its mandate in Manyatta and Obunga areas of Kisumu. 