Real Sociedad went level on points with La Liga leaders Barcelona after riding their luck to snatch a 1-0 win at Celta Vigo on Sunday, continuing their superb start to the campaign. Sweden international Alexander Isak came off the bench to decide the match with nine minutes remaining, meeting a pass from Martin Odegaard with his back to goal and freeing himself from two defenders to score. Celta forward Santi Mina missed two clear chances to give his side the lead before halftime and the match began to slip from the hosts after Pape Cheikh was sent off for a second yellow card midway through the second half. The win takes Sociedad second with Barca on 19 points after 10 games although the Catalans have a game in hand after the ‘Clasico’ against Real Madrid, originally scheduled for Saturday, was postponed until December due to security concerns. Atletico Madrid, who also have 19 points, are third after beating Athletic Bilbao 2-0 on Saturday. Atletico’s victory helped ease tensions at the Wanda Metropolitano after fans booed the team and especially midfielder Koke in the midweek 1-0 win over Bayer Leverkusen in the Champions League. “Today the fans were on our side and that makes you much more up for the game from the start,” Saul told reporters. “We always go out looking to win and the three draws in a row (in la Liga) had left us with a bittersweet taste so it was vital that we won today.” Atletico were without their record 126 million euro ($139.58 million) signing Joao Felix due to an ankle injury and first-choice central defenders Jose Gimenez and Stefan Savic, while Diego Simeone left out Diego Costa in favour of Angel Correa. Argentine Correa has enjoyed little first team football this season and was making only his second start in the league but he played a decisive role in the victory by setting up both goals. He used strength and pace to burst into the box and roll the ball across for Saul to strike it into the net to break the deadlock against an Athletic side who before the game had the joint-best defensive record in the league along with Atletico. Correa then got down to the byline to send a low cross towards Morata, who only had to guide the ball into the net. The visitors had nearly taken the lead early in the game when defender Inigo Martinez glanced a header towards the top corner but Atletico goalkeeper Jan Oblak produced an outstanding leaping save to keep the effort out. Athletic then had a half-hearted appeal for a penalty waved away shortly after the opening goal when Iker Muniain appeared to be pushed to the ground by Saul.