Jubilee candidate McDonald Mariga has said he will elevate Kibra to prosperity by prioritising trade and infrastructure investments. Mariga on Friday went on a shopping spree at Othaya market, Kibra accompanied by his supporters. He later unveiled an ambitious infrastructure and trade plan in a move to woo voters ahead of the November 7 by-election. The by-election was occasioned by the death of the late Kibra MP Ken Okoth who succumbed to Colorectal cancer in July. In a 14-point manifesto, Mariga promised street lights, business funds, free education, care centres among other pledges for residents. "Ntaincrease ma development centres za watoi...(I will increase development centres for children)," he said. He said he will create a Kibra Ujenzi council with membership from every ward to prioritise citizen-led infrastructure investment. "I will invite The National Treasury to pilot the SME fund in Kibra," he said. The former Harambee Stars international pledged to lobby the Kenya Chamber of Commerce adding that he will liaise with the national government to set up a trading fund to boost growth. The Kibra markets he said will be rehabilitated in his partnership with the county government and products will be packaged by the National products. Mariga vowed to design, set up and start the first and largest open-air tailoring centre in the region in Kibra. "The idea will be to create the first and largest open-air tailoring centre in the region that employs Kibra residents and target the new government policy for African attire for civil servants and also tender to stick uniforms for all Nairobi county staff," he said. On Security, the Jubilee candidate said he will increase street lighting in each ward as a way of extending the time for businesses too. Other plans he put across were to champion legislation in parliament which will make Kibra recognised as a marginalised constituency and therefore benefit from equalisation funds. "I will set up a one-stop centre for Kibra residents to get free business lessons, access the internet to encourage e-commerce and printers to assist parents who cannot afford the infrastructure required by the new school curriculum," he said. He pledged to establish a vulnerable children rescue centre and care centres and set up a Nyumba ya wazee to take care of the aged. He promised to secure affordable housing programme and audit the bridges connecting various villages in Kibra with a view of building new ones or rehabilitating them. Lastly, he said he will create an annual peer to peer Kibra business mentorship day, to assist small business to grow and enlarge available markets. On Monday, Mariga was accompanied by his mother Mildred Wanyama at Woodley grounds in Kibra as he embarked on his campaign trail. Dressed in a green floral Kitenge as she held onto a crutch, Mildred, listened keenly to her son as he unveiled his Sports and Education Manifesto. Mariga promised to form a technical bursary committee made up of parents and teachers in each ward to ensure transparent allocation of the bursary. He also disclosed that he would seek international scholarships to empower Kibra students. "We will introduce a Kibra CV bank. That will use technology to lobby for the job for our youth," he said. The former Harambee Stars international promised to upgrade a modern stadium at Woodley. "We will set up a soccer academy in Kibra and lobby for sports-based scholarships. We will upgrade existing playgrounds in Laini, Sarangombe and other to acceptable levels to host football, rugby," he said. He promised to set up a Kibra football club as well as teams in volleyball, darts, rugby, boxing and other sports with homegrown players to act as a platform of exposing local talents. Mariga said he was keen at ensuring the youth get as many opportunities in sports as he did.