Kipchoge made history by being the first man to run a 42km marathon in less than two hours. We need to emulate Kipchoge, not just as individuals but as a country. The perpetrators of corruption need to be prosecuted, fast. We need the culprits behind bars. Corrupt people derail economic development—we lose about a third of our budget to corruption annually. The youth graduating from universities are crying for lack of jobs. Kenya's youth unemployment rate is high. This was demonstrated during the recent 2019 Kenya Population and Housing Census, where the youth came out in great numbers to apply. The rate of job creation needs to be accelerated to accommodate young people. We need to support the informal sector. According to the Economic Survey 2018 by KNBS, the sector accounts for 83.4 percent of total employment. Sadly, those in the informal sector are harassed by the authorities. Currently, boda boda operators are not allowed into the Nairobi CBD thanks to a ban issued by Governor Mike Sonko. Those creative enough to rely on talents for survival need to be supported. Just recently the Music Copyright Society of Kenya paid royalties as low as Sh2,500 to top musicians. Upcoming musicians received a lesser amount. This caused an uproar. Such kind of exploitation needs to stop, fast. Once corruption has been fought and unemployment reduced, then we go to the next step. That is achieving the Big Four agenda: manufacturing, universal health coverage, food security and affordable housing. Kenya is capable of manufacturing many things, including its own cars and aeroplanes. We have Kenyans who have made an attempt to build cars and aeroplanes. A good example is Gabriel Nderitu, who tried to make an aeroplane. Although it did not take off, the likes of Gabriel should be given access to resources and soon we will have aeroplanes labelled ‘Made in Kenya’. This will steer manufacturing, a Big Four agenda, forward. Kipchoge believes ‘no human is limited’. Therefore, Kenyans are not limited as well. We need to achieve universal health coverage as fast as possible. According to research by KIPPRA, the number of Kenyans covered by NHIF, inclusive of dependents, is 27.2 million. The target is to have 70 per cent and above covered by 2022. Therefore, more needs to be done. We also need to make sure remote areas have hospitals. Mobile clinics can be introduced. Food security is another Big Four agenda. However, tea farmers are being exploited. This needs to stop, fast. Farmers are earning as low as Sh11-14 per kilo of tea leaves. This is far much below the expected Sh50 (at least) per kilo. More attention also needs to be given to irrigation schemes to maximise production. Once corruption is minimised, more people are employed through increased manufacturing, there is enough food and good healthcare then it will be easier to implement affordable housing. This is because Kenyans will be in the right shape to remit the payments involved in acquiring the houses. Kipchoge has proved to us that no human is limited. The same way he achieved his dream is the same way Kenya can achieve its dream, which is the Big Four agenda. This is by first fighting corruption and availing more employment opportunities. If a Kenyan has made it, then Kenya can also make it! Economist and founder of The Bizconomist Journal. frantzkih@gmail.com