A swarm of bees 'resembling a dark cloud' invaded a school in Lamu on Wednesday sending KCPE candidates and invigilators fleeing for dear life. The 102 candidates and their invigilators had just settled down for the Insha paper in the afternoon at Lamu Bin Fadhil Boys' Primary School when the swarm struck. A hive fell off one of the trees in the school, sending the bees swarming all over the compound and inside classrooms. Screams rent the air as candidates, invigilators and police officers ran for safety. Omar Anafolly, a private candidate, said the swarm resembled a dark cloud. “It was a really bad day and we really hope that won’t affect our performance. What I saw was strange. The swarm was so big, you could see what looked like a huge black cloud charging after pupils from one class to another and outside,” he said. Fifty were injured, five of them seriously. The incident happened at 2.10pm. It is not clear whether the hive fell off or someone knocked it off. “We had just started the Insha paper at around 2pm when out of nowhere, the entire classroom was filled with bees. The pupils were screaming from being stung and so were we," said an invigilator who declined to be named. "We ran out only to discover all the other classrooms had also been invaded by the bees. It was strange and scary but we are glad the exam got to proceed.” The invigilator said pupils who dashed from one classroom to another in an attempt to hide were injured the most as the bees kept charging after them. The injured were rushed to King Fahad Hospital in Lamu town where they were treated for stings before going back to finish the paper. The paper delayed for 20 minutes as the candidates were moved to the neighbouring Lamu Mahmoud Bin Fadhil Girls' Primary School. Many had swollen eyes, foreheads and limbs. The school has 102 KCPE candidates, including 12 private ones. Candidates asked to sit the remaining papers in a different centre for fear of another attack. County commissioner Irungu Macharia confirmed the incident but said only one pupil was seriously injured. “We are aware that a swarm of bees invaded the Lamu Mahmoud Bin Fadhil Boys' Primary School as candidates were doing their exam. One candidate was badly injured and taken to the King Fahad County Hospital for first-aid,” he said. "The rest sustained minor injuries. We’ve already made efforts to chase the bees away, so there is no cause for alarm." Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya