A section of Jubilee MPs allied to Deputy President William Ruto have said they would reject the Building Bridges Initiative report if its purpose is to create executive positions for a few individuals. Speaking at Sekenani in Narok West, Narok County, on Wednesday, the leaders noted that the report should prioritise the interests of the people as opposed to those of politicians. Belgut MP Nelson Koech said they would have no problem with the BBI report if its intentions are noble and of benefit to the people. However, he said they would not entertain a proposal whose sole purpose is to create executive positions for a few individuals. "We do not have a problem with BBI as it is just a report that would be presented to us. However, if it is about the creation of positions in the Government, we would reject it,” Koech said. Soy MP Caleb Kositany said Kenyans would thoroughly evaluate the report and take a position on its content. His sentiments were echoed Chuka Igembe Ngombe MP Patrick Munene who said Kenyans were waiting for the report to find out what is in for them. He said Kenyans would not support a report that has nothing for them. “If the report is tailored to benefit the people, we would support it; but if it is about creating additional political positions, we would reject it,” Munene said On her part, Narok woman rep  Soipan Tuya said it would be unfortunate if the BBI recommended changes that would only benefit politicians. She said no amount of intimidation would stop them from advocating for the interests of the people they represent. “If BBI is about selfish political interests, we would reject it,” Soipan said. The leaders' sentiments came on the same day that the BBI taskforce announced it had completed filing its report after collecting views of Kenyans across the country. The taskforce held its last formal sitting on Wednesday, at the Task-force secretariat where they finalised the report and communicated to the President's office. The taskforce said that they have already received word from the President's office that the handover will be scheduled at the first available opportunity. According to the taskforce, the views to be presented to the President takes into account the views of Kenyans from the 47 counties including testimonies and petitions from the professional bodies. Meanwhile,Ruto who was in Narok dismissed the critics of Jubilee administration projects, citing the recently launched Standard Gauge Railway to Suswa. Ruto said the Jubilee administration was committed to transforming the country through the implementation of various development projects. "There are people who do not understand our vision; their job is to oppose government projects. I urge you to ignore them,” he explained. The DP said the Jubilee administration would continue improving the country's infrastructure that would usher in the transformation of the country. “The creation of job opportunities, wealth creation and the elimination of poverty would always remain our core focus,” he said.