Nakuru West MP Samuel Arama has hit out at politicians opposing the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI). Speaking at Kaptembwa,Nakuru on Friday Arama asked legislators to patiently wait for the BBI report which he said has proposals geared to help the country. The vocal legislator said the BBI  will address issues of under-representation in the country,  political terrain and address the general problems facing the country. "We will not have individuals from certain few tribes dominating in power. The Implementation of BBI will curb the vice and address under-representation in the country, " Arama said. He said the initiative will also address the issues of ethnicity urging politicians to stop getting jittery over the initiative. "Those opposing will realise once the initiative is implemented, it will make the lives of Kenyans easier," said the legislature. The report he said will not only recommend a change in the structure of government but will also push for historical injustices to be addressed once and for all. The Building Bridges Initiative taskforce on Wednesday completed filing its report after collecting views of Kenyans across the country. The taskforce held its last formal sitting at the Task-force secretariat where they finalised the report and communicated to the President's office. "The joint Secretaries have officially communicated to the office of the President that the Building Bridges Initiative report is ready for handing over to the President," part of joint taskforce statement signed by BBI joint secretaries Paul Mwangi and Martin Kimani read. According to the taskforce, the views to be presented to the President takes into account the views of Kenyans from the 47 counties including testimonies and petitions from the professional bodies. The views were also collected from the constitutional commissions, civil society organisations, religious leaders and associations, business associations and business leaders. The taskforce was formed on March 9 last year after Uhuru and Raila shook hands with a view of ending hostility among Kenyans. The team of 14 members comprises of Adams Oloo who is the chairperson, Agnes Kavindu, Senator Amos Wako, Florence Omose, Saeed Mwanguni, James Matundura. Others are Major John Seii, Bishop Lawi Imathiu, Maison Leshomo, Senator Mohamed Yusuf Haji, Morompi ole Ronkai Prof., Bishop Peter Njenga, Rose