There is a hint of a change of guard as Harambee Stars coach Francis Kimanzi unveiled the final squad for the upcoming international friendly match against Mozambique. Up to nine players who were part of the team that represented Kenya in the  African Cup of Nations in Egypt in June have been omitted. Goalkeepers Patrick Matasi and John Oyemba, defenders Aboud Omar, Musa Mohammed, midfielders Johanna Omollo, Eric Johana, Ismail Gonzalez as well as forwards Ovella Ochieng, Ayub Timbe, Francis Kahata and John Avire are noticeably absent for the build-up match ahead of the start of the 2021 Afcon qualifiers against Egypt next month. In the absence of Matasi, who was the first choice shot-stopper in Egypt, coach Kimanzi has handed a recall to Zambia-based goalkeeper Ian Otieno with his Ulinzi Stars’ counterpart Timothy Odhiambo also getting the nod. Ian’s absence, in particular, left many scratching their heads considering prior to his move to Zambia’s Red Arrows, he was a constant feature in the national team set up following the retirement of Arnold Origi. Masoud Juma, Haroun Shakava and Yusuf Mainge have also been recalled to the 23-man squad. Shakava returns to the national team fold after almost a year out. The former Gor Mahia skipper had fallen out with the national team selectors after ignoring former coach Sebastiene Migne’s call up for the Hero Intercontinental Cup in India last year. Meanwhile, Timbe has been omitted from the team after his club, Beijing Renhe, requested he stays behind for their important league assignment against Chongqing Lifan on the day of the friendly against Mozambique. Zesco United striker Jesse Were will get another chance to prove that he can cut it at the international stage as he will compete for a starting role against Japan-based chief goal-getter Michael Olunga. Promising Wazito defender John Omurwa and Tusker centre back Hillary Wandera are in line to earn their first senior cap after both were also included in the squad. Also angling for his first senior appearance is Bandari’s Abdalla Hassan who helped his team reach the last 32 of the Caf Confederation Cup at the expense of Tunisian side US Ben Guerdane. Others set for a first Stars’ game include Gor’s Lawrence Juma, former Mathare United youngster Cliff Nyakeya as well as former AFC Leopards defender Yusuf Mainge. The team is scheduled to hit camp on October 7 ahead of the friendly scheduled for October 13 at the MISC Kasarani. Full Squad: Goalkeepers: Ian Otieno (Red Arrow, Zambia), Timothy Odhiambo (Ulinzi Stars, Kenya), Faruk Shikalo (Yanga); Defenders: Johnstone Omurwa (Wazito), Harun Shakava (Nkana, Zambia), Joash Onyango (Gor), Yusuf Mainge (FK Pohronie, Slovakia), Hillary Wandera (Tusker), Erick Ouma (Vasalunds IF, Sweden), Joseph Okumu (IF Elfsborg, Sweden), Samuel Olwande (Sharks); Midfielders: Anthony Akumu (Zesco United, Zambia), Abdallah Hassan (Bandari), Kenneth Muguna (Gor), Duke Abuya (Sharks), Victor Wanyama (Spurs, England), Cliffton Miheso (Gor), Lawrence Juma (Gor), Cliff Nyakeya (FC Masr), Whyvone Isuza (AFC): Forwards: Michael Olunga (Kashiwa Reysol), Jesse Were (Zesco United), Masoud Juma (JS Kabylie, Algeria). 