The ongoing heavy rains will end in December, according to the Meteorological department. In the short-rains forecast, head of the Met department Stella Aura on Monday said the rains will be heaviest next month, then begin to taper in the second week of December across the country. In a five-day forecast, Aura said showers and thunderstorms will continue in Western Kenya, especially around Lake Victoria. “Rainfall is expected to continue over several parts of the country,” she said. Other areas likely to be pounded by downpours this week include highlands west of the Rift Valley, including Kakamega, Vihiga, Nandi, Elgeyo Marakwet, West Pokot, Trans Nzoia, Bungoma, Bomet, Uasin Gishu, Kisii, Kericho and Nyamira. The department said counties in Central Rift Valley such as Nakuru, Narok, Laikipia and Baringo will also receive heavy rainfall and thunderstorms. However, counties in the highlands east of the Rift Valley such as Nyeri, Murang’a, Embu, Meru, Tharaka Nithi, Kirinyaga, Kiambu, Nyandarua and Nairobi will only receive showers over few places. The rest of the country will receive showers in a few places, especially in the afternoon and at night. These areas include the Coastal strip, South Eastern, Machakos, Makueni and Taita Taveta, as well as the Northwestern part of the country, Western parts of Turkana, the Northern parts of Marsabit and Samburu. The advisory shows the rains in these places will reduce compared to last week when the department had warned of heavy rains. Other regions that will receive rains in a few places are Ukambani and Northeastern part of the country such as Wajir, Garissa and Mandera. “Strong southeasterly winds of more than 12.5 metres per second are expected over the Northwest and parts of the Northeast,” the department said. However, floodwaters may suddenly appear even in places where it has not rained and can be deeper and faster than they look. The department advised residents in such areas against diving through or walking in moving water in open fields. They are also urged not to shelter under trees or near grilled windows to minimise exposure to lightning strikes. “People in landslide-prone areas should be high alert,” the report said. Last month, the department accurately predicted the rains will begin in the second week of October in most places and end in December. “The distribution of rainfall in time and space is expected to be generally good over most places especially during October and the peak month of November,” she told the media on Monday at the Met headquarters in Nairobi. Edited by R.Wamochie