Treasury CS  Ukur Yatani has called on residents of the Upper Eastern Region at the Kenya-Ethiopia border to utilize the One Stop Border Point  in Moyale to boost trade between Kenya and Ethiopia. Yatani said the modern facility was underutilized urging residents to trade more volumes of goods across the border. “We should see more trade volumes passing through the OSBP at Moyale- an indication of a robust business activity between Kenya and Ethiopia. Unfortunately, we are not witnessing this. I wish to urge residents in this region to make use of this exemplary facility for their good and the good of both Kenya and Ethiopia,”Yatani said. He spoke on Saturday in a tour of the Moyale OSBP in Marsabit County. The CS Said the government was keen on working towards full implementation of an agreement on free trade earlier agreed between the two countries. He promised to establish more OSBPs at the Kenya-Ethiopia border to facilitate trade between the two countries and ensure high levels of tax compliance among the traders in the region. “There is a potential for additional revenue collection in this region hence, the government shall establish more OSBPs along the common border with Ethiopia to facilitate trade and ensure collection of more revenue,” he said. Chairman to the Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA) board Francis Muthaura who was in attendance said KRA was willing to play a key role in facilitating revenue collection and enhancing compliance. “KRA and the business community in this region need to work together for the betterment of the region and the country. KRA is therefore obliged to provide a conducive environment for business to thrive,”  Muthaura said. KRA Commisioner of Customs and border control Kevin Safari asked traders to make optimal use of the Moyale OSBP. “It is important for the business community and residents of this reason to appreciate that the OSBP is key in facilitating trade and ensuring safety of cargo movement at the border point. Movement of goods across the borders in undesignated crossing points amounts to smuggling,”Safari said. The CS,  was accompanied by KRA Board of Directors led by Chairman Ambassador Francis Muthaura, KRA Commissioners and Interior Ministry officials.