Good morning, At last, we heard it, the informer's confession that lawyers for the alleged killers tried and tried to suppress. Human right lawyer Willie Kimani was stuffed into the boot of a car alongside his client and taxi driver for more than three hours as his alleged killers debated whether to kill them. All were handcuffed from behind. The three, who were brutally murdered three years ago, could have been listening to them argue the merits of murder. Kimani, Josphat Mwenda and Joseph Muiruri had been driven inside the boot of Senior Sergeant Fredrick Leliman’s car to a nearby bush where they were to be executed. Here are the other stories making headlines in the Star this morning. The National Treasury plans to retire government's commercial loans to in a move to maintain the public debt and ensure it does not soar to higher levels. According to acting cabinet secretary Ukur Yatani, the government will now focus on multilateral loans with lower interest rates to finance capital expenditures, over the commercial loans with interest rates of between eight to nine per cent. The short-terms are contracted even sometimes for two year period compared to Eurobonds which could be at 15-years. How Mary Waithera, 67, ended up popping 17 pills a day is a cautionary tale on overprescription in Kenya. And her case is not the worst. In 2015, a year after she was diagnosed with high blood pressure, she moved from taking two pills to manage her condition to 10 pills every day. She also ballooned from about 75 to 90kg. The finance department is the backbone of the county government. But in Governor Mike Sonko's government, the docket is a hot seat. Since August 2017 when Sonko became the second governor of Nairobi, the department has had seven CECs, either substantive or in acting capacity. MPs want the National Cereals and Produce Board to make public the directors of companies which won the multimillion-shilling gunny bags tender. Public Accounts Committee chairman Opiyo Wandayi on Monday said the oversight team will get to the bottom of the matter that saw taxpayers spent Sh401 million in the procurement of the bags. “We shall go to the bottom of this matter even if it takes ages to solve this issue once and for all. This is a clear case of open rip off,” Wandayi, who is the Ugunja MP, said. You may think they're annoying, at the very least an eyesore and at the worst thieves and pickpockets who obstruct legitimate business. But the Senate says they have rights. In a big victory for hawkers countrywide, Senators have unanimously passed a bill designating vending zones and protecting vendors. It now goes to the National Assembly for approval before it is forwarded to President Uhuru Kenyatta for signing.