Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa and her bodyguard, Okuto Otieno, will spend the night in the cells awaiting arraignment on Thursday morning. The two are being held at the court police station. Jumwa and Otieno appeared before senior resident magistrate Vincent Adet on Wednesday but there was no charge sheet. The prosecution is seeking to have them detained for 21 days pending investigations. Adet will on Thursday make a decision on whether they will be held or detained. Jumwa was arrested alongside Otieno, her gardener and domestic worker after one person was shot dead on Tuesday. The man was shot dead during a fracas that erupted at the home of ODM candidate Reuben Katana in Ganda ward. Trouble allegedly started after Jumwa stormed the home to disrupt the meeting between Katana and ODM agents for the Thursday's by elections, saying the campaign period was over. "A people united will never be defeated. They will never break our resolve!" Jumwa tweeted on Wednesday morning. According to a police report, they received a tip from members of the public about what was to transpire in the area. "Upon reaching the said place , they found 500 people. The said place had tents pitched all over the compound and there were vehicles and motorcycles parked in the compound of Katana," it read. "And while they were in the process of arresting the organisers of the alleged meeting,  Jumwa arrived in a convoy of three vehicles accompanied by her aides and other unidentified people." The police said they alighted from their vehicles and Jumwa inquired as to what was happening there but the crowd became rowdy and violent. "They started pelting stones and crude weapons at her and her group. A scuffle ensued,the deputy subcounty police commander and his group intervened" the report read. Police said Jumwa's bodyguard started shooting in the air and in the process, the mob started shouting alleging that the bodyguard had shot a man. "...they became more rowdy and violent forcing the officers to fire in the air to disperse them," police said. The crowd continued to be riotous until the area MP and her group went away. "The injured person was taken to Malindi General Hospital where he was pronounced dead an arrival."