Following the conclusion of training and standardization of Karate yesterday at the Goan Gymkhana, Chief instructor Sensei Joshua Oude has revealed that the Kenyan federation will hold a one-day refresher training camp in  November to determine the progress. Japan Karate Association JKA Regional Director Sub-Sahara Africa Edward Mtshali, who hails from South Africa, spearheaded the four-day event, imparting knowledge and skills with the view to upgrade the sport in the country. Sensei trains at Strathmore University and has previously worked with Kenyatta University. He said all ages will be considered. The instructor alluded that in as much as he wanted the regional block event involving Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania to be held before the end of the year, lack of sponsorship is biting. He said:" We are going to hold a training camp next month to review if people have conformed to Edward Mtshali's knowledge and methods. Lack of funds due to unavailability of sponsorship is a stumbling block to the growth of the sport. Organising events becomes a problem." "The regional block assignment will be held next year in the country. We were optimistic of it being scheduled before the year ends but the absence of participants due to academic commitments makes it a tricky affair. We depend so much on well-wishers but I urge the government to step in so that prosperity can be witnessed. Donations from friends enabled us to pay for Mtshali's air ticket and accommodation."Sensei oozed confidence that a platform will be created for more training events with the possibility of it being held twice or thrice a year. To realise growth, more countries will be expected to join the block."Our participants wished for the training to be extended because they acquired much. Probably from next year if things go according to our plans, we can organise this event two times or quarterly. We want to return the standards back. Countries like Rwanda and Malawi have shown interest in joining the block and their inclusion will not only be welcome but also scale the sport a notch high."His words of advice were that everyone needs to embrace the game and benefit from the opportunities that arise having been a beneficiary himself. "My soft spot for the game has made me go places. I urge everybody to consider the game." Mtshali and Sensei travel to Mombasa today to train the locals.