Lugari MP Ayub Savula has accused Deputy President William Ruto of playing politics with the economy of Western. Savula said the announcement by the DP on Friday that the state was ready to offload its 20 per cent shareholding in the struggling Mumias Sugar Company to the county government amounted to mischief. “The county government has been demanding these shares so it could gain access to the board of management to make decisions and start restructuring the miller but the National Treasury declined. Why hand over the shares when they cannot help in its revival?” he said. The legislator said the DP should have pushed for a rescue plan similar to the one used to stabilise Kenya Airways where banks converted their loans into equity. “When the people of Western cried that the company was ailing, he was busy donating millions to schools for political reasons. How do you give the county shares without money? It’s too late that the company is under receivership,” he said. While launching the Wanga Technical Institute in Mumias East on Friday, Ruto said the national government was ready to relinquish its shares in the miller to the county government of Kakamega after it presented a revival plan. He said that the county government together with other stakeholders should borrow a leaf from privately owned West Kenya and Butali sugar factories which are performing well. Yesterday, Savula said that Luhya MPs following the DP for handouts at the expense of the people will all be sent packing come 2022. Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala said the DP should ensure all debts owed by the company are written off before surrendering the shares. “Giving the county shares that have debts is like transferring 20 per cent of Mumias loans to the county government. We are asking our brothers from Western who joined Jubilee at the instigation of the DP on the grounds they wanted the region to access development to tell us what the region has benefited from the Jubilee administration,” he said. Malala said Luhya leaders will not allow the DP to continue playing with the minds of the community for political reasons.