Wajir leaders have reacted angrily to remarks by Education CS George Magoha that the county and Garissa will have heightened surveillance to curb exam cheating. They said that through his utterances and actions, Magoha has over time showed his ‘dislike’ for the children from the region. Governor Mohamed Abdi, Senator Abdullahi Ali and Wajir East MP Rashid Kassim spoke on Monday in Wajir town. While launching the KCSE and KCPE examinations period on October 15, the CS listed Wajir, Mandera, Garissa and Migori as counties under high surveillance. Magoha said that there were cartels already out collecting money from unsuspecting parents and children in the pretext of leaking exam papers to them. “I am asking the leaders of Northeastern, that is Wajir, Mandera and Garissa, please kindly allow our children to do their exams without interference, and I can guarantee that you will get better results,” Magogha said. But Governor Abdi called on the Education CS to go and record a statement with the  Criminal Investigations Department so that they can begin a probe. “It is unfortunate that a CS who heads such a crucial docket has resorted to making alarming statements that have far-reaching effects on our children. Does it mean he has a personal dislike for children from this region?” Abdi asked. He said Wajir leaders are angry with the CS and want their message to reach the President so he that he can act on the CS's remarks. “How can he start condemning our children even before they sit for the exam?” he asked. He said the comments are likely to lead to examiners and the markers having the impression that candidates from Northeastern are exam cheats hence hundreds of cancelled results like was witnessed last year. Senator Ali said that leaders from the region will soon meet to declare a common stance on the matter. He said the leaders will not sit down and watch as a few individuals conspire to ruin the lives of thousands of children from the region. “If push comes to shove we are willing to rally candidates from our region to completely boycott the national examinations. It makes no sense for them to sit an exam where you are already seen as a cheat,” he said. Kassim said that it was unfortunate Magoha had resorted to running the ministry with an iron fist, giving no room for dialogue. He urged the President to correct the situation ‘before it is too late’. “Why is it that his speeches are full of intimidation, threats and chest-thumping? He should wake up to the reality that this is independent Kenya,” he said. Kassim said residents of Northern Kenya also have their rights enshrined in the Constitution. A senior education official based at the headquarters who spoke to the Star on condition of anonymity because he is not allowed to speak to the media said that the CS’s statement ‘was taken of context’. “The CS did not say that the  region intends to cheat in anyway. All he mentioned were the counties where there is suspicion based on the intelligence provided to us,” the official said. Last year, the Kenya National Examination Council cancelled the results of 3,427 candidates countrywide over exam irregularities. The majority of the students were from Mandera, Wajir and Garissa counties. According to Knec boss Mercy Karogo there are 1,388,987 and 699,746 candidates registered for KCPE and KCSE, respectively. KCSE begins this week’s with orals and practicals, while KCPE will start on October 29. (edited by O. Owino)