 With previous orders to surrender guns and forceful disarmament of bandits and cattle rustlers bearing little fruit, the government has adopted a new strategy to recover illegal firearms in the Kerio Valley. An estimated 8,000 guns are suspected to be in the hands of bandits and rustlers in the region. However, both forceful and voluntary disarmament programmes have managed to recover not more than 1,000 guns. Rift Valley regional commissioner George Natembeya is making yet another push to disarm communities in a bid to end cattle rustling and banditry attacks. “The number of guns recovered or targeted to be collected does not matter because even one single illegal gun in the wrong hand is too dangerous and must be returned or forcefully taken by security forces,” Natembeya told the Star. He said chiefs have been asked to ensure there are no illegal guns in their areas and that banditry is completely eradicated. “Chiefs are very influential and well-connected people in their areas. They have details like who gets pregnant in all villages and there is no way they can claim not to know who owns guns in their areas,” Natembeya said. In the new approach, the government has lobbied leaders at all levels, including village elders, to back the disarmament drive by encouraging their communities to surrender illegal guns. “We are asking our people to support government efforts to ensure we have security in the Kerio Valley. Those with illegal guns should surrender them to the police,” Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos said. Tolgos has conducted many public barazas in Kerio Valley urging residents hand over guns to the government. Natembeya said voluntary surrendering of guns has been successful in some areas like Turkana where many residents have turned up to hand over their firearms to police. The drive was launched last year but not many people have surrendered their guns for listing in other parts of the North Rift. The region comprises Elgeyo Marakwet, Turkana, West Pokot, Baringo and Samburu counties. It is predominantly inhabited by nomadic communities that have for many years carried out banditry as a cultural practice especially for youth who are required to steal livestock before being allowed to marry. Tolgos said the practice became a daily occurrence like a sport and hobby with youths betting on who would steal the highest number of animals. “In the process, thousands of our people have lost their lives over the decades with illegal guns used during the raids. Since last year, an estimated 200 people have been killed here (Kerio Valley) in bandit attacks," the governor said. Most of those killed are women and children. Tolgos said the insecurity has caused more than 100 county projects to stalled. Professionals like teachers and doctors have also refused to work in the region due to safety concerns. However, some leaders say the disarmament programmes have not been successful because the government failed to ensure adequate and effective security for residents. They have blamed marginalisation and poor infrastructure for the failure. The also accused the government of weak policies for National Police Reservists (NPRs) who have for many years been supplementing state security measures in the region. “Residents have for many years felt unsafe before they opted for self arming to protect themselves because they cannot rely on the few police officers deployed in the region. This must be changed with the government providing safety for residents so that they see no need to arm themselves,” chairman of the NGOs Council Stephen Cheboi said. The influx of guns has been blamed on porous borders with communities in neighbouring countries of Ethiopia, Uganda and Somalia also nomadic. Kerio Valley residents want the government to strengthen the NPRs system before disarming communities. “We are already in the process of having well-trained and managed national police reservists to help enforce security measures,” Natembeya said. Unlike in the past when NPRs were haphazardly recruited and armed, Natembeya said those to be hired with be thoroughly vetted and trained. They will also live in camps under a proper command to ensure they work professionally. The NPRs will be given uniforms and allowances to avoid cases where some turned rogue and misused guns for their survival, the administrator said. Tolgos and his West Pokot counterpart John Lonyangapuo have signed a peace accord to ensure residents co-exist harmoniously. They plan to hold joint peace meetings urging residents to surrender illegal guns so development projects can resume.  There have been less cases of banditry since the signing of the peace accord three months ago. Elgeyo Marakwet Deputy Governor Wisley Kiptoo says opening up areas like Tiaty, education and proper infrastructure will also help youth find other means to earn a living. Natembeya hopes the new measures will ensure all illegal guns are recovered and the Kerio Valley, usually referred to as the valley of death will be turned into the valley of peace and civilisation.  edited by peter obuya