Embu county commissioner Abdullahi Galgalo has called for a probe on local security officers secretly engaged in boda boda business. The security officials allegedly violate traffic regulations and engage in other crimes. Galgalo spoke on Monday at Embu Talent Academy during the training of boda boda riders on better financial management. The training was funded by the county government in partnership with Winas Sacco. The administrator said riders informed him that some security officers, especially from the Prisons department, operate boda bodas at night and steal from customers. They also commit other crimes. “I know people sometimes face financial constraints but this cannot be condoned. Something should be done to end it.” Galgalo urged boda boda operators to obey traffic rules and avoid crimes like drug trafficking. They should also stop helping thieves and robbers to escape. The meeting was attended by Manyatta legislator John Muchiri, Deputy Governor David Kariuki, county police commander Daniel Runkunga, Winas Sacco CEO Pauline Mwaniki and chairman Robert Kithanju among others. Boda operators complained of harassment and blame by 'outsiders with motorbikes'. Embu Boda Boda Sacco chairman Paul Maina, said operators from the neighbouring counties also come to Embu and commit crimes before disappearing. They said they have organised themselves so well that they know where each of them operates from and when their colleagues violate the law. They discipline their colleagues who ride while drunk, traffic in drugs or carry more than one passenger. Trade executive Jamleck Muturi said the training was necessitated by a survey that showed many of the more than 7,000 operators in the county don’t bank their money but hide it in their houses. Muturi said they found it necessary to partner with the financial institution in training the riders to cultivate a banking culture to attract loans, interest on their savings and also benefit from other profits. Edited by R.Wamochie