Peter Karanja, who was early this month accused of killing Nairobi businessman Tob Cohen, was yesterday released on Sh2 million bail. Alternately, Justice Daniel Ogembo granted him Sh4 million bond with two sureties of similar amount after finding no compelling reasons to deny him bail. Karanja is accused of killing Cohen jointly with others on the night of July 19 and 20. The prosecution cited the nature of the charge and the seriousness of the offence as the compelling reasons why the businessman should not be granted bail. The state argued that the murder charge was serious but the judge ruled that it was also not a compelling reason for denial of bail. The prosecution further argued that Karanja was likely to interfere with witnesses as he was a frequent visitor to the Cohen residence. Judge Ogembo said he was not provided with evidence that the accused had contacted witnesses. The prosecution had also said Karanja did not have a home to go to if he was freed, but the court noted that a probation report before it showed that he has two homes, one in Gilgil and the other in Gema. However, the judge noted there are ownership issues regarding the Gilgil home. His Gema rural home is not contested. The court's view was that the prosecution had not shown that Karanja was a flight risk if freed. Judge Ogembo allowed the bail application but ordered the accused not to contact witnesses. Karanja should also not go anywhere near Cohen's home as it is a crime scene. On Friday last week, Martha Wangari, Karanja’s estranged wife, was in court contesting the probation report that listed the Gilgil home as one of his homes. Wangari, who is the Gilgil MP,  wanted to be enjoined in the matter but the court declined and told her that she was not a party to the case. Judge Ogembo ruled that the MP could not be an interested party in a criminal case. Karamja's co accused Sarah Wairimu, Cohen's widow, was earlier released on bail. Both cases will be mentioned on November 12 for consolidation. Wairimu's lawyer Philip Murgor has opposed the consolidation of the cases. The state insists that the cases have to be consolidated because the particulars of the offences are the same. 