Heavy rains continue to wreak havoc, leaving more than 10 people dead and 1,000 others displaced across the country. The weatherman has said the rains will continue over several parts of the country, and it is likely to be high over parts of the Northeast, the Highlands East and West of the Rift Valley, the Southeast Lowlands, Northwest and the Coast. According to the five-day forecast, areas likely to be pounded by heavy rains until Wednesday include Marsabit, Mandera, Wajir, Garissa, Isiolo, Nairobi, Nyandarua, Laikipia, Nyeri, Kirinyaga, Murang'a, Kiambu, Meru, Embu, Tharaka Nithi, Turkana, West Pokot and Samburu Counties. Others are Kitui, Makueni, Machakos, Kajiado, Taita Taveta as well the coastal strip counties of Mombasa, Tana River, Kilifi, Lamu and Kwale. Stella Aura, the director of Kenya Meteorological department, said strong winds of more than 25 knots (12.5m/s) are expected over the Northwest and some parts of the Northeast. Aura has warned residents in landslide-prone areas to be on the high alert and to move to safe grounds. In Marsabit, several homes were destroyed, leaving about 1, 000 people and 200 households displaced. In Baringo, leaders warned residents living in lower areas to move to higher grounds to avert deaths due to floods and landslides. Governor Stanley Kiptis urged residents living in the flat and hilly sides of Baringo South, Mogotio, Baringo North, Tiaty, Baringo Central and Eldama-Ravine subcounties to take precautions. Other areas that suffer perennial floods and landslides are Sintaan, Ng’ambo in Marigat bordering Lake Baringo, and Kabasis, Salawa, Tenges and Timoboiwo in Baringo Central. “I want to urge my people to be watchful and tell others we are not ready to lose anybody because we heard the rain may continue until December,” Kiptis said. In April last year, six people, among them children, drowned after they were swept away by the raging floods. Hundreds of people were displaced, farms buried with soils, bridges wrecked and several schools closed in parts of Baringo South. Residents fear the ongoing rains might interfere with their children's preparation for the national exams. “We have put in place measures so nothing, including the floods or insecurity, shall derail our children from sitting their final exams, so there should be no cause for alarm,” the county chief sought to assure them. He appealed to the individuals owning vehicles in good working conditions to willingly surrender them to help in easing transportation of examination papers across the muddy areas. In Busia, county commissioner Jacob Narengo urged residents who live along riverbanks to relocate to higher grounds to avert more deaths. Narengo said downpours are becoming more dangerous and disastrous and called upon the disaster management committee to be active and ensure no family lives along riverbanks. He spoke during Mashujaa Day celebrations at Kolanya Primary School in Teso. The administrator regretted that heavy rains that have been pounding some parts of the country have wreaked havoc after Machakus Bridge, which links Busia and Malaba towns, was submerged under raging waters, forcing motorists plying the busy Malaba-Busia route to use alternative roads. More than 400 families in Teso North and South in Busia county have called for immediate aid after their homes and crops were swept by raging floodwaters over the past two weeks. This was after rivers Malakisi and Ang’olol broke their banks and overflew into the homesteads and farms. Their animals were not spared. Regions that have been hard hit by flash floods are Akiriamasit, Amoni, Onyunyur, Kamolo and Buria villages. Teachers had to close schools. Pupils are expected back in class next week. In Mandera, the heavy rains have caused Sh2 billion losses. Governor Ali Roba said there have been livestock deaths, and dams, pans, properties, roads infrastructure and underground tanks have been ruined. He was, however, quick to add that the devastations caused by heavy rains have been "nowhere near the destruction caused by drought”. Roba spoke in Moi Stadium, Mandera town, during Mashujaa Day celebrations. “While we may not be able to correct all of the above to its original position, certainly we will respond to mitigate the impacts and reduce the severity of its negative impacts on human beings,” he said. Roba appealed to partners and donor organisations to support them in tackling the challenges. He also urged residents to harvest rainwater. In Wajir, leaders raised the alarm after one person and at least 900 animals died from heavy rains. They appealed to the departments of veterinary services and agriculture to respond swiftly and fix the problem. Some of the worst-hit areas include Wargadud in Tarbaj subcounty, Elnoor in Eldas subcounty and Gurar, Adadijole, Dinikhu and Bosicha in Wajir North. In Nyeri, county commissioner David Kipkemei called on people living in areas prone to landslides to move to safe areas. The administrator spoke in Mukurweini on Sunday. He advised those staying near big trees to be on the lookout for the dangers of trees falling and causing massive destruction. “Let us be so keen on all these so we don't lose lives and property,” he said. Mukurweini and Mathira are some of the areas known to record high cases of landslides in Nyeri. In the Coastal region, heavy floods were reported in Nyali, Kisauni, Kongowe, Kaa Chonjo and within parts of Mombasa CBD. Deaths due to flooding • Four family members were killed by a landslide in Turung village, Marakwet East, on October 17. • Four people died in Meru county on October 17 after they were swept away by flash floods. • One person was rescued and five others reported missing in Kitui county after the vehicle they were travelling in was swept away by floods on October 16, according to Red Cross. • One person and at least 900 animals died in Wajir.