Vihiga elders has brokered a truce between the top county leadership after months of disagreements that hampered effective service delivery. The elders led by former Makadara lawmaker Fred Omido on Thursday urged Governor Wilber Ottichilo and his deputy Patrick Saisi to work together for the people. The county leadership has been faced with wrangles, with Saisi claiming his life was in danger and even reporting assassination claims at Kisumu police station. He had accused Ottichilo of using junior staff to frustrate him. Addressing the press at Omido Broad Park hotel, Omido urged the leadership to instal a functional unit for development for the benefit of their constituents. “These wrangles on a daily basis will not help this county. We have registered dismal development within the county. We, therefore, quickly need to resolve this menace," the former MP said. While striking the deal, Ottichilo said a good working relationship between the executive will ensure development of the county. The governor acknowledged the misunderstanding between him and his deputy, admitting that it derailed development. “Our disputes come to end. Those differences that have been at our necks are now ironed out and we are going to work together for the public,” Ottichilo said. Saisi backed the governor's remarks, saying the disputes can be perceived positively to have moulded them to withstand challenges as they serve the public. The meeting united not only the top bosses but also executives and the chief officers who were also believed to be at loggerheads, Omido said. “The CECs and chief officers have agreed to work as a team to ensure quality service delivery as they support the government in its development agenda." The council commended a good working relationship between the Executive and county assembly citing that it sets a good example for other government organs. Omido said all members of the executive agreed to read from the same script for collective responsibility and urged residents to support the peace deal. Edited by R.Wamochie