The Kenya Forest Service has urged forest rangers to discharge their duties diligently despite the challenges they face in the conservation of the Mau Forest. The chief conservator of forests Julius Kamau praised the work done by his officers and promised that KFS will give them all the support they need. He made the remarks after visiting the Narok County Referral Hospital where a forest ranger Victor Mwenda is recuperating. Mwendwa was shot with an arrow in his thigh during an operation in the Mau Forest on October 6. “I commend the doctors for their quick action in removing the arrowhead that was lodged in Mwendwa’s thigh and the medical support they have given to him,”  Kamau said. Mwendwa was among security officers patrolling the Kipchoge area last week when they were attacked by a group of youths who are resisting the second phase of evictions. One suspect, Joel Cheborgei has been charged before a Narok court with assaulting and causing grievous harm to Mwendwa. He denied the charges. Kamau urged the settlers in Mau forest to cooperate with the government in conserving the forest. “The environmental conservation is the responsibility of every Kenyan and requires concerted efforts,” he said. The chief conservator called upon all Kenyans to plant trees in order to increase Kenya's forest cover to the required 10 per cent. Kamau reiterated that the government plans to plant 1.8 billion trees around the country by 2020 to rehabilitate the degraded environment. “I have been going around the country urging counties to set aside money to plant trees and already Uasin Gishu, Kakamega and Nandi counties have committed to planting over Sh5 million worth of seedlings each this financial year,” Kamau said. Meanwhile, Rift Valley regional commissioner George Natembeya has refuted claims of harassment and destruction of property by security forces in the ongoing exercise. Natembeya said the voluntary exercise is currently  85 per cent successful although grass-thatched houses had not been demolished as required. He spoke during a media briefing at Sierra Leon Forest Service camp after an aerial survey of the forest.