The EACC on Friday nabbed six individuals, including former and current employees of the Office of The Auditor General over irregular procurement of audit software. CEO Twalib Mbarak in a press statement said the six are among 24 individuals who will be presented to court upon processing. He said the Director of Public Prosecutions had reviewed the file and given consent to charge the officers with conspiracy to commit an economic crime, conflict of interest and unlawful acquisition of public property. The other charges include dealing with suspect property and money laundering. The six are Stephen Kithunia- former Deputy Auditor General Stephen Kinuthia, Justus Ongera - the director of ICT, Anne Mwangi - the manager of the IT department, directors of Enkei Holdings Desmond Kinuthia and Nelson Kinuthia and Charles Njuguna, a partner at Njuguna and Partners. Twalib said the commission has been conducting investigations into allegations of corruption at the Auditor General's office relating to the irregular purchase of an audit vault software at the cost of Sh100.675 million. This, the commission said, is against the estimated cost of Sh18 million. The said software was purchased from Open Systems Integration Kenya through direct procurement, purporting to be the only accredited partner of Oracle to supply the the audit vault software. "The commission established that there was no justification for single sourcing, the payment was grossly exaggerated and that out of Sh100,675,680.80 paid out, only Sh36 million was legitimately paid to Oracle for the Audit Vault Software,"Mbarak said. He said the balance of the money amounting to Sh64 million was paid as a kickback to public officials, private persons and their associated companies. "Upon completion of the investigations, the file was submitted to Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji who upon review has granted consent to charge 24 individuals and entities,"he said. As a result, the commission has directed 10 other officials at the office to present themselves at Integrity Centre immediately. They are sales director at Oracle Systems Kenya Charles Gichobi, Open Systems Integration Kenya non-executive directors Ephantus Kairu, Sylvester Kiplagat and their managing director Patrick Maina. Others are Enkei Holdings Director Charmine Kinuthia, Mars Technology Director Charles Mwaduna, Edward Mwachinga, Nanazi Investment directors Jane Kinuthia and Florence Kinuthia and partner Amolo Gachoka and company advocates James Gachoka.