The African Union special Envoy for Infrastructure  Raila Odinga on Sunday explained his role in President Uhuru Kenyatta's administration. Raila used the Mashujaa Day celebrations at Mama Ngina Dive in Mombasa to explain his order to stop the dredging exercise at the Likoni channel during the exercise to retrieve the bodies of a mother and daughter who had drowned on September 29. He said many people especially those in the political class had questioned his role in government after he made the orders. But in his response, Raila said he made the orders just as any Kenyan would do. "Many have been asking who I spoke as. I spoke as a Kenyan," said Raila. The bodies of Mariam Kighenda and her daughter Amanda Mutheu, 4, were interred in Kilome constituency, Makueni county on Saturday. Raila said the tragedy plunged the country into great sorrow. Raila who doubles as the ODM party leader and opposition leader said said the prominent handshake initiative started by him and President Uhuru Kenyatta will unite the East African countries after being successful in Kenya. He said there is a need to go back to the initiative started by the forefathers of countries in Eastern Africa which was to unite as a federation. According to him,  countries under Eastern Africa share a common thing which is the Swahili language. “Let us start the effort that had been foreseen by our forefathers of uniting Kenya, Uganda, Tanganyika, Rwanda,  Burundi, South Sudan and Congo,” Raila said. Raila maintained the country should honour heroes like Mekatilili wa Menza who played a big role in the fight for independence. He said the report from the BBI will unite Kenyans irrespective of tribe and urged Kenyans to support it. "The handshake came in handy to unite Kenyans and we should all support BBI" ODM leader said the main aim of BBI is to reconstruct the administration of the country. Mombasa governor Ali Hassan Joho had earlier said that he has seen the benefits of being part of the government through a handshake. Joho said that he had an opportunity to be in good terms with the President after being convinced by Raila.