The Senate has adopted a motion proposing that policies for training and employment of community health workers are developed. The Ministry of Health and county governments should formulate the policies for the benefit of the community health workers and to improve health provision. The motion by Nominated Senator Rose Nyamunga was adopted yesterday. “The Senate resolves that the Council of Governors in partnership with the Ministry of Health to develop a policy for the training, certification and employment of community health workers to enhance the emergency health service delivery in the counties,” Nyamunga said. The lawmaker said that there are many unemployed community health workers who can deliver care during emergency situations. The health workers, she added, have the requisite experience to support the medical practitioners in the counties. Nyamunga said that most hospitals in the country are ill staffed, subjecting Kenyans seeking health services to untold pain and suffering. “According to the World Health Organization 2014 report, there are two doctors for every ten thousand people,” she said. Nyamunga said that the community health workers should be equipped with basic equipment for use during emergency cases. Currently, community health workers work on a voluntary basis. “The diverse nature of counties and wanting infrastructural development is compromising the quality and accessibility of health centres especially during emergency situations, resulting in the loss of many lives occasioned by the failure by patients to reach health facilities in time,” she said. Kericho Senator Aaron Cheruiyot said the community health workers are the first point of calls in the rural area but have been sidelined by counties. “They respond to nearly every emergency in the rural areas but the counties do not care about them. They are not even facilitated to move around,” he said. The senator called on the Ministry of Health to develop a standard policy for training and employing the community workers. (edited by O. Owino)