Ever since youthful singing sensation C'zars disappeared without a trace on October 13, 2006, his fans and family have been wondering what became of him. A week before he was supposed to sit his KCSE exam, he left to visit a friend in the neighbourhood, never to return. And now, 13 years later, there are fresh allegations that C'zars, real name Mohammed Karim, a relative is claiming to know his whereabouts. Joyce Lorna, who claims to be the singer's cousin, tweeted that the 'Amka Ukatike' hitmaker had gone to hide in Australia. "Czars and I are cousins. When he 'allegedly' potead... a family gathering was called tumtafute. Australia," she wrote. Word Is reached out to Abdul Makasi, C'zar's father, who doubled up as his manager. Makasi pleaded with online users to stop spreading rumours. "Where was she? I don't understand. If she was his cousin, she would have informed me, the father, first," he said. "But now, she has written things that I don't know. You can never take this issue and write on Twitter about it, and you know my son has never been found." Adding, "I don't know her and I don't know about this issue. If anyone has found C'zars or knows anything about him, take a photo, send it and let me know. "I can never hide such information from the public. If you know how I can find him, it is right to inform people through the right channels, instead of spreading rumours." He said the tweet was unpleasant to read. "That was really hurtful. I felt unhappy," he said. "This has been a common thing because there was a time that they spread rumours that he is coming and has already released another song. A lot was said. I don't understand why people would do that to me." Adding, "So far, I haven't been given any information that will lead me to my son. The first four years, I was being told he is in Eastleigh and Pangani, I looked for him without a trace. If I get anyone who will help me look for him, I will appreciate." Makasi says he still holds his son very dear to his heart and would welcome him with open arms if he indeed returns. "If he comes back, it will be a happy moment. I will let him go on with the life he wants. I will not interfere with his life because he must be a grown-up now. Mine is to pray for him that God will bring him back safe," he said. He says if C'zars was still doing music, he would be one of the most-sort-after musicians not only in the country but across the globe. "Musically, I think he would have been one of the top artistes in the world, according to the talent he had. His quality of music would have been very high," he said. Makasi reminisces the happy moments he used to have with his son. "He used to call me 'Daddy'. He was so close to me, he was my friend and we would share life together. We loved each other and when he went to perform, we went together. I remember a lot," he said. He is hopeful that one day, C'Zars will come back home.