A cancer survivor has urged for the local manufacture of colostomy bags to reduce costs incurred when buying them. The colostomy bags are mostly imported and sold in select pharmacies and costs between Sh800 and Sh1,400 for reusable bags. Disposable ones go for Sh100 per bag. A colostomy bag, also called a stoma or ostomy bag, is a small, waterproof pouch used to collect waste from the body. This allows waste products to be excreted through the opening in the abdominal wall rather than via the colon through the rectum and anus. During a colostomy surgery, surgeons divert one end of the large intestine into a visible opening known as a stoma on the patient’s abdomen. By diverting waste away, the colostomy bag can allow irritated or inflamed areas of the colon to heal. Sally Kwenda, a cancer survivor who has used the waste bags for the past 10 years said the economic burden patients who use the bags go through is huge. “The colostomy bags are not readily available in the country and if you are lucky to get it then the cost is too high,” she said. She said in a day, a person needs one or two bags depending on how they eat. “That is something the government should look into and consider local manufacture. They are not manufactured here that explains the high prices,” she added. Since many get financially drained by the treatment, poor patients have had to settle for improvised jar lids, cloths or polythene bags as stool or urine bags. For the few with the purchasing power, locating a pharmacy that stocks stoma bags is still a hurdle. “Many people refuse to go through the operation or they refuse to eat so that they avoid getting pressed due to lack of the bags,” Kwenda said. Some survivors are forced to wash the disposable bags, hang them to dry and reuse. That can easily cause infections. Some are caught between buying the bags or buying food. The reusable bags are disposed of after two or three uses. In addition, users have to buy a base that ranges from Sh700 which is attached to the pouch and used up to four times or less if it soils. Colorectal cancer is among the top 10 cancers in Kenya. This cancer can either start at the colon or the rectum, otherwise called the large intestine. According to recent Globocan data, there were 1,354 estimated new cases and 937 deaths from colorectal cancer in 2018 in Kenya. There are probably more cases and deaths that were not reported or diagnosed. Common symptoms of colorectal cancer include a change in bowel habits with stool thinner than normal, constipation, bright red or very dark blood in the stool, diarrhoea, constant fatigue and discomfort in the abdomen with bloating and frequent gas pain.