There's the constant temptation to take shortcuts in order to achieve quick results. Whether you're looking to make profit or progress, the appeal to have things done quickly is constantly present. At least for most of us. Short messaging service or SMS remains a great way to reach out to people and has become more personal. This is because there's so much noise out there that has made SMS seem somewhat exclusive. In the world of advertising, it is no different. Businesses want to reach as many people as possible in order to move their product or offer their services. Of course, vigilance about profits is necessary but shouldn't quality take priority? This is why SMS remains one of the best ways to acquire quality leads. One Kenyan company that provides quality SMS service delivery is Better SMS limited. Recognized by Safaricom PLC as a Premium Rate Services (PRS) provider, they offer Bulk SMS, Short codes, IVR (Interactive Voice Response) and USSD Services. Good quality, competitive and negotiable prices have made this company one of the fastest growing companies of its kind in Kenya. They boast a wide client portfolio including BAT Limited, Transparency International Kenya, UNHCR, Moran Publishers and the Kenya Human Rights Commission. Bulk SMS The company offers a powerful gateway with an easy to use interface and excellent architecture. The versatile application can use a GSM mobile phone attached to a computer. The goal is to provide the highest performance, availability and security to run the most demanding SMS applications. The application is able to send 100 SMS messages per second (both sending and receiving) and supports multiple simultaneous connections. It works 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. The technology incorporates network link failures and SMS service provider failures with automatic reconnect capability, backup routing and fail-safe load balancing. Message loop protection is also included to avoid threats caused by auto responding mobile messaging services. USSD USSD (Unstructured Supplementary Service Data) is a Global System for Mobile (GSM) communication technology that is used to send text between a mobile phone and an application program in the network. Applications may include prepaid roaming or mobile chatting. USSD is similar to Short Messaging Service (SMS) but unlike SMS, USSD transactions occur during the session only. With SMS, messages can be sent to a mobile phone and stored for several days if the phone is not activated or within range. Short codes Better SMS limited offers 5-digit short codes, for example, 21456, 22007, 22049, 22001, 22008, 22005. Short Codes can be used to offer interactive services like database result querying, lottery, feedback services, gaming and betting services. Get in touch Would you like to get these unique services offered by Better SMS limited? Send an email to info@bettersms.net. You could also call them on +254 (0) 722 134 699. Visit the website on bettersms.net