Political bigwigs yesterday pitched tent in Kibra to drum up support for their respective candidates as campaigns for the hotly contested seat entered the homestretch. Party leaders Raila Odinga (ODM), Musalia Mudavadi (ANC) and Moses Wetang'ula (Ford Kenya) crisscrossed the constituency to drum up support for Imran Okoth, Eliud Owalo and Khamisi Butichi respectively. Raila, while making a passionate appeal ahead of the November 7 poll, told the constituents that a vote for Imran is a vote for him. "A vote for Imran is a vote for Baba," he said. The ODM leader made an extensive tour of the slum constituency, addressing two major rallies at Bhukungu and Laini Saba Grounds. Raila first made a stopover at Bhukungu, where a scuffle ensued between ODM brigade and Ford Kenya youths who claimed to have booked the grounds for their candidate, Butichi. Butichi attended a service at Church of God, Pefa Church in Mashimoni and Free Pentecostal in Makina before holding a roadshow in the area. He later addressed a rally at the Bukhungu area before embarking on a door-to-door campaign. Mudavadi had his rally in Kamkunji area disrupted by rowdy youth who threw stones at his brigade. He was addressing his supporters when a group of youths emerged from behind and started hurling stones and bottles at his vehicle. With him was Owalo , Sabatia MP Alfred Agoi and other party officials. Police fired tear gas canisters to disperse the youths who were now charging at ANC supporters. “All we want are peaceful elections. We want the people of Kibra to be given the opportunity to elect a person of their choice,” Mudavadi told the youths. He added, “Kibra has experienced mature and peaceful campaigns so far. But some parties used to unleash violence when put in a corner are now engaging in violence to intimidate voters.  They are afraid they have lost the game and must now disrupt it.” Mudavadi called for the disqualification of the candidate who sponsored the violence, saying he is well known. “The IEBC should not sit on its hands on this matter. The perpetrators of violence are known, and the sponsor too. It should intervene before victims feel helpless and engage in retaliatory attacks to protect themselves,”  he said. He added that it is unfair and unfortunate for the youths to be condemned to the culture of alcoholism and violence. “This was organised violence to portray ANC candidate as unwanted but the voters of Kibra have said Liwe Liwalo ni Owallo”, he said. The standoff between ODM and Ford Kenya over the venue also resulted in violence and it lasted for some minutes. One person was injured. Raila was accompanied by a host of party leaders including deputy party leader and Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya, Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala, Godfrey Osotsi (nominated MP ), James Nyikal (Seme), Gertrude Musurive (nominated senator), Otiende Amollo (Rarieda), TJ Kajwang' (Ruaraka), Simba Arati ( Dagoretti South) and former Wetslands MP Fred Gumo. Butichi told residents they should vote for him because he was raised in the constituency and thus understands the problems they face. “Having lived here, I know the difficulties you people go through first hand. Vote for me and together we will work towards making our lives better,” he told residents of Makina.