Embu elders want the decades-old Mwea settlement scheme dispute resolved. The Nyangi Ndiiriri Council of Elders says the land should be redistributed as soon as possible, otherwise further delays will worsen the situation. Council chairman Andrew Ireri on Monday expressed concern that more people are settling in the scheme. He said children who were born in the settlement have now become grownups and all sellers want a share of the 44,000 acres. Ireri said the last subdivision only benefitted outsiders who are well-connected and genuine residents were ignored. "If distribution of the land is delayed further, it will never be possible for it to be done satisfactorily since more people are settling in it and demanding a share," he said at Kairuri market, Embu North. He was accompanied by council secretary Patrick Kamwega, among other elders. Ireri said they had proposed the best way to tackle the problem through a petition to the government. He urged the county and national governments to consider their proposal to stop the dispute from escalating. The last distribution attempt led to its division into 7,232 parcels but chaos after ensued as most settlers protested. Last year, Cabinet secretaries Fred Matiangi (Interior) and Faridah Koroney (Lands) stopped the exercised after one person died and eight others were maimed as the settlers engaged the police in running battles. The elders appealed to the government to distribute relief food to the elderly and other vulnerable groups in Embu county. They said many residents are starving after their crops failed last season because of inadequate rainfall. Ireri said the little relief food distributed thus far only benefitted the Lower Mbeere region, which is worse hit by drought and famine, but there are hundreds of equally hungry people in Upper Embu. He said Embu is never considered a famine-hit area because of its green environment, which monitors misconstrue to mean it is food-sufficient, yet some parts are worst hit by drought, he said. He said that even in Upper Embu, residents who grow tea on a quarter of an acre are also suffering and should be on relief. Ireri hit out at Embu leaders for failing to properly highlight the worsening food situation in the county. The elders asked local leaders to aggressively lobby for the construction of four mega-dams at Rupingazi, Thuci, Thabana and Kamumu. They said the government had promised to implement the projects to support irrigation but they have stalled. The elders further decried corruption at the Embu Teaching and Referral Hospital. They said patients are referred to private laboratories that charge high fees for tests, yet the level five facility has machines. "Where will you get that money when you don’t even have food?” Kamwega asked. (Edited by F'Orieny)