AFC Leopards have the opportunity to claim top spot at least for 24 hours when they take on Western Stima at Machakos' Kenyatta Stadium this evening. Leopards are second in the Kenyan premier league table two points behind traditional rivals Gor Mahia and three points today will see them move atop the standings yet again. The Ingwe players have not played a competitive match for two weeks after they were given a walkover in their last clash and they will be keen to test their competitive edge against a Stima side that has been known to frustrate them in years gone by. “It is an important match for us and our target as always is to get three points. The team has trained well and the boys know what is at stake and we hope to give our fans a win,” said assistant coach Anthony Kimani. Leopards will be relying on Whyvonne Isuza, Marvin Nabwire and Jaffery Owiti for goals. Stima's Villa Omrochan who has been on target for Stima in the last two matches will be expected to lead their attack alongside under 20 international Benson Omala with Kelly Wesonga pulling the creative strings. Stima are on a five-match unbeaten start to the campaign and three points will take their tally to 12, same as Gor. Third-placed KCB face a tough test to their title credentials when they take on Ulinzi Stars at Afraha. Zedekiah Otieno's side have so far lived up to their billing as contenders for the championship. With ten points from their opening five matches, the bankers have an opportunity to go top with a win this afternoon. “Ulinzi are a side that is determined to fighting fro the league. It is going to be a tough match away from home. But we have prepared well and we are ready to compete for the win,” he said. Sofapaka, who unlike many of their rivals enjoy financial backing form betting firm, Betika, will look to repay the faith shown in them by the company who extended their partnership by injecting a further Sh35 million to the club. Batoto Ba Mungu are away to Nzoia United. Wazito will play hosts to Kakamega Homeboyz as Kisumu All Stars entertain Mathare United. In the top billing match of the weekend, Kariobangi Sharks take on champions and league leaders Gor.