A man has sued his estranged wife for kicking him out of their matrimonial home and bringing in her lover. PK2 says his wife, PK1, committed adultery and when he complained about it he was driven out of their home. The woman had filed a report with the police claiming PK2 was threatening to murder her and her lover. The police investigated the claim but found it to be false. PK2 says she locked both the gate and the main house to prevent him from accessing the matrimonial home. All his personal documents and clothes were in the house and he was unable to do his day-to-day business. The woman then filed a case before Judge Alfred Mabeya seeking to block the man from interfering with her title and enjoyment of the matrimonial property. The couple got married on August 22, 1998, and between 2006 and 2008, they built a home in Meru county. The land is registered in the woman’s name. They separated early this year following differences. The man left to live in Mikinduri, while PK1 stayed in the property. PK2 explained that he allowed the woman to be registered as the owner because she was a civil servant and working in the lands office. She was to hold it in trust for the family, he says. But the woman painted a picture of a violent man who in a way forced her to walk away from her marriage. To back her allegations of violence, she produced police abstract reports in court. She also produced a sale agreement, banks statement and loan confirmation to prove that she acquired and developed the property. During a hearing, the man told the court that the property was acquired jointly and that he had contributed to the construction of the house thereon. However, he could not produce receipts of his contribution saying they were burnt. The court said such claims were unverifiable and amounted to an afterthought. “He did not state when and where they were burnt. Neither did he state for how much they were. The court did not believe him,” Justice Mabeya said. He said it would not be wise to wait for a fatality to occur in a case where violence is alleged. He, therefore, issued an injunction sought by the wife. “It is not safe to wait until a fatality occurs before action is taken. Prevention of the same will be better than to cure it,” Mabeya said. He declared that the house belongs to the woman and barred the man from setting foot in it. He further ordered that PK2 be accompanied by Meru Central police station boss to the house so he can remove his personal belongings. (Edited by F'Orieny)