Transport has been disrupted for the past two weeks following heavy rain in Mandera and neighboring Ethiopia. Sections of all weather roads have been cut off by flash floods. The Mandera-Moyale-Nairobi road is impassable. In Mandera West, bridges have been washed away making it impossible for buses to ferry passengers from the region to other counties. The chairman of the Mandera buses association Mohamed Bardad decried the poor roads in the region. "We have stopped traveling to Nairobi because the roads are completely impassable. The heavy rainfall has cut off sections of the road and we cannot connect to either side. We will wait until it subsides, " Bardad said. The National Drought Management Authority has said the county has received above normal rainfall. NDMA drought coordinator Hussein Alio said the region has lost livestock due to cold-related diseases. Gither MCA Rashid Mohamed said over 1,000 goats have succumbed to the downpour. Farmers along River Daua flowing from the Ethiopian highlands have lost their crops to floods as the river has broken its banks spreading to over three kilometers. Meteorological officer Otin Dipo warned the rains will likely increase from the third week of October to December. Dipo in a briefing to journalists in Mandera town asked residents to move to higher ground to avoid drowning from flash floods. Takaba Town MCA Bishar Abdullahi lamented the destruction caused by the flooded river that has burst its banks. “People along the seasonal river have been displaced, houses submerged and we are in the process of knowing how many people have been affected,” he said as he called for humanitarian support. “These are effects of the downpour in the Ethiopian highlands since we are yet to receive enough rain locally to cause this kind of destruction,” he said. Mandera West deputy county commissioner Kipkoech Labatt described the situation as disastrous. “The situation is not good in Mandera West but we are hoping a reduction of downpour in Ethiopia will calm our situation,” he said.