A Machakos church has lost an appeal to set aside Sh1 million compensation awarded to a man who was knocked down by its vehicle four years ago. Benjamin Mwanzia Muoki was knocked down along Machakos-Kitui road on October 11, 2015, by a vehicle belonging to the Catholic Church diocese of Machakos. He suffered injuries to his head and left leg. Muoki lost two teeth and his jaw was fractured. He had three fractures on the lower jaw, fracture of the right cheek bone and fracture of the right temporal ear and his face was deformed. Muoki was taken to Machakos hospital. He incurred a bill of Sh42,875 but still goes to hospital for further treatment, he said. According to eye witness Griton Mwanzia Titus, who testified in court, the vehicle sped off after hitting Muoki. He sued the trustees of the Catholic Church diocese of Machakos as owners of the vehicle. He asked the court to hold the church liable for negligence and sought compensation for injuries suffered and future medical needs. The church denied liability, saying the accident was as a result of contributory negligence by Muoki. The church also argued that the driver of the vehicle in question was on his own and the appellant was not liable for the acts of the driver. Father Alexander Muthei Ndeti testified that he was driving the suit vehicle when a person dashed onto the road and fell on the right side of the vehicle. He said that the person appeared to be drunk. The court found that the driver was driving at a speed above that prescribed by law and it was correct to find that the church should shoulder 100 per cent liability. The court found that an award of Sh1,800,000 would be reasonable for general damages and awarded Sh13,250 as special damages and Sh500,000  as future medical expenses. The church appealed the court's decision. In its appeal, the church said the trial court ought to have found it 30 per cent negligent on liability. It also argued that the award was extremely high. Judge D K Kemei, who handled the appeal, said,"In any event, it was the responsibility of the appellant’s driver to ensure that he drove carefully and observed other road users. The fact that he suddenly hit the respondent shows that he was driving at high speed and failed to apply brakes or swerve or do anything to avoid hitting the respondent." He ruled that an employer is in general liable for the acts of his employees or agents while in the course of the employers business or within the scope of employment. Justice Kemei then awarded Muoki Sh500,000 for general damages, Sh500,000 for future medical expenses and Sh13,250 as special damage compensation.