Good morning, President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Jubilee administration plans to plunge you deeper into debt and is pushing a radical law change allowing it to borrow as much as Sh3 trillion more. Acting Treasury Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yatani has proposed amendments to Parliament that if approved would give Jubilee a blank cheque to borrow as much as Sh9 trillion. The country’s debt stands at Sh5.8 trillion, almost 300 per cent more than the Sh1.89 trillion Uhuru inherited from the Kibaki administration in 2013. The Treasury seeks to do away with a requirement restricting public debt to utmost half of GDP. Here are the other stories making headlines in the Star this morning. The mother and daughter who died after their car slithered from a ferry into the Indian Ocean were coming from a shamba trip in Kwale. The two have been identified as Mariam Kighenda, 35, and her daughter Amanda Mutheu, 4. On Sunday evening, their Toyota ISIS KCB 289C veered off the rear ramp aboard the MV Harambee and sank into the ocean headfirst. The Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) has defended its formation, saying it was established for public good. Researcher Moraa Gesicho seeks to block the team from handing over their report to President Uhuru Kenyatta before the case is heard and determined. But in its response, the BBI, through Paul Mwangi, one of its secretaries, has asked the court to dismiss the petition, saying the taskforce was established as a matter of public interest. The cost of parking a car in the Central Business District will double from Sh200 to Sh400 after Governor Mike Sonko assents to the Nairobi City County Bill, 2019. The bill was passed by the county assembly on Thursday last week. The parking charges have been categorised as Zone One (CBD) at Sh400, Zone Two (Parklands Westlands and Upper Hill) at Sh300, Zone Three (commercial centres) at Sh200. Shadrack Wambui, 28, is a young, fast-rising lawyer. He is popularly known as the lawyer who successfully represented the Rastafarian case, where a young student was chased from school for having dreadlocks. He is also one of the lawyers in several other high-profile cases, including the Cohen murder case and the Kitany-Linturi divorce case. In his other life, he is a boxer. We sat down with him for an in-depth interview about his life, career and achievements so far. Opposition chief Raila Odinga's allies have warned of "trouble and chaos" if Deputy President William Ruto continues to insult and ridicule the people of Kibra. At least 10 MPs allied to Raila yesterday said that Ruto was pushing the residents of Kibra to the wall in a manner that could force them to “respond and return the country into chaos.” They told Ruto that Kibra voters are dignified and principled. "When they are pushed to the wall and insulted as Ruto is doing, they will respond and Ruto may just get the trouble he is looking for. He will then have himself to blame for returning the country into chaos,” the MPs said in a statement to newsrooms.