The Muslims for Human Rights body on Monday held reconciliatory talks to foster unity between Lamu East locals and security agencies following the murder of a police officer two weeks ago. Constable Hesbon Okemwa disappeared on October 2 as he left Kizingitini police station heading to his duty post at Tchundwa Police Station in Lamu East at around 5am. His badly mutilated body was discovered on October 5 inside a forest in Kizingitini area but his G3 rifle, which was loaded with 60 bullets, is still missing. Residents have accused police officers of brutalising them as they pursued the missing officer. Locals also accused police of beating them up ruthlessly as they searched for the missing gun. Following the incident, there has been a tense atmosphere in the affected areas and between the police and locals in the region. However, in a meeting that brought together security officers, human rights lobbies and locals, Muhuri sought to bring back trust between the two parties. Muhuri civic educator Said Hassan urged both sides to recognise and respect the fact that life is sacred and that as such, no one had the right to take kill anyone. He stressed on the need for a good working relationship between the police, community, NGOs and the media. “We understand that trust between police and the public has been torn after the murder of the officer a few weeks ago. Our objective is to try and restore that. Of great importance should be the understanding of the fact that the right to life is not a favour but a constitutional provision that must be respected by all,” said Hassan. He said police and rights groups have a duty to ensure such rights are duly protected but at the same time asked the community to realise the fact that police officers are equally human and their lives are equally sacred. Muhuri’s Jaffar Masoud condemned the killing of the police officer but said the acts of human rights violations meted on the public by police were unlawful. “We condemn both the killing of the officer and the brutality meted on locals by police. None of this is right. Investigations should have been carried out first to find out those involved instead of collectively punishing an entire village with ruthless beatings. Let’s practice humanity,” said Masoud. He said cooperation between police and the public will enable the community to share crucial information that will make the work of security agencies easier. “In both cases, human rights were violated. It’s unfortunate we lost the officer but today, we are here to unite all parties. Let’s be friends and help each other. Let’s not see each other as enemies,” he said.