An employment court in Nyeri has awarded an M-Pesa cashier more than half a million shillings in damages for oppression by her employer. Justice Nzioka wa Makau last week ordered Generation Electric Allied Limited to pay Caroline Wambui Kiguai, a former employee, a total of Sh485, 690 excluding accrued interest and costs of the case. Through Kenya Union of Commercial, Food and Allied Workers, Kiguai told the court that she was forced to resign from the company after her employer transferred her to Eldoret from Embu immediately after her maternity leave. Kigusi said she was employed verbally on October 5, 2012, as an M-Pesa cashier earning a basic salary of Sh8,000 per month with no housing allowance. Kiguai said she was on maternity leave and was to resume on May 3, 2017, when she received a text message from the company accountant informing her to report back on May 6, 2017. “The accountant then called the next day informing me that I was to be transferred from Embu to either Machakos or Eldoret, whichever I preferred,” she said. Kiguai said she pleaded that the transfer be postponed since she had a small child, but the company declined and proceeded to issue her with a transfer letter that required her to report on May 16, 2017. “I sought deferment of the transfer but the company declined, warning me of dire consequences if I failed to report to the new station,” she explained. Kiguai said she opted to resign from her employment after being frustrated while still healing and nursing an infant. “I made a painful decision to terminate my services and reported the matter to the union,” she said. The union filed a case seeking terminal dues for Kiguai amounting to almost Sh1.5 million, including the deficit of salary which is recommended in the Employment Act. Through the director David Mwangi, Generation Electric Allied Limited claimed that Kiguai was a casual worker who resigned on her own volition and therefore could not blame the company for her imagined deprivation. Mwangi said Kiguai was employed on a temporary basis and that no letter of employment was issued as she was never fully in employment. He denied dismissing her and stated that she refused to be transferred to the company’s branch in Eldoret and demanded payment of her dues, which she was given. “We paid all her dues as per her arrangement. There was no law that barred the company from transferring its employees to any of the branches countrywide,” he said in a statement. The company thus sought the dismissal of the claim with costs asserting that her place was taken by a more competent employee and that they had paid the dues agreed between them. “Kiguai never complained of underpayment during her employment,” he said. In his ruling, however, Nzioka wa Makau noted that Kiguai was treated in a callous manner by her employer. “It is disingenuous to assert that the aggrieved was a casual member of staff less competent than others yet promptly transfer her to Eldoret upon her resumption of duty after maternity leave,” he ruled. He said that a female employee is entitled to three months maternity leave with full pay and has the right to return to the job which she held immediately prior to the leave or to a reasonably suitable job on terms and conditions not less favourable than the previous. He also noted that the company failing to accord Kiguai the options meant that the transfer to Eldoret was without proper foundation as much as they had the authority to transfer its staff. The employer created an environment that forced its employee to resign from her employment, ‘a classic definition of constructive dismissal’ which occurs when an employee resigns as a result of the employer creating a hostile work environment. The judge, however, declined to give her benefits accrued from underpayment since she did not raise the matter during her employment as required and therefore waived her right to seek redress for the underpayments in previous years except for the final year of her employment. “She, therefore, would be entitled to Ksh176, 845, the difference in pay between the salaries earned for the final year of her service which is Sh14, 737 a month lower than the statutory minimum for Embu. She will also be paid as well as Sh308, 845, maximum compensation for unlawful dismissal on account of the malicious constructive dismissal just after her maternity leave,” said the judge. He added, “She will also be paid costs of the suit together with interest on the sums awarded at court rates”.