Bungoma county has neglected Mt Elgon and the Sabaot community "feels like aliens," a rights activist has said. Daniel Chemaket wants Cheptais town elevated to a municipality so,that it is eligible for more funding and development aid. "We are sad to report the Sabaot community has been left out yet there are deliberations to elevate towns like Chwele and Webuye while Cheptais and Kapsokwony have been left out," he told the Star on Monday. Chemaket said there is a "disconnect" between the county government and the Mt Elgon region. "When plans are underway to elevate those towns into municipalities, Elgon has been forgotten and we no longer get services from the county government." Elevation of the town will create employment, help with planning and improve the drainage system, he said. Currently, he said, Cheptais town is badly planned with shops constructed haphazardly, causing drainage problems. "Let the governor tour Cheptais and witness for himself if the town needs elevation or not. The population is enough and we are the highest in tax payment. Why should we be denied the municipality status?" he asked. During the budget-making process, Mt Elgon was given Sh3 million for the construction of Chesikaki, Sirisia water project. "We have no flagship project in Mt Elgon." The activist faulted the county government for leaving out Mt Elgon in its development agenda The county has elevated Bungoma and Kimilili towns and a delineation team is considering expanding their boundaries. There are plans to elevate Chwele and Webuye towns. The two municipalities have received funding from the World Bank for construction and development. Kanduyi will have development projects like the Sh1.4 billion carriageway from Musikoma junction to Kanduyi Market and the Sh700 million Masinde Muliro Kanduyi Stadium, Chemaket said. The county is also constructing a milk processing plant in Webuye town. He asked why the county government is not considering putting up "serious" projects but "instead concentrates only in lower regions". "Sirisia constituency will have the English potatoes processing machine installed, while Kabuchai constituency will have tea-processing equipment, yet all the raw materials are from Mt Elgon," he said. Edited by R.Wamochie