About 2,000 former employees of Juja Sisal Farm in Ruai want the police barred from evicting them from 5,005 acres they say belong to them. In an application filed in the Constitutional Court by officials  Peter Sakala, Elijah Sekah, Selina Okumu, Joseck Otengo and Samuel Ouma, they have accused the police under the direction of the officer in charge of Ruai station of harassing and forcibly evicting them from their land N0 LR 10904/2. Through lawyer James Orengo, they filed the application under a certificate of urgency. Ex-ranching is a group of former Juja Sisal Farm employees who were left to stay on the same land when their employer left, particularly on block No.105. In the suit, Embakasi Ranching Company is listed as the first respondent, while the Nairobi chief land registrar and the attorney general are listed as second and third respectively. The victims claim the police and the Njiru deputy county commission have continuously harassed and demolished their houses. They say that on February 20, the Ruai OCS sent armed officers to demolish their houses. “On the same date, the defendant (Embakasi Ranching Company) also hired goons who attacked us with pangas and rungus, beating us up without sympathy,” they said. “This has led to some of the members running away for fear of their lives.” The complainants say Embakasi Ranching Company has willfully and unlawfully invaded their property, meted out violence to them, and maliciously damaged their property. “They have now embarked on evicting members of the petitioner from the property — an outright interference with the rights of members in contravention of our property rights as guaranteed under the Constitution,” they say. They urged the court to secure their rights to avert the imminent threat of unlawful and irregular eviction from a place they have known as their only home for more than half a century.” “The members crystallised property rights are deserving of the court’s protection as a matter of urgency before the respondent starts demolishing and destroying property,” the court papers read. (Edited by F'Orieny)