Two MCAs from one of the counties are plotting a lifetime lesson on a young college girl who they claim have snatched a governor from them. The lawmakers have been uneasy with the manner the county boss has been insisting on having the young university student in most of his foreign trips. The governor – Corridor has learnt – is of late ignoring the MCAs and at times does not pick up their calls. Corridors on Wednesday overheard the angry MCAs punching the air vowing to show the innocent lady ‘that we were in town when she was in kindergarten’. Two governors from Coast region were left flustered during the Mashujaa fete following the anti-climax event came to naught. The County Chiefs has bet that the President Uhuru Kenyatta would wade and chime into a sticky topic on BBI and when he performed the tradition of conferred the honours to legendary athlete Eliud Kipchoge, end left the dais without much anticipated off the cuff remarks, the county bosses were left red-faced. It took the intervention of a neighbouring Governor to tap the shoulders of the two close Governors, to jolt them from the temporary miasma, that the meeting was over. The duo retreated to their villas later in the day and was overheard spewing expletives and condemning the leaders for setting them to fall belly up in such an auspicious occasion. That animosity within the ministries is rife is not a secret. A PS appearing before a House Committee was left blue and pale on the face, lest the CS threatened to spill the beans and reveal the ugly stinking skeletons and bones in the closet of the accounting officer. The PS was seen vainly and frantically attempting to whisper instructions into the ear of the CS to deflect and divert the hair-splitting questions by MPs.The duo who have been enjoying the frosty relations have been at loggerheads following revelations that the new CS was shutting the taps of graft, clipping unfettered powers and littering the feeding through of the PS. Three members of a special committee tasked to formulate an elaborate roadmap to right the wrongs that have bedevilled the country, were stunned after the CS they had approached to give an ample kitty for law review faltered. The trio was dismayed after the CS who is said to be exerting his authority and inculcating stringent values to the ministry, ducked and snubbed their overtures to have a meeting and hammer a deal. The CS was heard saying the country is bleeding and haemorrhaging from huge debts and bad economic policies. Failure to secure resources has rippled the team that is said to be on a verge of imploding at a popular room within Kenya’s iconic international convention venue