The decision on an appeal by the DPP against the acquittal of suspects accused of defrauding Miwani Sugar Company of Sh2.3 billion land is set for Tuesday (today). Sukhwinder Chatte, Ian Maina, Philip Odongo, Epanaito Okoyo and Crossley Holdings Limited were acquitted for lack of evidence. The DPP appealed their acquittal. Their co-accused Adulakadir Elkindy, a former magistrate, and Moses Osewe, were found to have conspired to defraud the state firm of 9,394 acres between May 21, 2007, and January 30, 2008. The ruling was to be delivered on September 24 at the Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Division of the High Court in Nairobi but it was pushed to October 1. Kisumu chief magistrate Julius Ng'arng'ar had ruled that Elkindy and Osewe had a case to answer and put them on their defence. Thirty witnesses testified. Elkindy was charged with abuse of office, but she said her signature was forged to facilitate the alleged transfer. Osewe is said to have failed to collect land rates. One the accused, John Gitau, died before the ruling was made. The Directorate of Public Prosecutions faulted the acquittal. Assistant DPP Frederick Ashimosi in July told the Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Court that he had sufficient evidence against the five. He told the Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Court they had proof that the value of the grabbed property was Sh2.3 billion and took issue with Ng’arng'ar's assertion that the investigation was shoddy. "We will also prove that the land in question belongs to Miwani Sugar Company and not as earlier ruled,” he told Justice Mumbi Ngugi while submitting the appeal. The accused are said to have conspired to defraud the state through forgery, fraudulent disposal of public property and fraudulent acquisition of public property. Ashimosi said parts of the ruling were contradictory. “The magistrate ruled that Osewe and former magistrate Elkindy had a case to answer on charges of abuse of office, yet he established that there was no proof of a conspiracy against Chatte and Crossley Holdings, to whom the property was transferred,” he said. He said evidence at their disposal showed that Maina, Kimani, Odongo and Okoyo aided the irregular transfer by forging documents.