The government will deal firmly with people encroaching on private and state farms on the borders of Kisumu and Nandi counties. Muhoroni deputy county commissioner Erick Wanyonyi said people who have invaded private and government lands will be arrested. He said there are reports that people from Tanzania and Mau are settling in farms they do not own in the area. Currently, he said, some relatives of Tanzanians who were settled in parts of Muhoroni years back are sneaking into Kenya and illegally settling there. “Security teams will move into the area to flush out those illegally settling in the area,” Wanyonyi said. He spoke on Sunday during the Mashujaa Day celebrations in Muhoroni stadium. The commissioner warned that nobody who contravenes the law will be spared. “We can’t allow people to invade government or private lands," Wanyonyi said. He said the illegal structures that have been put up in the property belonging to individuals and the state will be demolished. “Even if you’ve spent a million to build a house on land that does not belong to you. I will flatten it,” Wanyonyi added. The border has in the past been troubled following the illegal invasion of private farms that also led to the killing of a farm manager to former Judge Effie Owuor early this year. Muhoroni MP Onyango Koyoo called for peace among those living on the borders saying they should embrace dialogue. Koyoo, however, asked those who have encroached on government and private lands to find alternative places. This, he said, will prevent conflict. Wanyonyi also called for concerted efforts to resolve the boundary dispute in the  Koguta clan in Muhoroni. Wanyonyi said the Koguta community has been seeking answers on the boundary question but no solution has been found. He says the issue has remained controversial and at many points slowed government efforts to fight crime. Wanyonyi told Koyoo that the situation now needs the intervention of local leaders and the administrators. He said that is the only solution to bring the leaders both from Kisumu and Kericho counties to find a lasting solution to the problem. Wanyonyi said the dialogue was critical to look into the border issue amicably.