Everybody loves freedom but ex-convicts in Lamu would rather be locked up again in crowded grimy cells than live in a society that rejects and stigmatises them. The Kenya Prisons Service in Lamu county is concerned that many ex-cons cannot deal with the immense stigma and deliberately commit crimes so they will be locked up again, feel accepted and less judged. Lamu County Prisons Superintendent John Muchoya accused the community of being intolerant of those who have served their time. He said they make it impossible for them to start afresh though they have paid their debt to society. “They would rather be in jail than at home. Their family, friends and society have rejected them. Truth is, they have reformed and want a chance to prove just that but they don’t get it. The community is so tight when it comes to accepting ex-cons and it’s not helping,” Muchoya said. Kenya wants to decongest its prisons, undertake early release of some offenders and keep petty criminals out of jail. But the community rejection will be an obstacle. Speaking in Lamu on Wednesday, Muchoya said records show "a huge chunk" of ex-cons who are released each year end up back into the prisons, mostly because they can’t stand the hatred and so they re-offend. Muchoya said the community had failed the justice system by refusing to believe that ex-cons can be reformed and contribute to society. He said many of them have endured physical and verbal abuse based on the crimes that sent them to jail. The prisons boss said the current situation was causing worse congestion in already-congested prisons that are way over-capacity. The superintendent said the community has a duty to give them a second chance at proving they can be  useful  to society, He said the majority of those locked up in Lamu prisons are drug dealers and urged the community to defeat sales and use of narcotics. “About 45 per cent of prisoners are drug dealers,  the remaining 55 per cent includes those convicted of defilement, robbery with violence, traffic offences, among others. Most drug dealers are between ages 18 and 25 meaning, they are still under their parents' watch and we call calling on parents to take charge and fight this vice,” he said. Muchoya also urged parents whose children are using drugs to enrol them at the Lamu Rehabilitation Facility in Hindi. (Edited by V. Graham)