 Lack of awareness and smoking is the major cause of throat cancer in Busia, a retired career nurse has said. Peris Wandera on Wednesday told the Star there were not enough laboratories and devices to undertake cancer biopsy. This combined with lifestyles, including smoking were to blame for the increase in cancer cases, she said. The Busia Hospice and Palliative Care founder regretted that there were no vehicles to reach patients in remote areas. She asked the county government to intervene and help save lives. Speaking at the Tanaka Hospital as the cancer awareness month comes to an end today. Wandera asked residents to seek cancer screening services in good time. She said three out of 10 residents seeking treatment in county hospitals were diagnosed with cancer. Wandera's main objective is to help people living with cancer to control pain. She often refers patients to other hospitals and offer counselling. “This is a worrying trend that calls for concerted efforts,” Wandera said. She said cancer is manageable if detected in stages 1 and 2 but not 3 and 4. “Cancer patients do not only need palliative care but patient-centered care. The field of palliative care is expanding rapidly, thus the need for early diagnosis.” She cited bloodline, taking foods with a lot of oils, sugar and lifestyles leading to consumption of too much alcohol. “People need to change their eating habits and adopt traditional foods devoid of oils and other ingredients which are harmful to our bodies,” she said. She said non-communicable diseases were on the increase and urged the county government to follow residents into their homes for help. Since 2014 when the hospice was launched by Busia Governor Sospeter Ojaamong, Wandera said they have attended to about 2,000 cancer patients while others are attended to at the Busia County Referral Hospital. Deputy Governor and acting Health executive Moses Mulomi called for concerted efforts to ensure screening for non-communicable diseases for early detection.  edited by peter obuya