Kaloleni MP Paul Katana has ordered an audit of all public schools in the constituency to access their infrastructural conditions. Speaking in Kaloleni during the groundbreaking of Mwanawiji Modern Primary School on Saturday, Katana said the move is aimed at renovating the schools which are in a poor state to avert disasters. “We have 86 primary and 37 secondary schools in Kaloleni. Some of them are not in good condition and that’s why I want us to undertake this audit so that we can start with the ones that are worse off. I do not want a situation where we wait until a disaster strikes then we start pointing fingers at one another,” Katana said. The audit will be undertaken by the Kaloleni NG-CDF committee and the subcounty public works officer. The directive comes barely a day after the ministry of education closed down over 100 schools with substandard infrastructure at the Coast only. Early this year, a section of schools were blown off by heavy winds. At Tsangatsini Primary, a classroom built in 1972 was blown off in April. Fifteen pupils sustained minor injuries as they scrambled out of their classrooms. Mwanawiji Primary was on the brink of being closed for lack of toilets. The school has only one permanent classroom and two other dilapidated classrooms. The school also has one pit latrine which is shared by both teachers and students. The mud-walled latrine is also in a poor state. Most of the class sessions are conducted under mango trees. During the rainy season like, classes are combined which makes it hard for teaching to take place. The NGCDF is now putting up four classrooms, administration block, library and toilets at Sh10 million. Other schools that risked closure and were salvaged by the Kaloleni NG-CDF include Mariakani Primary due to lack of toilets and Gogo Ra Ruhe School due to lack of classrooms and toilets. The MP warned NGOs operating in the constituency against using the misfortunes of the constituency to enrich themselves. Katana said some NGOs send proposals to donors to get funds to fight teen pregnancies but later use the funds to build themselves houses and buy big cars. DCC Paul Rotich promised to follow up the matter. Edited by R.Wamochie