Harambee Starlets coach David Ouma has named a travelling party of 20 players as the team fly out to Ghana today. Ouma, who took the team through their last training session yesterday, said he decided to select a mixture of youth and experience as he tries to find his way past a tough Black Queens side. Starlets have twice met the Ghanaians, first in the AWCON in Cameroon, where they lost 3-1 before registering a marked improvement in a 1-1 friendly draw in Nairobi. “Our team composition is very good and it carries an element of surprise for our opponents. It has a mixture of youth and experience which I believe bodes well for the national team now and in the future,” he remarked. Ouma, who is recovering from a hand injury sustained following a fit of rage during Starlets first leg clash with Malawi in late August,  said the team could not have prepared better for the gruelling two-legged tie against one of the continent’s best women football teams. “We have been in camp for the last two weeks and I must commend the club for their cooperation in availing their players for the residential camp. The federation has also done their part by facilitating me to be able to watch the players we were considering for the national team as this gave us a wide pool from which we selected the final squad,” he said. Ouma revealed that the competition in the initial 30 strong Starlets squad has given them the opportunity to refresh the squad when need be. “We need to be competitive in the back to back matches (against Ghana) and mental attributes are key at this level. I believe the competition we have had for places in the team has improved us ahead of this match,” reiterated Ouma. Skipper Dorcas Shikobe and midfield Corazone Aquino will bring a wealth of experience to the squad that includes school girl Jentrix Shikangwa and Elizabeth Katungwa. Meanwhile, Mwanahalima Adam has exuded confidence that the Kenyan women team can defy the odds and come home with a good result. The diminutive Thika Queens attacker said there was little to choose between the two nations ahead of Friday’s clash. “Ghana do not scare us. The only thing we have to take into the match is self-belief. The last time we met them, they needed a last-minute free-kick to claim a draw. That shows we are more than a match for them,” said Mwanahalima who confidently promised Starlets fans a goal or two. “I am in a good moment now. I have trained well and I feel with good service, I will score at least one goal,” said the loquacious star. Her sentiments were echoed by team captain Dorcas Shikobe who pointed to the harmony and camaraderie in the squad as key ahead of their clash with the Black Queens. “We have trained well for the last fortnight and the morale in the camp has been high from Day One and that is what we needed going into such an important match,” said the skipper. SQUAD: Goalkeepers: Annette Kundu (Eldoret Falcons), Judith Osimbo (Gaspo Women); Defenders: Dorcas Shikobe, captain (Oserian Ladies), Vivian Nasaka (Vihiga Queens), and Wincate Kaari(Gaspo); Midfielders: Lydia Akoth (Thika Queens), Sheryl Angach, Quinter Atieno, Corazone Aquino (Gaspo), Jentrix Shikangwa (Wiyeta Girls school), Bertha Omita, Mercy Airo (Kisumu All Starlets), Topista Nafula (Vihiga Queens); Forwards: Janet Moraa,Ruth Ingosi (Eldoret Falcons), Elizabeth Wambui (Gaspo Women), Cynthia Shilwatso (Vihiga Queens) Elizabeth Katungwa (Kwale Girls), Nelly Sawe and Mwanahalima Adam (Thika Queens).    