 President Uhuru Kenyatta's key projects in Kakamega have stalled and a legislator attributes this to either sabotage or deliberate attempt to isolate the county. Navakholo MP Emmanuel Wangwe said the revival of Mumias Sugar Company and the tarmacking of the Lurambi-Nambacha-Musikoma road are the head of state's projects. Both have both stalled. “I am wondering whether it is an act of sabotage of the President by his juniors or a deliberate attempt to isolate Kakamega county in terms of development by the Jubilee administration,” Wangwe said in Kakamega on Tuesday. He said that money had been allocated for the road in the national budget, but the contractors have not been paid, forcing them to leave the site. “There is no doubt that there are some people in government out to sabotage the President because even after he issued an executive order that all pending bills be cleared, the contractors have not been paid to date,” the MP said. President Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto commissioned the tarmacking of the road that links Kakamega to Bungoma in December 2016. The works did not start until late 2017. In one of his numerous visits to Kakamega early this year, Ruto announced that the government had dismissed the initial contractor for slow and shoddy work. The job was then awarded to three different contractors. One contractor was to do the Lurambi to Nambacha stretch; the other Nambacha to Musikoma and the third contractor the Musikoma-Bungoma town section. They have all left the site. Mumias Sugar Company has been shut for over a year due to lack of raw materials and huge debts. Kenya Commercial Bank, one of its lenders, placed the miller under receivership last month. The national government has sunk Sh3.7 billion in the company’s turnaround plan. Wangwe said he had met Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i over the two projects on several occasions but nothing is forthcoming. Matiang’i is the co-ordinator of national government ministries. “Matiang’i should remind the President that the two projects he is personally involved in are grounded,” he said. Early last year, Governor Wycliffe Oparanya accused that the Jubilee administration of launching fake projects in the area.  