The Kenya Union of Post-Primary Education Teachers has faulted the government for failing to provide education services in informal settlements, especially in Nairobi. National chairman Omboko Milemba said the neglect has resulted in the proliferation of substandard schools. “In Dagoretti, where Precious Talent Academy is located, there is no single public school in an entire ward [Ng'ando] with more than 100,000 residents,” he said on Wednesday. Milemba told Education CS George Magoha that "instead of shadow-boxing", he should urgently offer ideas on improving school infrastructure, with informal settlements prioritised. Kuppet said despite the population of Nairobi doubling for the past 30 years, the government has not established a single school within this period. Milemba said the government created an alternative licensing standard for non-formal (alternative basic education) schools because of acute demand for schools. "These schools fall short of the standards for public schools. Kuppet will mobilise all its forces including supportive MPs to ensure funds are made available for such investments," he said. The neglect, Kuppet said, has prompted non-governmental organisations to build schools and hire teachers in the slums. "They got to this because the ministry is doing nothing. If other sectors are coming in, then it is the mistake of the ministry." Milemba said In Ngando ward has massive land belonging to Lenana School. He urged the government to allocate a portion for construction of public schools. Kuppet secretary-general Akelo Misori said the union has commissioned a study to establish the level of compliance with the Safety Standards Manual for schools. The study will obtain up to date information from 564 institutions from all subcounties. "It is our expectation that it will help the government take steps grounded on a solid understanding of the safety of schools and that can, therefore, be sustained," Misori said. The study will obtain information from at least 47 primary and 27 secondary schools from the largest urban centres per county, two private primary and secondary schools each, two non-formal and two special needs schools. The findings will be released later this month. Edited by R.Wamochie