Leaders in Naivasha have reacted angrily to reports that Moi South Lake road, which recently witnessed demonstrations over its poor state, will only be patched up, not redone. Kenya Rural Roads Authority (Kerra) has said a contractor was being sought to carry out emergency repairs. Acting director general Luka Kimeli said the procurement process for a suitable contractor will be completed by the end of the month. “The authority has noted with concern the recent protests regarding the Moi South Lake road in Naivasha and we apologise for the inconveniences caused to motorists and in this regard we are hastening the procurement of a contractor to carry out emergency works,” his letter says. However the letter has been received with harsh criticism, with leaders saying they want the road fully recarpeted. Lake View MCA Karanja Mburu said the road was a key income earner for the country and deserved better. Mburu said all flower farms, tourist hotels and government agencies use the road for day to day operations and it should be upgraded to bitumen standards. “We cannot accept what the authority keeps on saying, that some emergency works will be done. We want a total upgrade so that it can serve its purpose,” he said. Addressing the press in Naivasha, Mburu said time had come for the town to reap the benefits of the Jubilee administration by ensuring proper infrastructure for all. Youth leader James Omondi warned the contractor may face a backlash from residents if he embarks on emergency repairs. “We cannot be taken for granted and we are willing to go back to the streets if need be until we see this road recarpeted just as is being done across the country,” he said. However Naivasha deputy county commissioner Mbogo Mathioya urged calm, saying he had called a meeting to resolve the impasse. “I have called a meeting next week on Monday where officials from Kerra and other stakeholders will be present so that we understand what the authority means by emergency repairs,”,he said.