Football Kenya Federation Women's Premier League defending champions Vihiga Queens require a minimum of three points to successfully defend the title. The league leaders who boast of 70 points have three fixtures left in the 2019 season which pits two other top sides. Whereas the five-year-old Vihiga Queens only require one victory to lift the league trophy for the third year running, Gaspo Women must win both their remaining ties and implore football gods to forsake the former for them to be champions. Third-placed Trans Nzoia Falcons (64 points), come face-to-face with Vihiga Queens in their only remainder of the league on November 9, a tie whose results will be of no title importance to them. The club's boss Michael Senelwa intimated that did display character in their weekend's 0-1 win over Zetech Sparks in Ruiru through a Cynthia Shilwatso free-kick from the 22 yards spot. “The girls almost bow in to pressure and a little lapse in concentration would have cost us the game if the score-line is anything to go by. The matches that had much pressure (the last two weekends) on the team are gone and we are now upbeat. Morale is high in camp,” said Senelwa. Head coach Alex Alumira noted that his charges are keen on defending the title for a second time and they would be leaving nothing to chance. He said they are not yet off the hook. “The girls are mentally strong and focused on defending the title and I know we can lift the trophy. There is no room for complacency. “We picked knocks here and there but that is normal. At the moment, we are tightening all the nuts so that in the remaining three matches we can play without any pressure. The girls have been in this situation (contesting for the title to the last minute) before and I think they will overcome any pressure this time,” said Alumira. In their next assignment, Vihiga Queens face mid-table lineup Makolanders FC on Saturday at the Mumias Sports Complex before taking on Gaspo Women who are hot on their heels with 67 points on the second position on November 3 at home.