The family of a man who allegedly died from police torture in Ugunja, Siaya, has blocked a postmortem suspiciously organised by the accused officers. Sylvester Otieno was arrested last week by a village elder after a resident accused him of stealing his old iron sheets. He was marched to the Ratado police post, where villagers claim he was tortured and beaten to death by the police. Investigations by DCI officers are underway. There were claims the officers brought in a doctor to secretly examine Otieno's body on Wednesday even though his family had planned to have the postmortem conducted on Monday next week. The family got wind of the plot and stormed Ukwala Subcounty Hospital mortuary and scuttled the plans, saying their pathologist must be present. They were accompanied by human rights activists. Otieno's father, Geoffrey Odoi, neighbour Julius Onyango and Malaika Foundation field coordinator Fredrick Ojiro demanded an explanation from the police why they hurriedly scheduled a postmortem, despite an earlier agreement that the same be carried out next Monday. The family was to get an independent doctor from the Independent Medico-Legal Unit to represent it during the process. They warned that they will not accept any result obtained in the absence of their representative. They alleged that the doctor brought in by the officers had been compromised to fake results in their favour. After a bitter exchange with the family, the officers and hospital authorities bowed to pressure and postponed the exercise. Speaking to the media later at Otieno's home in Sifuyo, West Ugenya, activist Ojiro accused the police of bias in their investigations into the cause of the 25-year-old's death at the hands of their counterparts at the Ratado police post. He said they were aware of efforts to tamper with evidence and blame the death on alcoholism, adding that some administrators had even bought illicit liquor, known as "Milingilo" from a neighbouring village in Busia county and forwarded to the investigators alleging it was Otieno's. Human rights activists have planned a three-day peaceful protest outside the Ukwala police station to push for the arrest of a village elder and policemen linked to the death of the father of three if they will not have acted within the next five days. "The policemen and the village elder have been going round intimidating witnesses and we demand they be arrested immediately," Ojiro said, calling for an independent probe. Malaika Foundation has got in touch with several human rights and independent oversight agencies who have accepted to take up the matter on behalf of the family. West Ugenya ward administrator Abondo Kakijana called for an immediate overhaul of the police post, saying the officers had turned the facility into a torture and bribery den. He claimed people are arrested and tortured at the post and their families compelled to part with bribes to secure their release. It is alarming, he said. "If the government cannot take action against these officers, it can as well close the post. We can't have officers, charged with the task of securing us, turning against the community, beating and maiming us with impunity," Kakijana said. Siaya county police commander Francis Kooli last week said Directorate of Criminal Investigations was handling the case. He added, however, that the initial reports filed by his officers indicated that Otieno was released after the complainant said he did not wish to proceed with the case. The police boss said Otieno left the police post walking but was later taken by family members to the nearby Sifuyo health centre while drunk. The family dismissed the claim, saying Otieno died at night at the hands of the police after he was arrested at 11am. Odoi said attempts to have his firstborn son released fell on deaf ears as the officers demanded a Sh3,000 bribe. "When we saw him at the police post shortly before he died that night, he was foaming in the mouth while groaning in pain. He had been handcuffed and hanged on a window," Odoi said. He appealed to the government to ensure justice for his son. (Edited by F'Orieny)