Kibra candidates have intensified their campaigns to try and convince residents to vote for them during a by-election on November 7. The election was occasioned after the death of Ken Okoth.  Okoth died of cancer. Among the candidates seeking to replace him are; Jubilee's  McDonald Mariga, ODM's Bernard Imran Okoth, ANC's Eliud Owalo among others. The Deputy president William Ruto hosted Jubilee candidate McDonald Mariga, grassroots leaders from Kibra constituency and some politicians at his Karen home on Friday. Those in attendance included Dagorreti South MP John Kiarie and Starehe MP Charles Kanyi who drummed up support for their candidate. Mariga said,"President Uhuru served me with water before handing me the Jubilee branded cap to seek the Kibra seat." President Uhuru Kenyatta and his Deputy William Ruto on September 19 assured him of unwavering support. Uhuru and Ruto met the former Harambee Stars player at State House on Wednesday and vowed to fully rally behind him in the race. During campaigns on Thursday, Mariga met residents in their homes wearing a navy blue suit with a white shirt with no tie. Accompanied by a few youths, Mariga walked through Kibra as he greeted its residents and sold his agenda. "We will talk and walk the talk with the people directly,"Mariga tweeted.  Owalo was also not left out as he campaigned in the area. Owalo was former ODM leader Raila Odinga's aide. He moved from the lobby group to head Raila's 2013  Presidential Campaign serving as Head of the CORD Presidential Campaign Secretariat and Chief Campaign Manager to former Prime Minister. Owalo fell out with Raila during the ODM primaries for Kibra at the 2017 elections and is now the candidate of another former Raila ally Musalia Mudavadi's ANC party. On Thursday he met people of Laini Saba ward in Kibra at the open air market. "This morning I undertook a comprehensive meet-the-people tour of Laini Saba Ward in Kibra Constituency. One of my main stops was at the Laini Saba open air Market,"he tweeted. He also  met Kibra residents in the informal business sectors promising them support if he wins in 2022. "The informal business sector remains Kibra's economic lifeline which supports thousands of livelihoods and must be underpinned by able leadership and representation.,"he said. Owalo thanked Kibra residents for the peace and maturity they have shown and their determination to make this campaign about their issues. On his part, Imran who is Ken Okoth's brother on Wednesday embarked on a one on one meeting with residents in their businesses. "When people love someone, it shows on their faces. The smile and the laughter explain and tell the feeling. And that is the kind of love the people of Kibra have for Bernard Otieno Okoth Imran."ODM party tweeted. Imran on Sept 20  held a townhall meeting with grassroot officials from all Kibra wards at the AIC church ground in Woodley. The team was led by ODM chairman John Mbadi ,ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna and Director of campaigns Junet Mohammed.