Who killed them? Was the question everyone would have loved answered as they attended the memorial service of the mother and daughter killed in South B. Judith Mwai, 73, and her daughter Catherine Nyaguthie, 47, were found dead at their Golden Gate home last week. Judith's widower John Mwai is yet to be told of the deaths. He has been ailing for nine years and depended on the two for care. The family said John was used to seeing Catherine and Judith every day and would be wondering about them having not seen them for more than a week. Catherine, who the family said was similar to her mother in many ways, left employment at Cooperative Bank to help Judith take care of John. “The father fell ill and lost his speech nine years ago, but Judith took very good care of him. Every time I went to see him, I always found him clean and well fed,” said preacher Charles Kariuki on Tuesday. The service was held at St Veronica ACK. Family and friends said Judith, a former Treasury employee, was loving and a disciplinarian, while Catherine was ever punctual and had excellent baking skills. Judith and John's only surviving child, Robert Murithi, paid tribute to his sister, who he said was meticulous, organised and valued family, just like their mother. He said the two gave up everything for the family. The two will be buried in Kerugoya on Thursday. Their bodies were found in separate rooms in their home last Monday night. A police source told the Star they believe the daughter may have killed the mother and then killed herself. The source said Judith's body had strangulation marks while there were no visible marks on Catherine's body. Police say the killer called and taunted them after the murders. They believe the caller was a woman. Friends and family who attended the memorial service said the news came as a shock since Catherine and Judith were in good health. “When we were informed of a tragedy at the family, most of us assumed that the deceased was the father, Mwai. It was not until we went to the house that with shocked, we learnt of the demise of the two," one said. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya