The feel-good factor brought about by their qualification to the last 32 of the CAF Confederation Cup quickly dissipated for Bandari as they squandered the opportunity to move to the top of the Kenyan Premier League table after a 1-1 draw against Posta Rangers. Posta drew first blood when, for the first time in the match, Francis Nambute was given a sniff of goal by the central defensive pair of Felly Mulumba and Brian Otieno and he took full advantage to drill the ball past Mike Wanyika. The goal stunned the hosts and they sort an instant riposte. Though they are accustomed to playing at the Mbaraki surface, Bandari seemed to be struggling to stay on their feet. Soon after conceding, William Wadri played a lovely through pass to Abdallah Hassan, who initially slipped but still managed to get a shot away but it was blocked by Charles Odette. Posta were determined to keep their lead by means fair or foul. A dangerous tackle on Shaban Kenga by Odette allowed Darius Msagha to take aim from the subsequent free-kick but his effort deflected off the wall for an unsuccessful corner. The Dockers persistence paid off on the stroke of halftime when Abdallah, not for the first time, got beyond the right-back Teddy Osok and crossed for Kenga to thump in a header past Jairus Adira. But despite the draw, Bandari still jumped five places to second on the table with eight points from four matches, one behind leaders Gor Mahia. Posta are 11th with five points. Bandari are back in action on Sunday with their match against Sofapaka at Kenyatta Stadium in Machakos being moved from 2 pm to 3 pm. In other changes made for this weekend's league matches, the kickoff time for the Sony Sugar versus AFC Leopards game has changed from 3 pm to 1 pm to avoid the rains that have been forecast to hit the greater Nyanza region in the afternoon. The match venue, however, remains Awendo Green Stadium, tomorrow. Also, the clash pitting hosts Western Stima against Ulinzi Stars tomorrow has now been moved to Mumias Sports Complex due to the unavailability of Moi Stadium, Kisumu. The kickoff time for the match has also been brought forward by an hour to 2pm. Gor Mahia’s match against Zoo Kericho originally scheduled for Machakos has been moved to Afraha Stadium, Nakuru on Sunday.