Gor Mahia midfield enforcer Tobias Otieno is losing no sleep despite being overlooked for the national soccer team, Harambee stars squad that lost to Mozambique last Sunday. The former Sony Sugar hard man has been a revelation in his first few months at the 18-time league champions and has been touted as a future national team regular. “I am happy to continue working hard and helping my club achieve their objectives. The matter of being selected for the national team is one that the coaches have to make. I know if I continue playing well for Gor, eventually God willing, I will get a chance,” said the Under-23 international. Four of Tobias team-mates at Gor Clifton Miheso, Lawrence Juma, skipper Kenneth Muguna as well as defender  Joash Onyango were in the starting line up for the Mozambique friendly—something that thrilled the 21-year-old. “It is a motivation to see players you are with every day in training playing for the national team. It gives you believe that if you work as hard as they do, you will also get an opportunity to play at that level. It is every footballer’s dream to represent his country and I am no different,” remarked Toby. Though he is mainly used as a defensive shield by coach Steven Pollack, Toby’s ball-handling skills enable him to venture further forward and he revealed that he is working hard to add goals to his game. “Football has evolved. It is no longer the sole responsibility of strikers to score. Goals are something that I am working hard to bring into my game,” he explained. Gor will be back in action this weekend to defend their perfect start to the campaign when they take on Kariobangi Sharks at Kasarani. The defending champions remain firm favourites to win an unprecedented fourth successive league title having amassed twelve points in an unblemished title defence so far. “Our fans are very demanding and that gets to the players and we cannot rest on our laurels. Every season has different challenges and our target again is to retain our title and do well on the continental front,” concluded Toby.