A section of the civil society have called on President Uhuru Kenyatta to assent to the Financial Bill 2019 as it is. This is after cigarette and alcoholic beverage manufacturers came out last week to fight against the 21 per cent increase in excise duty. The Bill seeks to impose an increment of excise tax on tobacco and alcohol in the country. In a joint statement signed by Alcoholic Beverages Association of Kenya, Mastermind Tobacco and British American Tobacco on Thursday last week, the manufacturers termed the move by Parliament’s Departmental Committee on Finance and National Planning to increased the excise tax on cigarettes, wines and spirits by 5.15 percentage points from the original proposal of 15 per cent in the Finance Bill 2019 as strange. The Bill is now awaiting presidential assent. But officials from the Kenya Tobacco Control Alliance, the Alcohol Control and Policy Network, the Non-Communicable Diseases Alliance of Kenya and the International Institute for Legislative Affairs, however, on Tuesday noted that tax and price measures are the most effective NCDs control strategy. “Tobacco and alcohol have been established to be the leading causes of NCDs such as cancer and cardiovascular disease,” Emma Wanyonyi from IILA said. Manufacturers said they will pass on the additional costs to consumers thus pushing millions of consumers into consuming illicit products. “The manufacturers have a way of arm twisting the government because all they think about is profits at the expense of the health of the ordinary Kenyan,” Achieng Otieno from KETCA noted. “Taxes are not the singular cause of illicit trade in tobacco and alcohol. Other measures such as strengthening of tax administration and effective implementation of the electronic goods management system can be adapted to control any perceived concerns,” David Mukami from NCDs added. The World Health Organisation estimates that by 2020, tobacco death toll will reach 10 million with more than 70 per cent of deaths from low and middle-income countries. “Excise taxes on tobacco and alcohol are therefore a key strategy for the provision of UHC as envisioned under the governments big four agenda,” Phillip Gichana from ACPN said. The WHO says four out of 100 deaths in Kenya is attributed to alcohol which also causes a high overall burden of diseases and injuries. In Kenya, tobacco and alcohol use are a major contributor to the growing burden of NCDs, which currently contribute 50 per cent of all hospitals admissions, half of inpatient mortality and 55 per cent of total mortality.