Ice-cool teenager Jentrix Shikangwa’s extra time penalty was enough to seal a famous 1-0 victory for Harambee Starlets as they knocked out highly fancied Ghana in the third round of the 2020 Tokyo Olympics qualifiers. Jentrix, cool as a cucumber, came good 10 minutes into the first extra period firing the ball home from the spot after Gladys Amfobea had handled a goal-bound header. Starlets now proceed to the fourth round where they will take on the winner of Zambia versus Botswana clash last night. Starlets had the better of the opening period curving chance after chance in the first 20 minutes which were not taken. Janet Bundi and Mercy Airo had taken the places of Jentrix and Cynthia Shilatswo as David Ouma sought to use the former duos’ experience but wasted several good opportunities. Once Airo was picked out by a pinpoint cross by Corazon Aquino but she missed her header entirely with only Duhamasi Fafali in Ghana’s goal to beat. Earlier, she had mis-controlled another pass lofted by Mwanahalima early. It was no wonder Airo was replaced at halftime with Shilatswo taking her place. The Vihiga Queens with number four on her jersey wasted no time in announcing her presence out muscling Ellen Coleman off the ball before firing a rasping shot that was well saved by Fafali. Ghana’s Grace Animaa was stretchered off after she was hit straight in the face by the ball from a clearance by Wincate Kaari. Starlets brought on Jentrix fro the final twenty minutes but in-spite of her and her teammates best efforts they could not find the back of the net. Ghana’s Black Queens were also limited in their attack with Annete Kundu barely tested by the visitors. The game eventually ended goalless in regulation time in both legs with Stars eventually coming good in extra time. A corner from Wincate was headed goalwards by Topista Situma with Gladys Amfobea handling the goal-bound effort, leaving the referee with no choice but point to the spot from where Jentrix sent Fafali the wrong way to break Ghana’s hearts and  Kenya in unmitigated jubilation.