Manager Ole Gunner Solskjaer is hoping he can use Aaron Wan-Bissaka, Luke Shaw, Victor Lindelof and possibly Anthony Martial this tomorrow against leaders Liverpool. All the players were in training at Melwood this week and showed definite signs of being fit to play a full match or at least in a substitute role. However, I have been told that Paul Pogba’s foot injury has not recovered sufficiently and he will sit out the match. He has been on light training in Dubai this week but returned to Manchester on Wednesday evening with a protective cast on his foot. Goalkeeper David de Gea is also out with a groin strain but United have the more than capable Sergio Romero ready to stand in between the posts. Solskjaer’s problems intensified with up to nine first-team players injured. Mason Greenwood has a back injury, Jesse Lingard a hamstring problem and Phil Jones a leg problem. The Reds have endured their worst start to a season in 30 years and desperately need Pogba, who has missed the last five games and Shaw and Martial have been out since August. Wan-Bissaka has been ill with tonsillitis but I am told he has recovered enough to be considered match fit.  The name Ibrahimovich is being whispered The word going around Manchester United is that they need to get an older striker who can help their youngsters develop faster and give them advice, leadership and most of all score goals! And who’s name do I keep hearing? Zlatan Ibrahimovic! At 37 years of age, he is still tormenting defences and has scored 23 goals this season in the American league. He doesn’t run too much these days but can still control a game because he is that good. Zlatan is 6ft 5ins tall and is a black belt at judo…no one pushes him around! The Swedish ace has told friends and also passed on a message to United that he would be interested in coming back if a deal could be struck. The only person I haven’t been able to pin down on this is Solskjaer but the pressure is building and he has to turn somewhere to rescue United’s season. Robert Lewandowski is certainly a possibility in the January transfer window if Bayern Munich will let him go. Injuries have made Marcus Rashford the main striker but he has found shouldering the responsibility too much with the result of several mediocre performances lately and a lack of form and goals.  How Lampard will cope without Kante At the Chelsea training ground, this week manager Frank Lampard was working on reintroducing his favoured 4-2-3-1 line up. N’Golo Kante hobbled out of training with the French national team and manager Didier Deschamps said it was a groin muscle pain. Lampard will wait until the last moment before deciding whether to risk Kante but current injuries will give him the perfect opportunity to use 4-2-3-1 with Mason Mount playing just behind Tammy Abraham with Hudson-Odoi and Willian on the wings. If Kante is unavailable at the last minute Mateo Kovacic will fill in for him.  Willian never happier Chelsea star Willian says he is playing some of the best football of his career because manager Frank Lampard has given him a free role to roam across the pitch. Celebrating his 300th game for Chelsea and scoring with a superb volley against Lille, in the Champions League, the 31-year-old said he has never been happier since coming to the Premier League. He thanked Lampard and said, “The freedom he has given to me is important. I don’t have to stay on the right side, I can move around. I feel good playing in this way and that’s why I have been playing better and better.” Good news for Chelsea fans but perhaps not so good for Steve Bruce’s Newcastle side who visit Stamford Bridge this weekend looking to build on their recent improved form.  Three more games to save Silva’s job There is a general feeling around northern club Everton that the next three games will decide the fate of manager Marco Silva. Following the departure of long term manager David Moyes, there have been three managers in the last two years as Everton look to compete with their near neighbours Liverpool. Four straight losses in a row have left the Toffees perilously close to the relegation zone. Fans were expecting the team to be challenging at the top of the league this season. Owner Farhad Moshiri does not accept failure for long and the manager is living on a knife edge. Silva pointed out this week that he had several players away on international duty and training was difficult but that of course applies to most Premier League teams. Digne and Sidibe are with France, Coleman with Ireland, Sigurdsson with Iceland, Keane and Pickford with England, Tosun with Turkey and Davies with England’s Under 21 team. Alex Iwobi and Richarlison are even playing against each other for Nigeria and Brazil respectively. A total of ten first team players are away. Planning, developing moves and tackling the team’s current under performances proved most difficult during training this week.  Keeper Alisson back for Liverpool Liverpool trainers were celebrating this week as they worked through a tough session with goalkeeper Alisson. Most of the players were given the week off because of the international break but Alisson was at the Melwood training ground for three days working with goalkeeping coach John Achterberg. The Brazilian sustained a calf injury against Norwich in the first game of the season and has not played since. Stand in keeper Adrian has done a good job but manager Jurgen Klopp is relieved his No1 choice Alisson has made a complete recovery. Alisson will almost certainly be drafted into the team for the away match to Manchester United this Sunday.  Modric fully supports Gareth Bale My sources at Real Madrid tell me that the 2018 Ballon d’Or award holder Luka Modric has spoken with Gareth Bale about his intention to leave the club in January. Gareth had a difficult time  when he was ignored by manager Zinedine Zidane who returned to the club but he has had limited success. Bale has now been drafted back into the team and has scored twice in seven matches. Modric emphasized what a valued player Gareth is when he said this week, “Gareth is an amazing player and very important for the team. Hopefully he will stay this season and next. He’s an important player for Real Madrid.” Gareth had considered a move back to the Premier League but Modric has spoken to him personally and has possibly persuaded him to stay in Spain.  First team selection but not in the dressing room˙ Arsenal manager Unai Emery believes in his young academy players and wants them to come through to play for the first team. Joe Wilcock, Bukayo Saka, Reiss Nelson and Ainsley Maitland-Niles are some prime examples. However, there is a strict code at Arsenal. Bukayo Saka made his Premier League debut against Fulham last season at 17 years of age. He is currently back in the real world and playing with the academy. Because of this Bukayo is not allowed in the senior team dressing room as Arsenal do not allow academy players to cross over the corridor and mix with the first team players and they have to be personally invited.  Kane loves American NFL Tottenham striker Harry Kane is in love with the American NFL. He was talking this week of becoming a kicker when his footballing days at Tottenham are over and fancies his chances. Several American football star kickers have warned him that it is not a simple conversion from Premier League to American football. Harry attended the NFL game between Oakland Raiders and Chicago Bears a few days ago which was played at Tottenham’s home ground White Hart lane. He has even named his two dogs after the two biggest stars in the NFL - Tom Brady and Russell Wilson!  Declan Rice is not interested in a move Manchester United have received a polite “not interested” message from West Ham’s midfielder Declan Rice. Declan was informed that United were preparing a £70million bid but said he wants to remain loyal to Hammers manager Manuel Pellegrini. Declan said this week, “I signed a five-year contract with West Ham last year which will keep me at the club until I am 24 years-old. The manager has given me my big chance and plays me every week and I owe him my loyalty.”  Klopp backing Milner Another senior player well into his thirties is James Milner. Such has been the impact of his contribution to Liverpool’s excellent start to the season that manager Jurgen Klopp has persuaded the club management to negotiate an extension to the 33 year-old’s current contract which runs out next summer. Despite his age, Milner has been hailed as an example for his fitness and commitment and says James is a very good influence on younger players. He is a leader and every dressing room needs someone like him. Klopp said, “He loves playing football and he appreciates the clubs he has played for, Newcastle, Aston Villa and City. He can play in five positions and is incredibly important for us. It will be a short term contract obviously but we want James to remain a City player.”