Having unsuccessfully muscled for a medal in the past three World Athletics championships, Ferguson Rotich is seeking to break the jinx today when he parades in the men’s 800m finals at the Khalifa international stadium Doha, Qatar. Rotich qualified after clocking 1:44.20 to finish second behind Wesley Vazquez of Puerto Rico in the semifinals on Sunday night. Multiple Olympic champion and the record holder David Rudisha was among the spectators who followed the race from the stands. The Diamond League specialist, who also missed out on the podium in last year’s Commonwealth Games in Gold Coast, Australia will not have the luxury of teamwork as the compatriots’ duo of Ngeno Kipngetich and Emmanuel Korir fell by the way in the semis. Korir finished third in the second semi-final behind Marco Arop of Canada and United States national Donovan Brazier. On the other hand, Ngeno came a distant sixth in the third semi-final. Rotich admits the medal drought in the international events has attracted pressure promised to rely heavily on his experience in the Diamond League to deliver. He said he has faced a good number of the finalists before and he is privy to their strengths and weaknesses. “I am praying this could be my year. This is my fourth championship and the pressure to deliver keeps on escalating. Things would have been better had Korir and Ngeno qualified but they are already out and there is nothing we can do about it. I am already in the final and looking at those who have qualified. I am privileged to have faced a handful of them before. It’s a final and everyone will be going for the win which means I have to be at my best.” Meanwhile, after narrowly missing out in the semis, Korir opened up on his struggles with reoccurring injuries this season but exuded confidence that he will come back stronger in the next events. “I now focus on the coming events; I have had massive challenges this season especially with injuries but I cannot complain too much. I know I will come back since I have the energy and I leave Doha with a basketful of lessons.” 