The 2009 Kenyan Premier League champions Sofapaka have threatened to report Egyptian outfit FC Tanta SC to Fifa next week should they fail to finalise the transfer of John Avire this week. The two clubs have been embroiled in a three-month transfer standoff for the want-away Kenyan international who mysteriously sneaked and signed a two-year-long deal with the top-flight newbies. With the Egyptian transfer window set to close on Sunday, Sofapaka have issued stringent monetary terms if the Egyptian side to avert the looming Fifa wrath. The former Shield Cup holders want FC Tanta to part with Sh3 million to have Avire on a loan and further allow him to fly back home to extend his stay with Sofapaka by two years. Alternatively, the club will have to buy the player at an estimated Sh 10 million. “They have until Sunday to meet our demands failure to which we will report them to Fifa for player tapping. "Avire remains our player and we will never issue him with his release letter until we get what is rightfully ours. They have been sending “jokers” to negotiate and the language barrier has been a challenge. "If they are in dire need of his services then they have to get him on loan and pay an extra 3 million. Additionally, they have to allow him to extend his terms with us for two years and if within the period they will sell him, the proceeds will be shared equally as he remains our player,” said club president Elly Kalekwa. The flamboyant president revealed that he had received a better offer from a senior club who ply their trade in the Zambian League. “A Zambian club is offering 5 million to get the player on loan and we are taking them seriously as opposed to Tanta.” Avire was part of the Harambee Stars' team that represented the country in the 32nd edition of the Africa Cup of Nations in Egypt between June 21 to July 19. It is during the tournament that Tanta are believed to have scouted the Pasenga Boys High School alumnus and launched plotted to have his services after the tournament. Avire jetted back with the team which failed to advance to the second round after beating Tanzania 3-2 and losing twice to Senegal (3-0)and Algeria(2-0). He, however, sneaked back to Egypt behind the back of his parent club. This prompted Sofapaka to clear all outstanding dues for the player and declined to issue him with a release letter.