A Kibera court on Friday acquitted a gospel artist accused of raping his photographer inside the Ngong Forest where they were recording videos. Francis Khulali, who appeared in court worried and stressed out, was cleared of the charges by magistrate Boaz Ombewa after the prosecution failed to prove the case against him. Prosecution had said Khulali on August 31, 2017, lured his girlfriend and photographer to keep him company at the Ngong forest where he said they would capture good pictures. He then tricked her to enter the forest deeper where he allegedly raped her, court documents show. Sharon Kwagu, the complainant, had testified that the Khulali was accompanied by several women who disappeared immediately they got deeper into the forest and she was left alone with the accused. She said he gave them Sh200 each to give him ample time with her. “I got worried when I realised that the other women had left me and him inside the forest, anytime I asked him where they were, he told me to relax,” Kwagu told the court. She said the artist became rude and arrogant and struck her head with a camera before raping her. “He struck my head and I fell on the ground losing my consciousness. When I came to, I found him on top of me. I had to cooperate because he told me to,” she told the court. Khulali told her crying would be fruitless as they were in the middle of the forest, Kwagu said. She said she had turned down several requests to be his lover but gave in later. They have been going out for two weeks, she said. Kwagu said after the act, she pushed him off, put on her pants, picked her shoes and left the forest. “I used my leg to kick him from my body immediately he had completed acting on me, he had threatened to kill me if I cried and so I cooperated. I called my mother and told her what happened and we laid the trap that led to his arrest." She was admitted and treated at the Nairobi Women Hospital where she was given anti-HIV medications, treated and discharged. Contrary to he hospital report she gave to court, the doctor told the court that her body was normal during the test. “Nothing indicated that the complainant was raped or assaulted." In his defence, Khulali told the court that Kwagu requested him to give her Sh600 after sex. He said he only had Sh400 which he gave her but she refused. “When I told her I didn’t have the money, she promised to teach me a lesson,” he said. He said Kwagu was well known to him and they had sex inside the forest. “She told me we could not have sex in the open field and requested that we move further into the forest to avoid the passers-by." He also admitted that he had invited her to help him in photo and video shooting. On Friday, the magistrate ruled that rape never occurred. Ombewa said from the evidence tabled in court, the act was done as an agreement and added that the complainant never screamed. “You see, the complainant cooperated and during the cross-examinations, she told the court that she only beat the accused person up after the act, “ Ombewa ruled. Ombewa added that there was no other person who witnessed the alleged rape. He said the two agreed to move further into the forest for privacy. The medical report filed in court was enough to prove that the accused person never committed the offence, he said. Edited by R.Wamochie