Calm is expected at the Nairobi assembly after the Jubilee Party reaffirmed that Beatrice Elachi is the legitimate speaker. Party secretary-general Raphael Tuju on Wednesday held a three-hour meeting at the party headquarters to solve the leadership stalemate at the assembly. Tuju said they agreed to respect the rule of law and court orders made before. Leadership wrangles have riddled the assembly for the past one year. "If there is to be any action, we are going to follow the constitution of the party and follow the rule of law. Therefore, the status quo remains until such a time  when the party will pronounce itself," Tuju said The decision means Elachi will resume her duties after a year-long absence, while Abdi Guyo will continue serving as Majority leader. Tuju said the party is still having talks with MCAs to gather their opinions. He urged the city legislators to ignore their personal interests and focus on how Nairobians will receive good services. Ngara MCA Chege Mwaura, who has been the acting speaker, has been left in a dilemma following the decision. His previous chief whip position was taken over by South B  MCA Waithera Chege after his unanimous election as the acting speaker in September last year. Mlango Kubwa MCA Patriciah Mutheu said the meeting was successful and was a big win for Nairobians. Kayole Central's Jeremiah Karani backed the outcome saying it was vital for peace in the assembly, especially within the Jubilee leadership. (Edited by F'Orieny) At the same time, Tuju said that the party concentrated on solving issues revolving around the speaker’s position and that it has not received any complainants regarding the position of majority leader. He further said that the party will also hold a similar meeting with Elachi and all the Jubilee MCAs on finding a way forward on their assembly relationship and how they will work together. “We have agreed to meet and ventilate on some of the issues that precipitated before the wrangles begun,”Tuju  said. On Monday at the DCI headquarters, Guyo softened his tone towards Elachi and said he had nothing against her but she should know her mandate as the Speaker. "I have not met with Speaker Elachi but when we meet we shall know the way forward. I have no problem with the former Senator but she should change her style of management and not to encroach in MCAs mandate,’ he said. The Secretary General called  on the MCAs to accord her the necessary support once the assembly resumes operations on October 29, 2019 . Elachi made a chaotic return to the assembly last week to the surprise of many and this has caused a major rift among Jubilee Party MCAs.Her return also unearthed a major fallout between governor Mike Sonko and Guyo. After the melee that ensued at the assembly, Guyo has since claimed that his life is in danger and that Sonko should be held responsible if anything happens to him.  On his relationship with Sonko, which is deteriorating, the Majority leader claimed that the governor, his long-term friend, is being misled by external forces. Tuju confirmed that the party is aware of the emerging rift between the two and that it will explore internal mechanisms to impart truce.   