President Uhuru Kenyatta on Saturday joined millions of other supporters in congratulating history maker Eliud Kipchoge. Kipchoge made history by being the first human to run a marathon in under two hours. Kipchoge crossed the finish line in 1:59:40. The President in his message said the win will inspire future generations to 'dream big and aspire for greatness'. “You've done it; you've made history and made Kenya proud while at it. We celebrate you and wish you God's blessings,” the President said. Deputy President William Ruto, who was in Vienna to watch the race with his wife Rachel and a team of governors, tweeted, "Your supreme tempo, fatigue-resistance, endurance, compulsion, mental strength, resolve, and tenacity are a manifestation there are no limits when you believe in yourself; undoubtedly the landmark triumph cements Kenya’s position in the globe as an athletics powerhouse. #INEOS159." AU envoy Raila Odinga tweeted, "This is the stuff of history @EliudKipchoge. You captured the imagination of the whole world before this great feat and it will continue for a long time. Congratulations on becoming the first human to run a sub 2 hour marathon.  is greater because of you! #INEOS159." Sports CS Amb Amina Mohamed in her congratulatory massage said, “The greatest athletic nation on earth. Welcome to the era of the sub-2 Marathon! Made possible by Eliud Kipchoge." In her message, she said the government would consider an appropriate reward for his inspiration to other athletes to break existing standards. Former world marathon record holder and NOCK president Paul Tergat on his part said the win has given Kenya an iconic mark, adding that it had shown that barriers could be broken. “This is what we always say.. Kenya is the hub of talents and our athletes and young people just need an outlet and support to shine,” Tergat said. “Hongera Kip. Well done. Let's absorb this and make reflections later. Monumental achievement.” Acting Treasury CS and CS Labour Ministry Ukur Yattani described it as a moment he witnessed history unfold, adding that Kipchoge had demonstrated that no human being should be limited in their thoughts and that indeed you can go beyond your limits. “He did it. Yes yes yes. A true display of unlimited ability. 1 man against time. The barrier is no more,” the Council of Governors tweeted. Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko in his congratulatory message termed the win a true testimony that no human is limited. “Hongera Eliud for making Kenya proud,” Sonko said. “Lupita Nyong'o showed us "all dreams are valid" and now Eliud Kipchoge has bettered it with "no human is limited" by the first ever sub-2 hour marathon run in Vienna. What a feat! Well done Eliud. You proved it for all humanity,” Gitobu Imanyara tweeted. Kajiado Governor Joseph Ole Lenku in a tweet congratulated Kipchoge for not only smashing the previous record but also putting Kenya among a specific class of nations. “They said its impossible, but the cradle of mankind proved science wrong. We are so proud as a country, congrats our most celebrated Eliud Kipchoge.” “Impossible is NOTHING. Eliud Kipchoge has proven that. Congratulations for running against time and beating time. You were so fast you broke time. Never tell a determined, focused person that 'its impossible. Eliud is a testimony,” tweeted Boniface Mwangi. Others who sent their messages include Safaricom, football club Manchester City, Kenya Defense Forces, Central Bank Governor Patrick Njoroge, footballer Yaya Toure, businessman Chris Kirubi, Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho and United Nations Resident Coordinator (UNRC) in Kenya Siddhartha Chatterjee among others.