Politicians have dominated the list of candidates shortlisted to fill the vacant positions for chairperson and members of the National Cohesion and Integration Commission. NCIC selection panel on Friday published a list of 66 people for interviews to occupy the positions that fell vacant following the expiry of the term of the former commissioners. Six out of the 66 will be interviewed to fill the chairman position that was previously held by ex-National Assembly speaker Francis Ole Kaparo. Those shortlisted for the chairman post are former National Assembly Speaker Kenneth Marende, former Gatanga MP Humphrey Maina, former Wajir Senator Abdirahman Hassan, Reverent Samuel Kobia, Michael Ndung'u and Ambassador Francis Arap Sigei. The lot will appear before the Priscilla Nyokabi-led panel for interviews between 7am and 1pm on Monday. Former Vihiga MP Yusuf Shanzu, politician–cum–activist Brian Weke, former Uasin Gishu Senator Isaac Melly, former Bumula MP Bonface Otsiula, former Transition Authority Chairman Kinuthunia Wamwangi and former Rangwe MP Philip Okundi have also been shortlisted. Other candidates are Cathrine Rugene, Millicent Otieno, John Munuve, Adan Fatum, Adan Ibrahim, Agnes Ndetei and Esther Michieka. Others are Sharon Wakhu, Priscilla Ateyo, George Kimani, Ruamana Abey, Abdikadir Ahmed, Cecilia Ngetich and Peris Nyutu. “Shortlisted candidates are invited for interviews at Annex Boardroom, Commission House along Harambee Avenue, Nairobi,” reads the notice. The candidates were asked to carry original National Identify card or passport, academic and professional certificates and clearance certificates from the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission, Kenya Revenue Authority, Higher Education Loan Board, Credit Reference Bureau and DCI. “Members of the Public are invited to avail in writing any credible information of interest on any of the shortlisted candidates,” Nyokabi said in the notice. Names of successful candidates will be sent to the president who will forward them to Parliament for vetting. If approved, the President will formally appoint them to serve in the commission for a period three years. The commission was established under the National Cohesion and Integration Act (Act No.12 of 2008) in a bid to realise long lasting peace, promote cohesion and sustainable development. It has, however, been criticised for not reigning in politicians and powerful individual spewing hate speech and incitement to violence. Previous hate speech cases involving top politicians have flopped in court. In August, a Court dismissed incitement charges against Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria saying that he had no case to answer. The charges state that on September 5, 2017, at Wangige market in Kiambu County, Kuria used abusive words that were intended to cause physical injury to a person. In February 2017, Kuria and Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu were acquitted of incitement to violence charges. The commission has, however, blamed small budget, shortage of investigators and delayed cases for the slow prosecution of the cases.