1987 world marathon champion Douglas Wakiihuri and three-time Boston Marathon winner Ibrahim Hussein have expressed optimism that world record holder Eliud Kipchoge can dip under two hours at the Ineos Challenge slated for this weekend in Vienna, Austria. Hussein, the Africa Athletics Development Centre Director said Kipchoge's transition from track to cross country has given him a solid foundation to create history. "He has a good background running track and cross country and his career has been on an upward trajectory. I think he is the right man to run under two hours,” said Hussein. Kipchoge who started his marathon career in 2013 is also the Olympic marathon champion and Hussein noted that the experience of running on the tarmac will hold him in good stead. "He has quality mileage in those legs and a fighting spirit, which, coupled with a winning mentality, will serve him well over the weekend,” he noted. Hussein noted Kipchoge graduated at the right age in marathon running, saying: "A lot of young athletes are moving to road running at an early age and thus suffer from burnouts but Kipchoge moved up at the right time and is currently at his peak.” Wakiihuri, who is also a former Commonwealth Games Marathon champion termed the event historic and a boon for Kenyan Athletics: "As a nation, we should be proud of his achievements and it will bring honour glory to the nation,” said Wakiihuri. Wakiihuri noted that should the attempt go through, Kipchoge will have raised the country's athletics prowess for years to come. "If he is successful, he will have set the bar very high for all aspiring athletes in the country,” said Wakiihuri, who is also First Lady Margaret Kenyatta's coach. Wakiihuri said with the development of science in the sport, he is confident that Kipchoge can run under two hours. "Athletics has become a scientific sport and with the innovation and developments in the sport lately, its possible to run under two hours,” he added. Wakiihuri added that he has a race planned for this weekend where they will dorn  1:59 kit to show their support for Kipchoge.