Residents of Mai Mahiu have asked the government to upgrade the link road to the local SGR station, saying the terminus is inaccessible. Local leader Benson Mungai said passengers who sought to travel via the newly launched train were instead asked to seek services from the Suswa station, located about 30km away. President Uhuru Kenyatta launched the Phase Two A of the 120km stretch from the Nairobi terminus in Syokimau to Suswa in Narok last week. Mungai said it was a waste of resources for the government to commission a modern railway station only for passengers to be referred elsewhere. “We saw the train here on Saturday and Sunday and only dropped passengers here while those wishing to board it are told to travel all the way to Suswa in Narok county. It is unfair,” Mungai said. He said the government lied to Nakuru residents that the train services would benefit them yet all services have been taken to neighbouring Narok county. “The President disputed reports that this railway was heading to nowhere and said it would assist residents to access the capital city with ease. We don’t understand why this station is closed," Mungai said. Elder Peter Ngigi said it was more expensive to travel by train to Nairobi from Mai Mahiu owing to the poor road network. Ngigi said it made no economical sense to spend more than Sh500 to the station only to board the train at Sh100 to Nairobi. Matatus charge about Sh200 for the same journey. Ngigi asked the government to upgrade links roads to make movement easier. Resident Freshia Njoki asked the government to provide electricity villages surrounding the station. “The station has a transformer that can be used to power the four villages and as the host community, we ought to benefit from government projects near us,” Njoki said. During Mashujaa Day celebrations, Nakuru county commissioner Erastus Mbui promised that the road linking the Mai Mahiu SGR terminus would be rehabilitated. “Plans are underway to construct a road from the Mai Mahiu-Narok road to the newly opened SGR station in Mai Mahiu,” Mbui said.  edited by peter obuya