Interior Chief Administrative Secretary Patrick Ntutu was yesterday told he cannot represents his boss Fred Matiangi' before a parliamentary committee. Members of the Committee on Administration and National Security sent Ntutu away, saying the Constitution mandated the CS to appear before them in person. Chairman John Waluke instructed the Ntutu to inform Matiang'i that he is expected to appear before them on Tuesday without fail. "It has been two years since he was here. Inform the CS that the committee has resolved that he must appear before us in person," Waluke said. Ntutu had appeared before the committee prepared to answer 14 questions the MPs had asked the CS. He tried in vain to convince the MPs that there were questions that he could answer conclusively. "The CS is chairing a meeting of his Cabinet colleagues. I did not know that I should not have appeared but I have prepared answers to your questions," Ntutu said. He further said that the invitation letter from the committee did not indicate that the CS was to appear in person. MPs, however, maintained that the Constitution does not recognise the CAS. The legislators accused Matiang'i of taking the committee for granted and disregarding the law. Nyakach MP Aduma Owuor said the issues the MPs wanted to raise with the CS were serious and only Matiang'i could answer them. “Sending a person here means he does not respect the Constitution,” he said. Kanduyi MP Wafula Wamunyinyi said the committee would not allow Ntutu to respond to their queries. "We will not take you as the CS. The Constitution does not say a CAS can appear before committees," he reiterated. Ntutu further said that the CS is committed on Tuesdays and Thursdays as he meets colleagues and attends Cabinet meetings at State House respectively. But the MPs said they are busy on Wednesdays and declared that it is the CS who should reschedule his Tuesday meetings. "We should not be the ones adjusting our programmes to fit his timetable," Malava MP Malulu Injendi said . Injendi said committee members cannot miss sessions on Wednesday morning so that they create time for Matiang'i. They said it is very important for members to attend Wednesday sessions as they usually have other matters they want to execute during that period. Ntutu defended his boss saying he is a man who respects the Constitution and would show up before the committee whenever it is possible. In November last year, National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi sent a stern warning to Matiang’i over his conduct towards parliamentary committees. Matiang’i had disregarded two invitations from the National Security Committee chaired by MP Paul Koinange.