Members of Kieni Farmers’ Coffee Society have denounced the Commissioner of Cooperatives for exonerating their leaders of mismanagement after MPs directed him to probe the society. They protested against a report prepared by principal cooperatives officer Hesbon Kiura, and Cooperatives auditor Tharaka Nithi Lawrence Maganju after an inquiry into the society on instruction by the Commissioner of Cooperatives. The farmers objected to the findings of the duo that cleared the management committee of, among others, misappropriation of funds and abuse of office. They described the report as shoddy. The growers had accused the management of not being able to account for a Sh6.3 million debt waiver from the government. They said the misuse of funds was the reason for the low crop returns. They also claimed that the committee could not account for the expenditure and income from the society’s coffee farm and vehicles. The farmers further complained about the procurement of various services, jobs and the spending of Sh14 million by the management to construct the society's headquarters. Members had approved Sh7 million. The report, which was released in September, absolved the management of any malpractice, terming the allegations as of "no merit, without facts, and that those complaining were dishonest and undependable". But some farmers said the report departed from that of the Parliamentary Committee on Trade, Industry and Cooperatives, which ordered the commissioner to carry out the probe and thus raises more questions than answers. On Tuesday, the farmers accused the commissioner of disregarding their concerns about some of the society’s by-laws, which they said are not in tandem with the constitution. Farmer John Kathangu accused the probe team of lacking goodwill, adding that nothing in the report shows they visited the coffee farmers. He said they should have been accompanied by a valuer who could tell if there was value for money in the construction of the office block. “The commissioner failed to address the concerns of the farmers and we thus appeal to President Uhuru Kenyatta to intervene and order a razor-sharp inquiry into the New Kieni and all troubled coffee societies in Kenya,” Kathangu said. Erastus Nthiga, another farmer, said his complaint that the management had declared he is not a society member even when he has sufficient evidence was ignored. The probe took place after human rights activist Taratisio Kawe and coffee farmers Richard Kinyua, George Nyaga, Weru Kirutha and Erastus Nthiga petitioned the National Assembly, on behalf of society members, to probe the society. Following the investigation, the MP Kanini Kega-led committee recommended that the Commissioner of Cooperatives should inquire into the affairs of the society and the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission should probe the alleged mismanagement of assets and loss of coffee proceeds.