Police IG Hillary Mutyambai has told the Star in an exclusive interview that he reshuffled hundreds of senor and junior police officers countrywide because "a few had turned to crime and worked with criminals." It was the first time he elaborated on the reasons behind the reshuffle. "It is these few officers who have given the service a bad name," he said, warning that officers who break the force's Standing Orders would be dealt with accordingly. Mutyambai emphasised that most of hs officers are honest and disciplined. Most of the officers transferred had been one station for more than five years. Some had become too familiar with the residents and criminals and this had compromised their ability to fight crime, Mutambayi said. The IG said his decision followed months of extensive consultations with his senior officers. "All transfers were as a result of a bottom-up approach and wide consultations. I have spent a lot of time listening before making the changes," he said. The transfers mainly affected Nyanza, Western and Nairobi. Some Nairobi-based officers were transferred to far-flung areas like Northeastern. "We want fairness in the management and deployment of police officers because none of us is special. Our collective aim is to protect all Kenyans all the time," Mutyambai stated. The IG who took over the service six months ago has, unlike his predecessor Joseph Boinne, has avoided the media and worked behind the scenes. "What is important is that Kenyans are safe and going on with their work. It is not important how many times we are seen in the media. It is about an efficient system that works seamlessly to address emerging security challenges," he said. The former spy says he has been visiting different regions to assess the state of security and address the challenges they face. Last month in a mini-reshuffle, Central Regional Police Commander Judy Lamet was moved to police headquarters and named Director of Community Policing. Patrick Lumumba, who has been operating from the IG’s office, was then named new Central Regional Police Commander. The police boss also moved more than 200 junior police officers who were based at the Kenya Railways police command last week. In August Mutyambai reshuffled some staff at the Coast, which was triggered by the recent wave of violence in Kisauni, Nyali, and Likoni. It was also necessitated by a poorly coordinated war on narcotics. Edwin Mwamburi, who was in Rift Valley, was moved to the Western region and Ochola, who has been in the Coast region for less than a year, was replaced by Rashid Yakub from the Western region. Also moved was Coast Police Commander Johnstone Ipara, replaced by Augustine Nthumbi from Uasin Gishu county. (Edited by V. Graham)