The Nakuru assembly has questioned the move by the county to centralise all procurement processes. On Tuesday, four senior officers from the county government were put to task to explain the move, which the joint Budget and Finance committee said was against the Public Finance Management Act. On September 11, the governor’s office announced the appointment of two officials as director and deputy director for public procurement. In his communication to the media, he said Wachira was replacing Kevin Gitau in an acting capacity. The move led to the assembly summoning county secretary Benjamin Gichuhi, Finance executive Peter Ketyenya, Finance chief officer Muchina Gitau and Economic Planning chief officer Kennedy Momanyi. During the questioning, some officers disowned Grishon Githiomi’s appointment. “I have not seen the alleged letter to Githiomi’s appointment nor I’m I aware of the appointment in question. I only know Githiomi as the governor’s liaison officer,” the county secretary said. Githiomi had been appointed deputy procurement director. “Allow me to stick to what is in the Constitution. The position of deputy director procurement is not within the law. There are no documents from me as to Githiomi’s appointment,” Ketyenya said. Majority leader Moses Ndung’u (Elementaita) said centralisation of procurement was a policy matter that required approval by the assembly. Ketyenya said the move was made after consultations with the National Treasury. “A request was made to the PS National Treasury following low absorption rates of development funds in the previous four financial years. The treasury seconded a person to handle the position for which we shall provide secondment letters,” he said. He said the executive acted within the provisions of the Public Finance Management Act and the Public Procurement and Asset Disposal Act. However, after the grilling, the MCA’s called for further investigations as they were not satisfied with the answers given. “Have the procurement officers been moved to one location? If that shift was sanctioned by the cabinet since it is a matter of policy. Why did the Assembly not receive the same information in regard to the move?” Lakeview MCA Karanja Mburu asked. “The matter was purely administrative. I felt it didn’t meet the threshold to warrant a cabinet memo,” Gichuhi said.  