Divisions in Jubilee over footballer McDonald Mariga’s candidature played out on Sunday in Kibra as candidates intensified campaigns ahead for November 7 by-election. MPs allied to the two rival factions in the ruling party — Kieleweke and Tangatanga — tore into each other as they campaigned for ODM's Bernard 'Imran' Okoth and Mariga, respectively. ANC leader Musalia Mudavadiattended a service at Friends Church Ngong Road where he rallied the congregants to support his party's candidate Eliud Owalo. Kieleweke, led by nominated MP Maina Kamanda, joined a dozen ODM politicians at PCEA Church in Kibra where they drummed up support for Imran. Kamanda hit out at Tangatanga, accusing the MPs allied to it and DP William Ruto of ‘sneaking’ Mariga into the race to jeopardise the handshake against the President Uhuru Kenyatta's wishes. “We don’t want people to divide us. We are supporting Imran because he is the handshake candidate. People sneaked to State House and did what they did there. I want to say here that the heart and mind of the President are with Imran,” Kamanda said. The veteran politician claimed that his backing of the ODM candidate has the backing of the President. He accused those behind Mariga’s candidature of being anti-handshake and power-hungry individuals out to destabilise peace brought about by the truce between Uhuru and ODM's Raila Odinga Raila. Nairobi assembly speaker Beatrice Elachi and former Dagoretti South MP Dennis Waweru joined Kamanda in supporting Imran. Tangatanga held a rally at Laini Saba Grounds where they turned up the heat on Kamanda and his colleagues, terming them enemies of the party out to rock the ruling outfit from within. MPs Nixon Korir (Lang'ata), John Kiarie (Dagoretti South), Kimani Ichung’wa (Kikuyu), James Gakuya (Embakasi North) and Nominated Senator Millicent Omanga accused Kamanda and Gender CAS Rachel Shebesh of pretending to be the President’s mouthpiece. “Mzee Kamanda should now go home and look after his grandchildren. He is misleading our supporters that the President does not support our candidate. Mariga is the Jubilee candidate and the President is the party leader,” Gakuya said. Mariga rallied the youth to vote for him, promising to initiate projects that will transform their lives. “Even before the elections, we want to ensure that Kibra is lit. I will ensure every child get s bursary and our mothers must get good places for doing business,” he said. The former footballer promised to use international connections to bring top-class coaches and footballers to open football academies and talent centres in the slum. At the PCEA church, MPs George Aladwa (Makadara), Antony Oluoch, Jared Okello (Nyando), Caleb Amisi (Saboti), Babu Owino (Embakasi East), Nominated Senator Rose Nyamunga and ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna urged residents to support Imran. Imran pledged to continue with the good work his brother, MP Ken Okoth who died in July,  especially in education. He promised that every deserving child in the constituency will get bursaries. “When election approaches, we are told to get a leader from outside. That a leader cannot come from Kibra. I want to say her that leadership of Kibra must come from Kibra,” he said. (Edited by V. Graham)