Concerted efforts should be put to fight violence against women, Wajir county commissioner Loyford Kibaara has said. Cases of sexual violence, domestic violence, rape and defilement and murder have been on the rise in Wajir. On September 28 a woman was killed in the outskirts of Diif border town while herding her family's goats. Saida Omar who was in her early 30s was allegedly attacked by a stepson who has since crossed into neighbouring Somalia to hide from authorities. A week later in Hadado, Wajir East, Ethow Khalif was allegedly raped before being murdered. Her case was never reported to the authorities and the body buried within hours of the incidents. Two weeks ago, a five-year-old was allegedly defiled by a 13-year-old boy at Adam Awale in Wajir West. The boy has since been arrested and the case is in the children's court. All the cases have been confirmed by Wajir police. During Mashujaa Day celebrations,  local leaders and activists called for stern action to be taken against the perpetrators of violence. Kibaara told the Star in his Wajir town office, that efforts to stem violence against women require the support of all the stakeholders and the community. Kibaara said victims are willing to have their cases prosecuted in a court but it sometimes becomes difficult for the police to proceed due to a lack of witnesses and support from the community. "We know that most of these cases are subjected to maslah [alternative conflict resolution mechanism]. Unfortunately, you find that the violence meted on the victims are so grievous that they need to be prosecuted,” he said. He said there have been cases where witnesses have been intimidated and could not testify in court, ending suits prematurely. “It is time the community comes out and says no to GBV by allowing suspects involved to be taken through the due process of the law,” he said. Kibaara said that a gender-based violence steering committee will soon be formed comprising of members from the national and county government and activists. The aim will be to track cases related with GBV with the aim of ensuring that that they are handled to their logical conclusion. (edited by O. Owino)