The National Health Insurance Fund could go broke as early as next year when payouts to service providers exceed contributions, a panel of experts has said. The payouts increased from 61 per cent in 2014 to 86 per cent last year. By end of next year, the funds' two main schemes - the national and the civil servants' schemes - will be making losses, the panel appointed to assess the insurer's viability to offer Universal Health Coverage says. The NHIF reforms panel was appointed by Health Cabinet Secretary Sicily Kariuki in February and presented its findings last week on Thursday. The team's verdict is that the national insurer is broke and cannot deliver the UHC in its current state. "Everything held constant, projections for revenues and expenses for the national scheme show that the scheme is likely to start running deficits by 2020," the panel's report reads. The civil servants and the national police and prisons schemes will run deficits beginning 2022 or next year when operational expenses are factored. "The fund needs to be redesigned to improve efficiency. We have also proposed more effective oversight from the Ministry of Health, Parliament and counties," panel's chairman James Wambugu said. Over the years, NHIF has expanded its benefits package to attract more Kenyans to sign up. Private healthcare providers have also arm-twisted the fund to increase reimbursement rates, which the panel said is unsustainable. "Private providers are the main beneficiaries of NHIF payments, receiving over 80 per cent of all claims payouts," the report reads. A separate analysis of the panel's report notes that private providers are represented in the NHIF management board and have outsize influence. "Their influence on the insurer with regard to reimbursement rates represents what we will call here purchaser capture, a situation in which the actions of a purchaser are influenced by, and in favour of, healthcare providers," Edwine Barasa, a member of the panel, said. The fund will be the strategic purchaser for UHC, which means each Kenyan will need an NHIF card to access subsidised UHC services next year. The experts further proposed that the state should pay the Sh500 monthly premiums for poor Kenyans. CS Kariuki promised deep changes at the fund will begin before next year. "We have learnt that it is important to utilise a financing mechanism that delivers efficiency and also ensures the pooling of health risks and thus containment of health costs and reduction of inequity in access to health services," she said. The CS said they expect health facilities to serve more patients, as evidenced by the pilot in Kisumu, Machakos, Nyeri and Isiolo. "All four counties reported an increase in the number of patient visits, ranging from a 20-58 per cent increase. This demonstrates that there was indeed an unmet need," she said. Edited by R.Wamochie