A section of MPs from Western Kenya has demanded that the more 2,000 people evicted from Nandi county over a land dispute be allowed to resettle there. The MPs accused the Interior Ministry and the Judiciary of carrying out forceful evictions without regard to the plight of the families. Some of those evicted said that they had lived in the area for more than 40 years. In a visit to the area, the lawmakers urged the victims to stay put on the land until they are helped to rebuild their houses destroyed by bulldozers last week. “We are asking Deputy President William Ruto to ensure that these people are given back their land and helped to rebuild their homes before he comes to the western region seeking for votes from the Luhya community,” Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala said. Malala said they would meet Interior CS Fred Matiangi, CS for Lands Faridah Karoney and present the matter in Parliament. Also present were Nominated MP Godfrey Osotsi, Saboti MP Caleb Hamisi, Nominated Senator Naomi Shiyonga and ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna. They demanded that police who used live bullets during the evictions are punished. The MPs distributed food items and tents for use by the families who have now camped in the area. Most of those evicted from the land are from the Luhya community who say they bought the land procedurally. The leaders said the evictions were carried out because of a tribal and political agenda. “We welcome everyone to live in Western and indeed we have many communities there. We ask those behind such evictions to stop propagating the tribal and political agenda in Nandi,” Osotsi said. But Nandi Governor Stephen Sang has asked the political leaders not politicise the matter but handle it with care and respect to the court orders. Sang said the issue was not political or tribal and would be resolved. He deployed the county disaster response team to help the victims. The family of the late Kipkosgei arap Cheptulu has claimed ownership of the land insisting that the affected 57 families illegally invaded and settled on its 28 acres. The piece of land was registered in the 1970s  as Nandi/Kapkangani /1371-1384. Cheptulu’s family has been battling in court to have the families evicted terming them as squatters on the land. The case has been in court for more than three decades with counter appeals but the High Court recently ruled in favour of the Cheptulu family and ordered police to evict the families. The case was between Sammy Kiprotich and Clement Lagat who are sons to the Cheptulu family against Pius Isiaga and 57 others. Justice Mwangi Njoroge of Environment and Lands Court in Kitale issued the orders that led to the evictions from the land located near Kaptobongen in Nandi central. Kosgei and Lagat said they are registered administrators of the estate of their father and that the families did not purchase it as claimed. However the 57 families led by Pius Isiaga argued in court that they had valid agreements on the purchase of the land from its original owner. They showed the media copies of purchase agreements for the land. The evicted families had their houses destroyed by security agencies enforcing the court order. Some of the families claimed that the evictions were political because they were considered to be non-residents in the region. The MPs said houses, churches and schools were demolished during the operation last Wednesday night. One of the evictees dug up the grave of his father buried nine years ago and hung the skull on a tree nearby to protest against the evictions. He said that he had lived on the farm since his parents bought it. 