The National Environment Management Authority requires Sh18 billion to roll out various environmental projects in the next five years. Its 2019-2024 strategic plan launched on Thursday last week focusses on six key areas. They include environmental quality, protection and conservation; ecological integrity of ecosystems; climate change; environmental governance and coordination. Others are the green economy for sustainable development and institutional capacity. To improve the quality of the environment the authority needs Sh162 million in the financial year 2019-20. In 2020-21, Nema will need Sh 179.5 million, another Sh160.5 million in 2021-22, and Sh182 million in 2022-23. In the financial year 2023-24, the authority will need Sh163 million.  This means a total of Sh847 million will be needed to improve the quality of the environment. Nema's programmes in the last five years were guided by the 2013-2018 strategic plan.   Nema said slums were a major headache, causing pollution and heavily choking Nairobi River. Board chairman John Konchellah said delivering tasks in the strategic plan will help them achieve the goal set out in Article 42 of the Constitution. The article mandates the state to ensure that every person has the right to a clean and healthy environment. "The proposed programmes in the strategic plan will enhance environmental management and ensure a clean, healthy and sustainable environment for all," Konchellah said. Nema cites the successful ban on plastic carrier bags as a major milestone. The success is attributed to enhanced enforcement, strengthening of strategic partnerships and public goodwill and support. “The country now has a cleaner and healthier environment. The authority will continue to sustain the same in the new implementation period," Nema acting Director General Mamo Mamo said. Single-use plastic bags were banned in August 2017.  The possession of the bags now attracts a fine of Sh2 million to Sh4 million or a maximum jail term of two years, or both. Paper, cloth, canvas, sisal, papyrus bags or shoppers’ own bags are the alternatives. Kenyan is still grappling with how to handle poor-quality alternatives. Following the ban, the Kenyan market was flooded with non-woven polypropylene bags as alternatives. Some of the alternatives were of low quality. Unscrupulous traders have also been sneaking in bags from countries that have not banned plastics. Tanzania banned plastic bags June, Rwanda already banned them, but Burundi, Uganda and South Sudan have not done so. To effectively implement the Strategic Plan, the recruitment of competent saff will be given priority. The authority plans to hire and train 600 officers during the implementation period of the strategic plan.