Holders Vihiga Queens will be aiming to kill two birds with one stone when they play host to Makolanders FC in the Football Kenya Federation (FKF) women’s Premier League at Mumias Sports Complex today. The two-time champions are hunting for a minimum of three points to win the league in their remaining ties. At the same time, the Western Kenya side are looking to produce the top scorer and bag the 'Golden Boot'. Queens lead the league with 70 points with a goal difference of 77  and have three fixtures to go while their closest rivals Gaspo have 67 and an inferior score ratio of 36 with two games to end the league. Michael Okanga’s backline should brace themselves up for bumpy 90 minutes as Vihiga Queens’ chancy forward duo of Kenya internationals Teresa Engesha and Topistar Situma will be out to pile pressure upfront. Engesha ties with Kisumu All Starlets’ Mercy Airo at the top for the 'Golden Boot' race with 32 goals to her name, whereas Situma is fourth with 29. With Kisumu All Starlets remaining with a single game, Queens' pair must score more goals to increase their chances of taking the gong home. Placed 10th, City outfit Makolanders are not dispirited with their previous performances and are raring to go. Okanga has warned that they are not travelling to give away  'Golden Boot. “My players are equally tough and we are going all out for maximum points. It is going to be a tough encounter and we expect results of any nature. Our opponents' will have to work harder for the goals,” said Okanga, who will miss the services of midfielder Tabaka Chacha and forward Dorcas Vihenda. A win for Alex Alumira's line-up today will hand them their third title. This is regardless of the results of their outstanding two duels and the outcome of rivals Gaspo. There will be three other fixtures on the card tomorrow as Makolanders travel to Rift Valley to face Eldoret Falcons at University of Eldoret (UoE), Spedag host Thika Queens at Stima Members Club and Oserian Ladies invite Kibera Girls Soccer Academy. Okanga said: “There will be the element of fatigue on Sunday but we will give our best. It is not standard practice in top tier leagues but what do we do? Those are the fixtures and we will honour it.”