A section of Jubilee legislators allied to Deputy President William Ruto has vowed to shoot down the Building Bridges Initiative report if it will not deepen devolution. They said the delegation of power and resources to lower levels had helped open up even the marginalised areas in the country. They spoke on Friday in Mumias East and North Mugirango where Ruto launched the Wanga Technical and Vocational College and led an empowerment drive for Boda Boda riders respectively. Mumias East MP Ben Washiali said the country is not ready for proposals that are meant to frustrate devolution. “How come it has taken this long to prepare this report? It appears to have an ill-intention for this country,” Washiali said. West Mugirango MP Vincent Kemosi questioned if the BBI team got genuine views from Kenyans. "If the BBI committee got genuine views from Kenyans, why are they hiding their report? " Kemosi posed. Likuyani MP Enock Kibunguchi said the BBI report would have to be exposed for public assessment before a decision on it is made. The Ford-Kenya legislator added that he would support it if it would seek to add more money to the devolution cause. “Counties have proved to be engines of development. We, therefore, need more attention in terms of funds allocated to devolved units," Kibunguchi said. Sirisia MP John Waluke said BBI is a one-man game-plan that needs to be vehemently opposed. “The man behind it has perpetual hunger to change the Constitution for selfish reasons. There was no serious public participation in BBI, as a result, it is a useless report,” Waluke said. Kisii Deputy Governor Joash Maangi who accompanied Ruto argued that the country would not allow its leaders such as the President to be elected by MPs. He said that Kenyans should be left to elect their leaders from grassroots to the top. Teso South legislator Geoffrey Omuse said Kenyans would oppose any move that would deny them a chance to have a say in the formation of a government. “This key function cannot be delegated to a few leaders such as the MPs. It is the public’s democratic right to exercise their voting powers,” Omuse said. Former Kakamega Senator Bonny Khalwale said that they would back a review of the constitution which does not create more seats for some leaders and put more burden on the people. Ruto assured the public that the Government was committed to reviving Mumias Sugar Company. “There have hiccups in the revival of the factory; that is why we have opted to come up with a better strategy to rejuvenate Mumias Sugar,” he said. He said the government would support the County Government of Kakamega in a new master-plan that would give a new life to the struggling sugar firm. “We would find a lasting solution for the benefit of the farmers and the country. But we must also think of diversifying our agriculture to mitigate against any possible losses,” Deputy President said. The legislators' sentiments came a day after a section of leaders drawn from the Mt Kenya region promised to reject the BBI recommendation if it will propose for the Parliamentary system. The more than 30 legislators who addressed a press conference in Parliament buildings on Thursday, said they will reject a proposal to either elect a Prime Minister or President in Parliament. "Our people are underrepresented. What we want is one man one vote, " Ndaragua MP Jeremiah Kioni said.