Sports Principal Secretary Kirimi Kaberia has revealed the reason behind the construction of a new Sports Indoor Arena at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani. The arena, which is few metres away from the multi-purpose gymnasium was conceptualised last year with an aim of hosting smaller competitions and reserving the former for both national and international championships. “Last year, we resolved to build a smaller arena to host smaller competitions like chess, scrabble and board games. The bigger one which is expensive to maintain will be used for bigger championships. We will also refurbish the one at Nyayo Stadium so that we can have three fully functional arenas in the country.” Kaberia further gave a report on the ongoing renovation works at the Nyayo Stadium. The facility was closed in August 2017 for refurbishment but two years down the line, the 30, 000 seater capacity stadium is yet to be completed. “We decided to work on the interior and later finish on the other outer part. We are already done with the playing surface and we have fixed irrigation and drainage systems. We will next embark on the changing rooms before fixing the seats as well as the repair the running track.” Meanwhile, Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohammed hit back at her fierce critics who have been castigating her over the women's national netball team debacles in South Africa. The team was earlier on reported to have been stranded, generating fury from Kenyans who demanded an explanation from the ministry. However, it emerged that the team had enjoyed full government support contrary to the rumours. Amina, in a television interview with one of the local stations, defended her record for the four months she has been at the helm of the sports docket. She said she was on the receiving end of unfair criticism for the success various Kenyan teams have achieved through the support from her office. The former Education CS threatened to take unspecified actions to the perpetrators of the reports. “I have nothing to prove for I have been a civil servant for almost 35 years now and I have never siphoned government funds. We have supported teams which have represented the country before and we have witnessed them repay back by winning. The team to All Africa Games and that to the World Athletics Championships did us proud and we will continue to support them.” She added: “It is becoming terrible because when you do well you become a target.”