Jubilee Kibra candidate Mcdonald Mariga has assured all communities in Kibra represention in the CDF office. Speaking in a rally at Laini Saba ward  on Sunday ,He said CDF funds are meant to benefit all needy students. “No one should tell you he’s doing you a favour by giving needy students bursary. That is your right.I will ensure all communities representation in the CDF office,” he said. Mariga  pledged to assist small scale traders in Kibra  by constructing shades and providing capital. " it’s only through doing business that most of the Kibra residents can earn a living,"he said. The former football player  promised to expand his charity football talent search to the area saying it would help many youths who are talented in football and other disciplines. Embakasi North James Gakuya who was in attendance dismissed efforts by nominated MP Maina Kamanda and Chief Administrate Secretary Rachel Shebesh to campaign for the ODM candidate. He said The Jubilee Party leadership had endorsed Mariga. “Those are losers trying to go against Jubilee. That’s why they lost in the last elections,” he said. Other legislators that accompanied  him were  Dagoretti South MP John Kiarie, Nominated Senator Millicent Omanga,Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichungwa and Lang'ata MP Kikuyu MP  Nixon Korir.  Earlier in the day Mariga  embarked on a clean up exercise in Kibra. He was adorned in a green  T- shirt and blue jeans. Accompanied by a few youths, Mariga walked the slum as he greeted its residents and sold his agenda. "As we approach the November 7,Kindly consider voting for me,"he posted on Facebook. The Deputy president William Ruto hosted Jubilee candidate McDonald Mariga, grassroots leaders from Kibra constituency and some politicians at his Karen home on Friday. Those in attendance included Dagorreti South MP John Kiarie and Starehe MP Charles Kanyi who drummed up support for their candidate. Mariga said,"President Uhuru served me with water before handing me the Jubilee branded cap to seek the Kibra seat." President Uhuru Kenyatta and his Deputy William Ruto on September 19 assured him of unwavering support. Uhuru and Ruto met the former Harambee Stars player at State House on Wednesday and vowed to fully rally behind him in the race.