With litigation taking up to three years on average, Kenyans are increasingly embracing mediation, especially in the Family, Commercial and Civil divisions. So, what does it entail? Below is an explainer. What is mediation? Mediation is an alternative dispute resolution (ADR) process, whereby parties resolve their disputes with the assistance of a third party called a mediator. Who is a mediator? A mediator is an independent and neutral person who has the expertise to assist disputing parties reach a negotiated settlement. Why mediation? It is quicker and less expensive compared to solving disputes through the court process. How do cases end up in mediation? Once your case is filed in the designated courts/divisions, it will be screened to assess whether or not it can be referred to mediation. What is screening? This is a process by which cases are assessed by the Mediation Deputy Registrar or Magistrate or Kadhi, as the case may be, to find out whether or not they are suitable for mediation. Does every case have to go through screening? Every civil action instituted in court shall be subjected to mandatory screening, and those found suitable may be referred to mediation. What happens if a case is not referred for mediation? Your case will go back to court for processing in the usual manner. What happens when a case is referred to mediation? After the Mediation Deputy Registrar or Magistrate or Kadhi, as the case may be, makes a decision for your case to be referred to mediation, they will appoint a mediator and notify you of this decision within seven days. They shall, in consultation with the appointed mediator, schedule a date for initial mediation and notify you of the date, time and place. Can one select a mediator who is not on the register? Yes. However, the process of the mediation will not be under court-annexed practice directions. Nevertheless, the mediation settlement can be registered with the court for adoption and enforcement as a court order. What is expected of a party in a mediation process? File a summary of your case in a prescribed form, expected to attend mediation sessions and sign a mediation agreement. Can one be represented or accompanied during mediation? Yes. You can be accompanied by an advocate or any other person of your choice. If you are represented by an advocate or any person of your choice, they have to comply with the practice directions on court-annexed mediation. What is the role of an advocate in mediation before mediation? To assist the party in making informed decisions about the court-annexed mediation process before the process begins. Also, to encourage the client to take responsibility for resolving the dispute, consistent with the principle of self-determination in mediation. And during the mediation? To acknowledge the client’s role by letting them participate fully in the mediation process. How long will a case take in mediation? Your mediation proceedings will be concluded within 60 days from the date the mediator is appointed. However, this period may be extended for a further 10 days. What happens when mediation is concluded? If parties reach an agreement, they will sign the mediation agreement and file it with the Mediation Deputy Registrar or Magistrate or Kadhi, as the case may be, within 10 days. If no agreement is reached, the mediator will notify the Mediation Deputy Registrar or Magistrate or Kadhi, as the case may be, after which the case will be processed by the court in the usual manner. Can anybody use mediation proceedings to another party’s disadvantage? No. All communication exchanged or made during mediation is confidential. It is not admissible as evidence in any current or future cases in any court. In what circumstances can information given during mediation proceedings be disclosed? If that information relates to child abuse, child neglect, defilement, domestic violence or related criminal or illegal purposes. How will the mediation agreement be enforced? It will be filed with the Mediation Deputy Registrar or Magistrate or Kadhi, as the case may be. It will be adopted and enforced as a judgment or order of the court. Can one appeal against a judgment or an order arising from mediation? No. One cannot because a judgment or an order arising from a settlement was arrived at from a settlement generated by the parties. What happens if one doesn't comply with mediator’s directions or fails to attend mediation sessions? The mediator will file a certificate of non-compliance, based on which the court may: order that you attend further mediation session; strike out your pleadings; order that you pay costs; or make any other appropriate order. What if one needs to get interim remedial measures from the court? There is a Mediation Duty Court that handles interim applications and gives appropriate reliefs. Note that referral of cases to mediation does not operate as an automatic stay of any orders previously issued by the court in the matter.