A second suspect has been arrested over the recent murder of a Machakos catholic priest’s recent brutal murder. The detectives from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations on Thursday nabbed Solomon Mutava, 44, who is said to have driven the slain Father Michael Maingi’s car from Embu to Kilifi after his killing in cold blood. A detective from the DCI’s Serious Crimes Prevention Unit on Thursday disclosed that a suspected murder weapon (a sharp knife) was recovered from a pit latrine at Gategi shopping centre in Mwea where the main suspect in the case, Michael Mutunga, had rented two rooms. “Bloodstained clothes belonging to Mutunga, which he had tried to wash, were also found and taken to the government’s chemist for further forensic analysis,” he confided to the Star. The SCPU undertakes investigations on serious crimes including homicide, narcotics crimes, human trafficking, money laundering, terrorism, economic crimes, piracy, organized crimes, and cybercrime among others. The detectives on Wednesday exhumed the body of Fr. Michael Maingi Kyengo- a priest based at Thatha Parish in Machakos County - after he was reported missing on October 8. The DCI detectives through forensic investigations were able to locate the body along Mashamba River in Makima location, Mbeere South. One suspect; 25-year-old Michael Muthini Mutunga, who is suspected to have kidnapped the priest, killed and then buried his body at the said place, is in  custody helping detectives in further investigations. The body was found stashed in a sack. Another police source divulged that preliminary investigations indicated that the deceased might have been strangled and his throat slit before his body was buried. The body, which was wrapped in a polythene bag and put in a sack, also sustained deep cuts. “The body is so mutilated that detectives will need to conduct a DNA test for positive identification,” he said. The body was removed to Montezuma Monalisa Funeral Home in Machakos where an autopsy was done on Thursday in presence of the deceased’s mother and siblings. Mutunga, 25, who is being treated as the chief suspect in the murder was found with the deceased’s car, mobile phones, and other documents. He is the one who led detectives to the body. Though police are yet to unravel the motive of the man of cloth’s murder, there are speculations that another priest, the deceased’s colleague might have been involved. It is believed that police could have seen text communication between the main suspect and another priest suspected to have plotted the whole murder. According to a source, the detectives were following leads that the two priests could have differed over a woman and money. A reasonable amount of money is said to have been drawn from the decease’s bank accounts.