A section of employees at the Turkana University College want their principal  Ekamais Akuja removed on grounds of corruption, harassment and high-handedness. But Akuja has dismissed the allegations, saying issues at the institution have been resolved.  The university is a constituent college of Masinde Muliro University. “Those issues are nonsense and if you are a journalist then we don’t engage with people like you. We finished those issues you are talking about,” Akuja said on the phone then hung up. The EACC has already taken up investigations at the university following complaints from staff and the university council. The employees have questioned why the university council chaired by Mussolini Kithome wrote to Akuja listing 15 complaints against the principal. The college has spent about Sh25 million on trips locally and abroad by Akuja. Kithome said yesterday that he had written a letter to Akuja and other complaints have since come up. “On several occasions, some members of the council and myself talked to you with the hope that you would change your attitude and approach in the performance of your duties but to no avail,” Kithome said in the letter. The principal is accused of travelling to many places including abroad without producing back to office reports as part of a requirement for prudent management. The council has accused Akuja of failing to adhere to Public  Finance Management regulations. He allegedly went against the council's advice and paid Sh5 million to a contractor for a stalled project. Akuja also allegedly irregularly paid another Sh900,000 for the development of a strategic plan that was not done. “You never provided adequate and satisfactory explanations to audit queries raise such as the unexplained large sums of money that were withdrawn from the TUC bank accounts without any supporting documents,” read the council's letter. The letter calls Akuja a liability to the university because of his “laissez-faire management style, free reign leadership, arrogance and casual approach in dispensing his duties”.