ODM candidate  Imran Okoth has pledged to improve the education and economic status of Kibra if elected. On Tuesday, he also said he will elevate Kibra to prosperity through an online job linkage portal. With Kenya's largest slum sitting right at the centre of the constituency, Imran in his manifesto on Tuesday said he will also embark on school projects. Victor Hugo's quote 'Build a school, close a jail' was something that the late  Kibra MP Kenneth Okoth said often. His brother, Imran, is also keen to ensure that Kibra constituents have better schools. He pledged to continue his late brother's education legacy by completing construction of Kibra Secondary School. Imran will establish a Technical and Vocational Training centre and renovate more public primary schools to ensure that they are learner-friendly. The Kibra aspirant promised to build ablution blocks in schools with large pupil populations. "Equitable distribution of NG-CDF Busary funds and scholarships," ODM party wrote on Twitter on Tuesday. Imran pledged to enhance access to technical training programmes through bursaries. Other promises he made are to ensure fair distribution of Uwezo fund to youth, women and PLWDs. Imran also promised to hold quarterly jua kali trade fairs and facilitate accreditation of trained artisans. In eight days, more than 1118,000 registered voters of Kibra constituency are expected to vote one of the 24 candidates to be the next MP. The by-election was occasioned by the death of Ken Okoth, who succumbed to cancer. Other candidates seeking the Kibra parliamentary seat are Jubilee's McDonald Mariga, Ford Kenya's Butichi Khamisi and ANC's Eliud Owalo. Should  Imran become Kibra MP, he will join a list of individuals who have taken up leadership from their relatives. Others include Kitui West MP Edith Nyenze, who took over from her husband, Francis Nyenze, after he passed on after the 2017 General Election; Homa Bay Senator Moses Kajwang’ who took over from his brother, Otieno Kajwang and Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jnr, who took over from his father following his death in 2013.