West Pokot leaders have opposed the national government's closure of unsafe schools with poor infrastructure, saying it should swiftly fix schools. Speaking to the Star on Monday, Senator Samuel Poghisio said the move will bar many children from education. He urged the government to set aside funds to swiftly improve infrastructure in the substandard schools. He said public schools are managed by the national government and it’s a national mandate to ensure schools are up to standard. “The national government has done little to improve infrastructure in schools and it’s in bad faith to close schools that parents and leaders have started. And yet it’s their mandate to ensure students learn in conducive environments,” Poghisio said. He asked the government to increase allocation for building schools in marginalised counties since they were left behind for a long time and now parents have want education for their children. He said education was not devolved and asked the national assembly to pass laws to improve infrastructure in registered schools. “We should ensure that already registered schools have the required equipment and infrastructure before setting up others,” he said. However, the senator also well-wishers to help improve school infrastructure to enable many children to enroll. He said the county has high illiteracy levels and closing schools will worsen the situation. The illiteracy rate in West Pokot is 67 per cent. “The government should give us time to improve infrastructure in the affected schools instead of shutting them down,” he said. Twenty-nine schools have been closed in the county after and 31 have been issued with closure notices. This follows Education CS George Magoha’s directive to close unsafe schools. On Sept 23, part of Precious Talent Academy in Nairobi collapsed, killing eight pupils and causing a national outcry. Sikom (Pokot word for coming together for a good cause) peace network programme manager Joseph Akaule asked the government to give marginalised counties time to set up permanent structures. Akaule said, "Most marginalised counties are moving from cattle rustling to book rustling and it will demoralise many parents who had taken children to schools." “We have seen a sharp increase in children enrolling in schools and government closure is denying the children their right to education,” he said. He asked the NG-CDF and county government to chip in and help set up improved infrastructure in crumbling schools. (Edited by V. Graham)