Some 66 individuals who were brutalised by the police as they sought a missing colleague and his gun in Lamu East have demanded compensation. The 66 want payment for the pain inflicted and the permanent scars some of them bear. Constable Hesbon Okemwa went missing on October 2 as he headed to his duty post at the Tchundwa Police post at around 5am. His mutilated body was recovered 400 meters inside a forest in Kizingitini on October 5. His G3 rifle loaded with 60 rounds of ammunition is yet to be found. A report by the Muslims for Human Rights lobby shows residents of Tchundwa, Myabogi, Mbwajumwali, Kizingitini and Mtangawanda villages were beaten up by police between October 2 and October 5. Muhuri says some of the villagers have been maimed for life and will have to depend on relatives for things they previously would do. Residents have told of great suffering at the hands of the police officers. Omar Nadhiru whose hand was broken during the police beatings says he can no longer work and provide for his family. “A group of police officers accosted us on the Siyu Road as a rode on a boda boda.  They made us lie down and beat us with the butts of their guns and left us for dead,” he said. Nadhiru said the cops broke his hand because he had used it to shield himself. Mohamed Yusuf had his hands broken and also suffered serious wounds in his legs and ribs. Speaking from his hospital bed at the Faza hospital, Yusuf said the officers intended to kill him. “I am more worried about what becomes of my family as I can’t provide for them now that I am in this state. Now I will never be able to use my limbs again. They should pay me for all these and what the future holds,” Yusuf said. He wants the officers also held accountable for what they did to him. Rehema Bwanaheri said the state must pay them for the violence meted out by the officers so as to deter similar situations in future. Police in Lamu have also been on the spot for allegedly refusing to process P3 forms for the residents. County police commander Muchangi Kioi has denied the claims. Without the document, it will be difficult for the aggrieved locals to sue the concerned police officers. Muhuri has asked Lamu county commissioner to provide the names of all the officers involved in the brutality or be sued for subverting the course of justice. 