Producers of e-waste such as computers, tablets and other large household items will be held responsible in the latest war against pollution. This became apparent on Monday as the country joined the rest of the world in commemorating International E-waste Day. The day creates awareness on the impact of e-waste on the environment. Environment CAS Mohamed Elmi presided over the event on behalf of CS Keriako Tobiko at Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) Centre, Utawala, Nairobi. The centre offers the service of awareness creation (training) and safe disposal of electrical and electronic waste (e-waste) in accordance with the waste regulations of the National Environment Management Authority. Elmi said the e-waste regulations, which are almost ready for gazettement, spell out the concept of extended producer responsibility. EPR aims to make producers responsible for the environmental impact of their products throughout the product chain; from design to the post-consumer phase. The government hopes the move will alleviate the burden on municipalities and taxpayers for managing end-of-life products, reduce the amount of waste destined for final disposal and increase rates of recycling. Globally, 50 million tonnes of e-waste are generated annually. Only 20 per cent is recycled, meaning 80 per cent is dumped in landfills, burned or illegally traded. Elmi said e-waste is a fast-growing stream of waste due to the increasing access to affordable information, communication and technology equipment. "In the global e-waste monitor 2017, all countries in the world generated a staggering 44.7 million metric tonnes of e-waste in 2016 and the number is expected to increase to an estimate of 52.2 million metric tonnes by 2021," Elmi said. According to the Communication Authority, the high rate of e-waste accumulation in Kenya is caused by the influx of cheap short-life products, mainly from Asia. In 2016 for example, $15.5 billion (Sh1.5 trillion) worth of Chinese phones was shipped into the country. UN's Global E-waste Monitor 2017 estimates that every person in the world has at least 6.1kg of electronic waste to dispose of today. This figure is expected to grow to 6.8 kg per person in 2021, enough to fill 10,510 buildings the size of Times Tower in Nairobi, which is 140 m tall. Some Kenyans, however, eke a living through the extraction of valuable items from e-waste. The CAS said after the extraction, other parts are thrown away, polluting the environment and water bodies. Currently, there are four companies registered by Nema to handle e-waste in the country. These are Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Centre, Sinomet Kenya limited, Sintmund Group and E-waste Initiative Kenya. Safaricom has already allowed their 43 shops to be e-waste dropping points. Director for Environment, Education and Public awareness Ayub Macharia said the companies extract useful items from the waste. Hazardous wastes will, however, be shipped out to countries with the capacity to handle them. Macharia said most Kenyans do not know the effects of e-waste. WEEE founder Tom Musili said e-waste and industrial waste were killing more than any known disease. "We are handling 25 tonnes per month yet we have a capacity to handle 75 tonnes," Musili said. Musili said the shortage is because Kenyans are unknowingly keeping e-waste in their homes. Edited by R.Wamochie