The Kenya Certificate of Primary Education exams enters the second day today in an exercise widely termed successful on its first day. By press time on Tuesday, Kenya National Examination Council CEO Mercy Karogo told the Star they had recorded zero cases of examination malpractice. Karogo said coordination of various government agencies had ensured there was no pre-exposure,  the biggest loop in exams integrity. This is despite heavy rains and floods resulting in delays due to late delivery of exam papers in some parts of Turkana, Coast and Northern Kenya. "The first day was a success. The exam was more than 95 per cent positive outcome and we hope to maintain if not better this in the remaining days," Karogo told the Star. In Kilifi county, more than 400 candidates were evacuated in two subcounties to nearby exam centres after their schools flooded. The exams end on Thursday. On Tuesday, the pupils sat their Mathematics, English and Composition tests, which was available in three variants — normal print, large print and braille — the last two catering for learners with visual impairment. On Wednesday, the learners will take science in the morning hours, Swahili in the mid-morning and Insha test later in the afternoon. As has been the case in the last three years, senior government officials oversaw the dispatch of the exam papers to various centres. Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha was in Mombasa, while his Tourism counterpart Najib Balala was in Nairobi. Transport CS James Macharia was in Murang’a, while his Public Service colleague Margaret Kobia oversaw the opening of containers in Meru. Interior CS Fred Matiang’i was in Gilgil while his ICT minister Joe Mucheru was in Nyeri. Various Principal secretaries and chief administrative secretaries took part in the distribution of exam materials. Matiang’i said security will be tight during the exam period noting that he is in constant communication with different security officials across the country. “We are in constant touch with the rest of the country. I have spoken to all regional commissioners in the country and I have also been in touch with the Inspector General on an hourly basis since 4am this morning. I can assure you that there is no challenge and we are fine and ready to start exams,” he said. He also underscored the need for responsibility towards children. “We should do the best we can and put our best foot forward. This is an opportunity we have to raise and support our children who are the future of this country. There is no serious society on earth that does not pay attention to its children,” he said.