Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua is on the spot after the disclosure that his office ordered the release of edible oils of doubtful standard. A multi-agency team tackling contraband and counterfeits seized 58 containers with the oil and detained the same at the Mombasa Port on suspicion it was unfit for consumption. The agencies detained the consignment on grounds the oil did not meet the required levels of vitamin A, in this case, either deficient or in excess. But on July 18, K.W. Kihara on behalf of the Head of Public Service vide letter ref OP/CAB.9/83A, directed the Kenya Bureau of Standards (Kebs) to release the consignment to John Mburu Gichuhi – the importer trading as Master Freighters Ltd. The entire consignment was released despite Kebs test on the product showing that 10 containers did not comply with the set standards of 20-40 mg/kg vitamin A. Some had vitamin A as high as 69mg/kg. While it is possible to fortify oils further and increase vitamin A content, anything above 40 is considered detrimental and can cause death. In the letter tabled before the National Assembly Trade committee chaired by Kieni MP Kanini Kega, the officer argued that the continued detention of the cargo – which arrived in May 2018, was depicting the government negatively among its people. “This is to request you to clear this consignment of 58 containers of edible oil. You may liaise with other state agencies involved with a view to ease the financial burden of the trader. “The continued detention is further increasing storage and other costs which will be borne by the importer and the consumers,” the letter says. Kihara reprimanded Kebs for failing to release the oil even after tests confirmed that the oil complied with the Kenyan standards regarding vitamin A fortification. “You should have accordingly informed other government agencies involved in the management of cargo and commend its immediate release,” he said. After receiving the order, Kebs wrote to Trade Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya requesting a waiver of the standards for edible oils. Munya, through C.W Mahinda, granted the waiver on the enforcement of fortification of edible oils as the same was only applicable to shipments already in the country. The committee had sought an explanation from Kebs on the circumstances under which it released 47 containers of the oil to the market. Kega and other members said the entire lot would have been released had MPs not stopped further distribution of the unfit oil. “The tragedy is that we don’t know what was released after the second testing,” Kega said, even as Nyeri Woman Rep Rahab Mukami claimed the trader confessed to securing the release of all the containers. MPs queried why Kebs ignored the Ministry of Health’s advice against refortification. The ministry advised that refortification would be in contravention of the public health principles and intents. “Being aware of the local requirements and being sensitive to paperwork therein before importation, and the acceptable value addition of Vitamins A for consumers' benefit, the Public Health department will not take part in this exercise,” Kepha Ombacho, the director Public Health, told Kebs in 2018. “We can conclude that the release was not in the interest of Kenyans but for commercial interest, with the intent of harming the consumers,” Wilberforce Oundo of Funyula said. “Are we living in a situation where commercial interests supersede the health of Kenyans?” Aldai MP Cornelly Serem asked. He said Kebs must have acted under pressure. In what may further expose cracks in President Uhuru Kenyatta’s efforts to rid the country of counterfeits and contrabands, the MAT chair Wanyama Musiambo – also deputy head of Public Service, said he was not aware of the release order. He told MPs on Tuesday that the team had not discussed the matter of edible oils and as such it believes that all the seized containers are still at the various ports where they were detained. “In the committee I chair, we have not discussed the issue of edible oils. I just have one document which lists the container numbers, their size, importer and location of the containers. “This is a document prepared by the commissioner for customs. We have not sat and discussed to release the containers. That is why you will see that their locations are in Mombasa," Musiambo said. The President has warned those in trouble with agencies against reaching out to state officers to intervene in their cases. At the same time, the National Standards Council set conditions that the oil be released after consultation with the Public Health department and that the importers withdraw cases in court over the detained product. The cases are still pending, even as lawmakers said they would recommend that action be taken against individuals behind the irregular release of the containers. Kebs boss Bernard Njiraini defended the agency, saying the Health Department did not give them the way out after advising against further fortification. “We took it up as our responsibility since the number of products involved – valued at Sh1.3 billion, was significant,” the MD said. The importers sought speedy release saying that due to time lapse since importation, liability lies with them as the exporters are not willing to accept the goods.