The resettlement exercise targeting hundreds of families living in the recently gazetted industrial park in Mai Mahiu Naivasha has kicked off. The management of Kedong ranch where the majority of the affected families have been living has donated 4,000 acres to the government towards the exercise. A government delegation led by the PS for Industrialisation Francis Owino recently toured the land. Naivasha subcounty commissioner Mathioya Mbogo told the press after the tour that the demarcation of the 4,000 acres had started. He said that they were verifying the beneficiaries before relocating them to pave way for the project which will be located on 1,000 acres. “The fencing of the land earmarked for the dry port is done and we have embarked on the move of relocating all those within it,” he said. Mathioya added that the government was seeking another 35 acres for the construction of the Inland Container Depot near the dry port. “The government has already engaged the management of Utheri Wa Lari for an extra 35 acres for the inland container depot,” he said. The commissioner reiterated that the government had banned any new development around the industrial park until a master plan was formulated by the national and county governments. Mathioya said the special economic zone will be a ‘city with a county’ adding that any development on the area must be controlled. “We do not want to see shanties and structures that do not fit the set standards and if anyone dares to do the same we will bring it down,” he said. Meanwhile, the over 1,000 families who face eviction in Kedong ranch to pave way for the construction of a geothermal plant have called for dialogue. The families mainly from the Turkana community said that they were ready to leave the land but want their grievances addressed. Spokesperson Justus Ekeno said the majority of them had worked on the ranch for years and knew no other home. “We fully understand that a private firm has acquired land to construct a geothermal plant and are we are asking is dialogue between us and the management of Kedong,” he said. 