Nyeri Senator Ephraim Maina has said the government is to blame for the problems in the tea sector. The senator yesterday said leaders from Central and other parts of the country have over the years been dissatisfied with the direction the tea sector was taking with the government reluctant to address the issues. "I have always said we need to restructure KTDA, streamline its management, give the farmer a bigger say in the voting system but nothing has been done yet," Maina said by phone. He said tea farming has taken the same route the coffee industry took 20 years ago. "Today, coffee farming is dead and sadly tea farming is headed in the same direction,” Maina said. KTDA chief executive officer Lerionka Tiampati said in Nairobi yesterday that farmers can either keep or uproot the crop, a remark Maina described as unfortunate. "It clearly shows they have no time for the farmer; they are not interested in addressing the cries of the ordinary farmer," he said. On Wednesday, a section of MPs demanded that President Uhuru Kenyatta cracks the whip on Cabinet Secretaries sleeping on the job as farmers suffer. The MPs accused Trade Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya of failing the President in the manner he is handling the marketing of tea and coffee resulting in farmers fetching reduced prices every year. The leaders, mainly from Mt Kenya and Rift Valley, also faulted Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri for allowing the exploitation of poor farmers at the expense of known brokers making a kill at Kenya Tea Development Authority. The MPs were addressing a press conference at Parliament building.  They said they will do everything to protect the plight of farmers hinting of a possible censure motion against some CSs. Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria said, “Where you see the smoke there is fire”  when asked if sponsoring the impeachment of particular Cabinet Secretaries is part of their strategy. “We are demanding better prices for our tea; we want the government to start taking our farmers seriously,” Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro said. Nyeri Woman Representative Rahab Mukami accused Munya of ignoring a record five summons from the Trade industry and promised to raise in the House so that Speaker Justin Muturi can have the Cabinet Secretary summoned. Mathira's Rigathi Gachagua said President Kenyatta means well for both tea and coffee farmers but is being sabotaged by some CSs. “Since Peter Munya was given the Trade docket, he has never set foot in any tea factory to engage with the farmers. All they do is to appoint task forces of technocrats who have no idea. We voted for this government to a man yet the CS given the mandate is sleeping on the job,” he said. Soy MP Caleb Kositany lamented that the prices continued to fall when data showed that the consumption of Kenyan tea has steadily been on the rise. This year’s prices are the lowest in five years. At least 615,000 small-holder farmers received Sh30 per kg bonus compared to 2017/2018 when the bonus was Sh65.10 per kg. Countrywide, the farmers were paid Sh57.4 billion. The highest bonus was in 2016 when farmers earned were paid Sh61.99 billion. This was Sh70 per kg, highest in five years. Last year the highest bonus was paid by Murang'a Tea Factory, where growers earned Sh52.10 per kg. In Meru region, payments were between Sh26.05 and Sh35.10 a kilo. Rift Valley farmers last year earned an average Sh30 per kg. Farmers in Kisii earned an average Sh23 per kg, which is likely to reduce to below Sh20. Runyenjes MP Eric Muchangi said that farmers have resorted to uprooting tea and urged the government to save the sector. “Farmers are now uprooting tea. We do not want tea to go the sugarcane way.  The government should act now to save this sector,” he said. The leaders also called for radical reforms at KTDA to make it a farmers’ centred organisation where farmers are represented on a one-man, one-vote basis. 