Two hundred traders at the Lamu Municipal Market have been relocated to the Mkunguni Square in Lamu town to allow for expansion and upgrade of the market. The dilapidated old market is falling apart and the roof leaks, causing the loss of food and wares over several months when it rains. In February the Lamu county government announced that the old municipal market would undergo a Sh50 million upgrade and expansion to accommodate more traders. It will be funded entirely by the World Bank. Lamu is among 10 municipalities selected for theBank's  Sustainable Urban Economic Development Project. It aims to support fast-growing municipalities to develop sustainable urban economic plans and attract investment for critical infrastructure. Speaking in Lamu town on Monday, Lamu Municipality chairperson Omar Famau said the traders had to be moved as the contractor was ready to start work. Construction of the new market is expected to take eight months and be ready for use by mid next year. “We have moved them to Mkunguni Square ... The public should kindly bear with any inconvenience," Famau said. The new market will have more stalls, storage facilities and coolers for perishable products. It will have ramps and facilities for persons living with disability. It is to be the first one-stop market in the region where shoppers can get all products and services under one roof. The Swahili culture of Lamu will be reflected in the architecture. Traders complain, however, that Mkunguni Square is inconvenient as they have to close shop early whenever it rains and there are no coolers for produce. Trader Abubakar Shehe said, “The county has given us tents but they are barely enough. Many traders don’t have them and for them, when the rains start,it’s the end of business even if it's midday or morning. They need to speed up the market and do it in less than eight months. They said the area is too small for the large number of customers. “Donkeys haven’t given us peace since we moved here. Overcrowding means our wares are trampled. There's much inconvenience," Haroun Michuki said. The temporary market also lacks toilets and flies buzz around meat and fish for sale. raders also have to deal with the lack of toilets at the Square and also with too many flies that flock around meat and fish selling stalls. “We have to leave in search of toilets not to mention the flies because the square is very open,” trader Jamal Muhaj said. (Edited by V. Graham)