Nyandarua Governor Francis Kimemia is upbeat that the forthcoming Peer Learning and Experience sharing mission to be hosted by the county will benefit residents. The November 3-5 event will be held in collaboration with the Council of Governors, state agencies and the World Bank, among other stakeholders. It will bring together Finance executives and chief finance officers from the 47 counties, and several governors and senior state officers. The county will also host the Kikao Kikuu forum on November 7 in Ol Kalou Stadium. In a press briefing on Wednesday evening, Kimemia said Nyandarua will gain tremendously from the two events in terms of business, tourism and marketing among other things. Among other things, Nyandarua was selected to host the event owing to prudence financial management as the county got an unqualified report from the Auditor General for the 2017-18 financial year, Kimemia said. In June, the World Bank declared Nyandarua the best performing county under the Devolution Support programme. “The Kenya National Bureau of Statistics also declared Nyandarua the best-improved county and best investment destination,” the county boss said. Another good thing about Nyandarua, he said, is that the 2019 Miss World Kenya winner, Wavinya Maria, 18, comes from Kinangop. Kimemia said requisite materials and logistical support are being put in place to ensure guests get the best from the two events. A team from Uganda will also attend. "We shall show them everything. Our books shall be available for viewing and we shall conduct them to a tour of our projects for them to learn how projects are managed without losing public money," he said The more than 300 guests will be accommodated in at least 40 hotels in the county. This will not only boost business but also enable residents to learn more about improving the hospitality industry. Kimemia urged traders to ensure security and show hospitality and take advantage of the events to showcase and benefit from their talent. It will offer an opportunity for the youth to showcase and sell their artefacts such as woven and woollen items. The guests will have a chance to sample the tourist attraction sites. Nyandarua is home to Mau Mau war veterans and was a major battleground, particularly in the Aberdares, for the liberation struggle. Guests will be in a position to visit the famous Mau Mau caves and the Colonial Happy Valley homes. Lake Ol bolo sat, the only lake in Mt Kenya region, is also a major attraction site. Also on offer are numerous waterfalls in the Aberdares, including Karuru falls that plunges 273 metres below, and Nyahururu Thompson Falls, which is 74 metres. Nyandarua is also Kenya’s food basket and produces the best cut flowers for export. "As they go back to their homes, I am sure the guests will preach about Nyandarua good reputation, our wealth and resources," Kimemia said. (Edited by F'Orieny)