Othaya Medical College plans to introduce nursing and clinical medicine courses to increase its intake. The institution is housed at DECECE teachers College in Othaya and currently offers one course in medical records and information management. Othaya MP Gichuki Mugambi on Monday said the national government is, meanwhile, looking for land to build a campus of the Kenya Medical Training College. "We are negotiating with Dedan Kimathi University with a view of entering into a Memorandum of Understanding so we can start a substantive medical school at the hospital," he said. He said doctors will be treating patients at the referral hospital while teaching at the college. This will greatly help medical facilities as student-nurses will serve as interns while attending lessons so they ease work burden in the health facilities, Mugambi said. The MP said there are plans to purchase a Sh7 million college bus under a NG-CDF project. He spoke in Othaya during a public participation event to identify priority projects to be impelmented using NG-CDF cash for the next two years. The legislator added that since the operationalisation of the Othaya Level Six Hospital in early August, it has been able to conduct more than 35 major operations. Patients previously sought the services at Nyeri County Referral Hospital and other facilities outside the county. "The renal unit is also operational and people with kidney problems are undergoing dialysis at the facility. I know of some people who were earlier compelled to travel from Othaya to Nairobi to seek for the services," he said. The MP called on residents to be patient as the facility operationalise other departments. He said more consultants are being posted to ensure the smooth running of the facility. The hospital will be serving eight counties — Nyeri, Laikipia, Isiolo, Meru, Marsabit, Kirinyaga, Nyandarua and Murang’a. The hospital has hired 600 employees and plans to hire another 200 soon. It targets a workforce of 1,300 staff. Mugambi said the youth will be given priority for support staff slots when the jobs are finally advertised. (Edited by F'Orieny)