Residents of Muthwani Ward in Mavoko Constituency have petitioned Machakos governor Alfred Mutua asking him to keep his promises to repair local roads. The locals on Saturday said the poor states of the roads in the area are a big threat to pupils who are preparing for the national examinations. The residents said pupils have been forced to miss attending their classes for several days due to the ongoing roads that have rendered the roads impassible. "We are concerned by the fate of candidates who have prepared for years for both Kenya Certificate of Primary Education (K.C.P.E) and Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (K.C.S.E) as well as the examination officers that the examination officers,"read a statement to newsrooms. They said, " These candidates are likely to miss their exams given the inaccessibility of the roads especially in the recent weeks". According to the petition, governor Mutua had promised during the 2017 campaign period to deliver speedy quality development in the county. They said that efforts to repair Joska-Ndovoini-Muthwani using black cotton soil from 2015 has left the road worse off hindering free movement, especially during the rainy season. “We call on your government to tarmac Joska-Ndovoini-Muthwani road as outlined in your manifesto and the County Integrated Development Plan (CIDP). We also urge Mavoko MP Mr. Patrick Makau King'ola to deliver on the promises upon which we voted him into office,” the residents said. In the petition, the residents want the governor to form a county team to investigate the contractors and the county staff responsible for the upgrading of the road using black cotton soil. The ongoing heavy rains across the country will end in December, according to the Meteorological department. In the short-rains forecast, head of the Met department Stella Aura on Monday said the rains will be heaviest next month. Last month, the department accurately predicted the rains will begin in the second week of October in most places and end in December. “The distribution of rainfall in time and space is expected to be generally good over most places especially during October and the peak month of November,” she told the media on Monday at the Met headquarters in Nairobi.