A 41-year-old man has been killed in Ndori village, Homa Bay Town constituency, as they fought over a widow’s love. John Nyambok died on Tuesday morning after suffering serious injuries on Monday night during a scuffle with a village-mate over who should 'inherit' the widow. County police commander Esther Seroney said they had launched investigations as they look for the suspect. Residents said the two had been embroiled in protracted wrangles over who was suitable to take care of the woman, whose husband died more than two years ago. Neighbours said the men discovered that they had both had sex with the widow in her matrimonial bed. According to the Luo culture, a widow should get one partner to take care of her and her and her family and provide leadership. Elders said this was also meant to prevent promiscuity among widows so they do not have relationships with many men at the same time. In case a partner was irresponsible, a widow was free to end their relationship and get another man. It was also meant to bar them from getting married again and fleeing with the late husband's children. Elders say it was to protect family lineage. Against that cultural demand for one partner, however, the Ndori widow allegedly opted for two men at the same time. Both were infuriated after realising it. Each claimed that was his territory. They accused each other of unwarranted invasion. Their rivalry ended tragically on Tuesday morning. After meeting in the widow’s house on Monday night, they began trading insults. Nyabok was allegedly hit with a blunt object. He was rushed to Marindi health centre, treated and discharged. However, while at his home a few hours after leaving the facility, his condition worsened. He died hours later. An irate mob protested upon learning of his death. They carried his body to the attacker's home as they bayed for his blood. They turned to his property to vent their anger after realising he had fled. They torched four houses in the homestead. County police commander Esther Seroney said the suspect and his family fled after realising the mob was on its way to their home. The body was later taken to Homa Bay County Referral Hospital mortuary for postmortem. (Edited by F'Orieny)