Five Bungoma MPs have pledged to support Deputy President William Ruto's bid to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta in the 2022 elections. The lawmakers said they will mount a massive campaign for Ruto in the Western region. Dan Wanyama (Webuye West), Fred Kapondi (Mt Elgon), Mwambu Mabonga (Bumula), John Waluke (Sirisia) and Didimus Barasa (Kimilili) said that Ruto's development record in the region is unmatched. They spoke on Monday at Nasianda SA Primary School in Kibingei ward, Kimilili constituency of Bungoma. Ruto launched the construction of eight classrooms funded by Kimilili CDF at the school. Mwambu said that Ruto should be rewarded for the many development projects he has done to transform Bungoma and western region. “I have heard some allegations that we Tangatanga MPs and DP Ruto are sabotaging Luhya unity. That is not true. We are only giving our people the right direction politically,” he said. The lawmaker said that Bungoma will deliver 100 per cent votes to Ruto in the 2022 polls. “The one who is saying that we are sabotaging Luhya unity has given us a Luo as a candidate in Kibra by-elections,” Mwambu said He asked Luhya leaders to talk to each other to forge a way forward and reject selfish interests. “We have seen our schools, roads hospitals, electricity and infrastructure improved through Ruto. We will mobilise residents to vote for him,” he said. Kapondi said that Ruto was more of a brother to the Luhya community. The DP has stood with Luhyas for many years and residents will reward his good gestures by voting for him come 2022, he said. “Ruto is our only solution. Let no person come here tomorrow telling you that he is a Luhya and we should vote for him,” he said He said that Bungoma will be one of the strongholds of Ruto by 2022. Wanyama said that Western and Bungoma have lagged because of following ODM leader Raila Odinga blindly. Also present at the function were Senate Speaker Ken Lusaka and former Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale. (edited by O. Owino)