President Uhuru Kenyatta has dismissed claims that BBI is meant to create a position for him. "Mimi sitaki kazi mimi nimechoka. BBI ni kuhakikisha ya kuwa hakuna mKenya atamwaga damu katika nchi yetu," he said. This translates to: "I don't want any work, I am tired. BBI will ensure that Kenyans do not spill blood." Uhuru spoke when he officially commissioned the Nairobi expressway on Wednesday. The project was launched near Cabanas on Mombasa Road. "Na  hiyo bara bara tutafikisha pamoja na viongozi wengine.. msidanganywe jameni.. penda nchi yenu..mjipende nyinyi wenyewe..sina shaka ati tutaboa hii safari," Uhuru added. This loosely translates to: "We will complete this journey together with other leaders. Let no one deceive you. Love your country, love yourselves I have no doubt that we will mange to do this." Uhuru said Kenyans must be united for development to work. "Tusaidiane lakini tusimwage damu. Tushirikiane kwa sababu heshima sio utumwa (Let's help each other and let's not spill blood. Working together is not slavery)," he said. Deputy President William Ruto had said that the Building Bridges Initiative could be doomed. Ruto compared BBI to the Punguza Mizigo Bill, which has encountered resistance in counties where it has been debated. Ruto said a few people cannot sit in hotels and make decisions for the entire nation. Earlier, the Deputy President had vowed to oppose the report should it propose an expanded Executive. His argument is that Kenyans should not go to a referendum to create positions for certain people. The BBI team was formed in the aftermath of the disputed 2017 General Election, following a political truce between Uhuru and ODM leader Raila Odinga. Last month, Raila asked Kenyans to prepare for a referendum. He said he expects the team to change the system of government from presidential to parliamentary. Ruto has been at the forefront in opposing the referendum push, saying it is part of a callous plot for "some people to take power through the backdoor.