Members of Parliament have rejected a report on a fact finding mission on the welfare of migrant Kenyan workers in Saudi Arabia. In a heated debate last week, the legislators hit at the Defence and Foreign Affairs Committee over what they termed shoddy work. According to the MPs, the committee, led by Katto Ole Metitto, had failed in its mandate to investigate the real situation many Kenyan citizens have found themselves in. The committee formed a task force that traveled to Saudi Arabia amid efforts to witness some of the challenges Kenyans go through. But the task force was accused of adopting an entire policy document adopted by the Saudi government. Kimilili MP Didmus Barasa said it was a shame that an entire delegation would travel to Saudi to adopt a document without critically looking at real issues. “Mr Speaker, this was a matter of national importance. We propose that the committee relooks at the matter or an ad hoc committee be formulated immediately to investigate," he said. He said the report tabled by the committee does not give any guidelines how Kenya is protecting its citizens in Saudi. Barasa said the report failed to clearly indicate how many Kenyans are in Saudi Arabia, how many have been tortured, how many are in detention camps, how many are on the run and how many have come back both dead and alive. “Mr Speaker, if the report claims those who have found themselves on the receiving end were facilitated by unregistered agencies, did they find out how many these agencies are? Can they be traced?” he said. The legislator said despite the report failing to indicate how many Kenyans had been facilitated by such irregular agencies, it does not indicate where these Kenyans report their grievances. “There is no data on who has helped them; we cannot even tell out of the Kenyans in Saudi who does what, where and so on. We need specifications of job descriptions Mr Speaker,” he said. His sentiments were echoed by Siaya  MP Christine Ombaka who said despite Saudi Arabia being a preferred destination for Kenyans seeking employment, the market has sent cold shivers across the country. “We have seen and heard personal stories and experiences yet the report hasn't captured that. We might affirm that Saudi offers the best opportunities, especially to our youth, but who would want to travel to a death trap?" she said. "We haven’t been told anything about children born there, or their parents. Saudi is an Islamic state, is there any data on religious rights bearing in mind majority of travelers are non-Muslims,” Ombaka added. Her sentiments were echoed by the Kisumu Woman Rep, who said Kenya’s population comprises of 70 per cent of youth. Out of these, he said 80 per cent are not employed. “Mr Speaker let us not exchanges lives of our youth for employment in Saudi Arabia. The government mus protect its citizens. It is ironical for this committee to table such a report full of glossy measures yet many Kenyans are crying foul,” she said. It is estimated that some one million Kenyan youths join the job market annually, a situation that has left the government grappling with social and political conflict. The report had indicated that Saudi Arabia has an estimated 11 million foreigners as migrant workers out of whom 55,000 migrant workers are Kenyans. This, the report said is a minimal percentage compared to other countries. Sudan, Pakistan, Egypt and Afghanistan are among the leading countries with highest number of migrant workers.