The Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji has approved the prosecution of former Kasarani MP Elizabeth Ongoro over embezzlement of Sh48 million NG-CDF cash. Ongoro was on Friday summoned by EACC to shed light on a non-existent  Kasarani Girls Secondary School allocated the money when she was Kasarani MP. Already two suspects who served in the Kasarani NG-CDF tender committee have been arrested over the ghost project. Former Kasarani district development officer Kefa Omoi and ex-CDF committee member Jecinta Opondi have been questioned. The anti-graft agency has directed that the former lawmaker and 18 others present themselves to sleuths at EACC’s headquarters at Integrity Centre immediately. EACC has been conducting a probe into the embezzlement of Sh48,907,826 constituency funds and abuse of procurement laws by officials of  Kasarani NG-CDF. “The Commission established that the award of the contract for the construction of the school was made without due regard to the procurement laws. “The school does not exist and payments were made to different individuals and companies associated to the National Government Constituency Development Fund patron and committee members for services not rendered,”  EACC boss Twalib Mbarak said in a statement to newsrooms. The file was submitted to the DPP who upon review granted consent to charge 26 individuals and entities with various offences. Also to record statements include; Mwalim Rashid, Ruth Kanini Kitonyi (former Kasarani District development Officer), Silvan Onyango, Pamela Mudha, Nashon Odongo (former Nairobi provincial accountant), Claperton Ouda, Douglas Parshet, Vitalis Obunga Ogingo (former regional accountant, Nairobi), Ferdinand Masha Kenga, Maricus Otieno and Peter Aming. Others are Maurice Orongo, William Ogutu Weda, James Juma Ochieng, Peter Ongeyo, Charles Owino, John Owinga and James Dola. They will all face nine charges of conspiracy to commit an offence of corruption, misappropriation of public funds, abuse of office and engaging in a project without prior planning. Other charges are unlawful acquisition of public property and willful failure to comply with the law relating to procurement. DPP will also be pressing additional charges of dealing with suspect property and conflict of interest. 