A Nairobi family is appealing for assistance to clear a Sh587,000 bill at Kenyatta National Hospital incurred since the admission of their five-year-old daughter. The girl died on Thursday last week of a cancer condition diagnosed in August 2018 as auricular hemangioma. It had manifested itself as a tumour affecting the head since birth. She had been at KNH for six months. Medical reports show that the tumour kept growing. The child's mother, Diana Wangui, told the Star that they had sought treatment in far-flung medical centres like Loitoktok hospital before they were eventually referred to KNH. "We discovered that our daughter had a swelling at the back of her left ear and with time the swelling kept on increasing in size, "Wangui said. "That's when our journey to seek help from specialised medical practitioners started. We visited different hospitals like Loitoktok but they could not figure out what my daughter was suffering from. Later, they referred us to Kenyatta National Hospital where she was diagnosed with auricular hemangioma tumour that turned out to be cancerous," she said." However, the family was that the equipment required to perform surgery had broken down and her daughter could not be treated immediately. The private hospitals' option was too costly for the family. KNH said the tumour removal would cost between Sh100,000 and Sh150,000 while Nairobi Women’s Hospital charged Sh200,000-Sh300,000. The child was admitted to KNH for six months. She was kept alive with painkillers. The family could not raise the amount needed for surgery. Wangui said they received Sh56,000 from well-wishers which paid for scans and medical tests. They also bought minor items like diapers and fruits for the child. The family had unsuccessfully sought assistance from their MCA and MP.  Nairobi Governor  Mike Sonko promised to help but this remained just that - promise. "I reached out to my area MCA and MP and every time I called them they told me that they were in communication with the Nairobi governor and that he had promised to help." The family has so far raised only Sh20,000 for the hospital bill. Well-wishers can contact Diana Wangui on 0721 870 959/ 0722 857 003.