The Kimira Oluch irrigation scheme undertaken in Homa Bay is expected to boost food production in Nyanza. The Kimira Oluch Smallholder Farm Improvement Project (KOSFIP) covers 3,642 acres that cut across Karachuonyo and Rangwe constituencies. It targets more than 3,000 farmers. The Sh5.6 billion project is undertaken by the national government through funding from the African Development Bank. It had been delayed for nine years because of financial constraints but is finally set for completion in the next five months. It is 90 per cent complete and some farmers are already reaping the benefits. About 197 acres are already under rice farming. The works include channelling water from rivers Awach, Kibuon and Tende more than 10km away onto farms. On January 21, then-East African Community and Regional Development PS Susan Koech toured the site and said the funding hitches had been addressed. The project is part of the national government’s food security plans, which is one4 of the pillars on the Big Four Agenda. The others are manufacturing, affordable healthcare and housing. Besides food production, it will create jobs for hundreds of young people. Crops to be grown include rice, maize, sorghum and horticulture. “The government will offer training and exchange programmes to farmers on how best they can utilise the project to get more produce,” Koech said. Karachuonyo MP Adipo Okuome said the project exploits the agricultural potential in the region to reduce poverty. If put to good use, it will enable farmers to supply their produce to other parts of Nyanza and even the country. It will also uplift smallholder farmers so they get full economic benefits. “The area is fertile and good for farming. The only problem for farmers has been acute water shortage that the project is intended to address,” Okuome said. He urged farmers to use water efficiently to increase their yields and income. His Rangwe counterpart Lillian Gogo commended the government for putting in place necessary measures towards the project’s completion. “Let our people fully embark on farming through this project. I’m sure farmers will not lack market for their produce,” she said. The legislator urged Homa Bay leaders to work together and build industries so farmers can add value to their produce. “Leaders have the mandate to ensure there is value addition on the agricultural produce. This will also aid products to reach far markets.” Nyanza regional coordinator James Kianda has also visited the site and appealed to residents to exploit its full potential to change lives. He said the government has allocated more than Sh100 million to buy rice from farmers from Kimira Oluch and Kisumu’s Ahero scheme. Extension officers will train farmers on pest and disease trends and how to control them. Kianda said the government is committed to supporting farmers to increase acreage under rice farming. He said the scheme is one of the projects the government wants fully used for the realisation of food security. The administrator urged farmers to harness modern technology and diversify farming to boost returns. “We want farmers to use water from the project for both crop and livestock farming. It is the best way to grow economically.” President’s Delivery Unit director Sylvance Osele and Lake Basin Development Authority CEO Raymond Omollo and chairman Odoyo Owidi have also toured the project. Omollo said buying rice from farmers will cushion them from exploitation by middlemen and protect them from losses due to lack of market. He said the region has favourable climate, good soils and adequate water food production. The government will provide tractors to help cultivate the land. Osele said, “Farmers will also be given fertiliser and spraying chemicals, among other farm inputs, at affordable costs.” Omollo said modernisation will increase farm activities and make Kenya food-secure. Owidi said farmers will be trained in modern farming practices to increase production, adding that rice farmers will be insured against risks. He urged farmers to form cooperatives for easy management. “Farmers will be paid within two weeks after their crops are taken for milling. We expect thousands of jobs will be created directly and indirectly.” (Edited by F'Orieny)