The DPP has urged the court to detain private detective Jane Mugo at Lang'ata women’s prison to ensure her safety as she claims her life is in danger. The submission came following an application by the private investigator seeking state protection after receiving threats on her life. “The court can order that she be remanded at Lang’ata women’s prison where her security will be assured,” the prosecution said. Through her lawyers Danstan Omari and former Kiambu senior principal magistrate Brian Khaemba, Mugo said that it was only by God’s mercy that she was alive. “Her clients have been given state protection …at the moment she has no gun with her. It is with the Firearms Licensing Board,” Omari said. Earlier this month, Mugo informed the court through an affidavit that her life was threatened by investigating officers in the case in which she is accused of threatened to kill two people. "Our client’s life is in danger as she is afraid of the investigators in the case by the way they are treating her. We urge the court's protection as we intend to reveal the context of the threats," the defence said. In the affidavit, Mugo claimed that threats to her life and  her family began way back in 2014 but despite her reporting to the police, none of the cases was dealt with. “In the course of this assignment, I have constantly received threats to my life and those of my staff in the different forms including receiving anonymous calls, on social media platforms,” the affidavit says. She further claimed the complaint lodged by Deepa Shah was malicious. On October 5, Mugo told a Nairobi court her life was in danger through lawyers Cliff Ombeta and Omari. She confirmed she had already surrendered her gun and the certificate to investigators at Kileleshwa police station. The court also heard that the spy's fingerprints had been taken and a statement recorded at the DCI as earlier ordered by the court. Additionally, Omari informed the court the current charges facing the accused were before court in 2014 but got dismissed. The prosecution then confirmed that they had supplied the defence with all witness statements and exhibits that they would be relying on. In September, Mugo was charged with threatening to kill Deepa Shah Desmond at Kyuna Close in Spring Valley on February 4. She also faced a second count of threatening to kill Martin Mugusia in 2015, where she allegedly drew a pistol. Appearing before chief magistrate Francis Andayi, she pleaded not guilty and the court freed her on a cash bail of Sh300,000 or an alternative bond of Sh500,000. The matter will be mentioned on November 6.