Kisumu residents have demanded action taken against contractors who have delayed the completion of roads projects. The residents threatened to hold demonstrations to protest the poor state of the roads if the government fails to act. Former MCA Ben Ombima said some contractors had abandoned work. He cited the Mamboleo junction — Kisumu Boys road. The stalled road, he said, has massive potholes, making motorists incur huge losses in repairing their vehicles. Ombima said criminals take advantage of the bad road to rob locals as they slow down in the stretch at night. He asked the Kenya National Highways Authority to speed up the construction of the Kisumu-Kakamega highway. The former ward rep said that construction delays had inconvenienced locals with the ongoing rains. “The diversions created in the area are muddy hampering movement,” he said. Boda boda operator Joseph Omondi also lamented the high cost of repairing their motorcycles. “The PSVs increase fares arbitrarily because of the state of the roads,” Mary Auma said. On Sunday during Mashujaa Day, Kisumu county commissioner Abdi Hassan said action will be taken on contractors delaying government projects. Hassan decried some of the government projects in Kisumu had stalled despite being fully funded. He named the construction of a multi-million dam in Nyando constituency whose construction works have not started after the award of contract. “Some of the key road projects have stalled even after the government paid the contractors,” Hassan said. The commissioner warned that rogue contractors will be arrested and prosecuted. “We must ensure prudent use of taxpayers money and projects are implemented fully to benefit Kenyans,” Hassan said. The tough-talking administrator said the tenders signed between government and contractors must be completed with the agreed period. He said the national government and county government should work together for proper implementation of the government-funded projects in Kisumu. Last month, the government was given notice of termination of contract over delayed payments of the multi-billion shilling Kisumu- Kakamega dual carriageway. The Israel contractor SBI International Holdings AG (Kenya), abandoned work on the 8 km dual carriage from Kisumu Boys’ junction to Mamboleo Junction last December citing payment arrears. He gave KeNHA a 14 days’ notice to clear the pending bills or they would pull out of the contract altogether. In a letter dated September 13, 2019, the contractor informed KeNHA director-general Peter Mundinia of the intention to breach the contract by September 27 if their terms were not addressed. SBI managing director Zeev Jakoby said KeNHA has since November 30, 2018, revoked on employer’s financial management despite the contractor's notice of suspension of work dated December 10, 2018. He said since the date of commencement of the suspension, the amounts due and approved in the said two Interim Payment Certificates (IPC’s) No. 15 and 16 have not been paid. The road from Kisumu Boys’ junction to Mamboleo Junction is being funded jointly by the government and World Bank and at Sh 2.6 billion. KeNHA Nyanza regional manager Felix Osongo said the contractor had been paid Sh300 million arrears and immediately raised other certificates and demanded immediate payment. 