Few people are aware that human rights activist Philip Jagero has a life-threatening heart condition. After all, he is ever-present during demonstrations and picketing. Yet he could die at any time. "Maybe I will die while fighting for people’s rights; maybe alone at home. Only God knows," Jagero says. Jagero, who is 52, was diagnosed with a heart condition known as dissecting abdominal aortic artery aneurysm Stanford type B in 2017 and was referred to India for surgery. He could not afford the treatment without help. His surgery and travel expenses were to cost more than Sh1 million while his drugs cost Sh5,700 per week. “The prescription is very expensive,” Jagero told the Star. The activist is shocked that his close friends and family have changed their attitude towards him. He is at a loss that people can pretend to love you only to run away when you face problems and fundraise for an expensive funeral when you are dead. “When trouble strikes, you can guess what anybody knowing your number will do – they will not pick my calls and once I am dead, they would raise Sh300,000 in two weeks to give me a decent send-off. But they will not raise the same for my treatment,” he said. Waiting for a miracle “I was first diagnosed in December 2017. I had suffered a cardiac attack and was undergoing treatment both in Kisumu and at Tenwek AIC Mission hospital in Bomet,” Jagero said. During his second attack, he sought Sh4 million as compensation from the DPP, Attorney General and Judicial Service Commission for appearing in a Mombasa court as a state witness in a child trafficking case. His travel expenses were not reimbursed. “In November last year when I ran out of drugs.  I found myself admitted as a high-risk cardiac patient for three weeks at the Coast General Hospital,” he said. At 52 years and with a family to look after, Jagero "just waits for a miracle to facilitate his trip to India for surgery ". Due to his poor financial status, he was forced to take his family upcountry "where life is more affordable", he said. He has three children and is fostering two of his late brother. “I moved them upcountry, life had become impossible in town with bills.” A one time strong man before he was diagnosed with the heart condition, Jagero is now unable to sit or stand for a long time. What is an aortic aneurysm? An abdominal aortic aneurysm is the weakening of an enlarged area in the lower part of the major vessel, the aorta, that supplies blood to the body. According to the Mayo Clinic, it can get ruptured at any time. A rupture of the aorta, which is the largest blood vessel in the body, can cause life-threatening bleeding. Its treatment depends on how fast the aneurysm is growing and can go to the extent of requiring surgery. The symptoms include constant pain in the abdomen, back and bellybutton. The causes include high blood pressure, trauma due to an accident, hardening of the arteries, blood vessel diseases and infection of the aorta. A family history of the disease might put one at risk. The disease is more common in men than women and is most common in people over 65. Tobacco use can also put someone at risk. The advice is to eat healthily, control blood pressure, exercise regularly and avoid tobacco use. Edited by R.Wamochie