DCI detectives are pursuing leads in the killing of a wealthy Mlolongo woman and her mother in what they suspect was an execution staged to look like a robbery. Purity Wanjiru, 35, and Anne Gatiti, 60, were shot dead and Purity's husband, Frederick Mwangi, was wounded on Saturday night in Katani, Mlolongo division, Machakos county. Gatiti was shot as she opened the gate to the compound. Purity was killed inside the car where her husband was wounded. The attack occurred at their well-secured upscale compound at about 10 pm by two armed men, one who carried a rifle, Mwangi told the police. Purity owned a wine and liquor depot with a number of outlets. Mwangi had been one of her drivers. Their well-secured house was recently constructed on three-quarters of an acre. Wanjiru and Mwangi had reportedly spent the whole evening selling wine and spirits at one of their shops in Mlolongo town, returning home late. A senior police source told the Star the killings could have been an execution. They said the motive could have been money and a relationship, which they did not disclose “There is a lot of connectivity about the victim’s family and the scene of the crime,” the source said. Police said a good Samaritan called Mlolongo police station to report gunshots at a neighbour's compound. Mwangi, who was shot in the leg and arm, told police they arrived home from Mlolngo where a store is located. As he was parking his vehicle inside the compound, he said, he heard movement toward his vehicle. In his side mirror, he saw two men, one carrying a rifle and approaching the vehicle, he said. "They first shot the elderly lady Anne Gatiti [at the gate] and then his wife Purity and then shot Frederick in the left leg and hand," the police report said. He is admitted at Shalom Hospital and is in stable condition. The bodies were taken to Shalom Community Hospital mortuary for postmortem. The robbers took Purity's handbag, with cash from the night's business, and escaped towards a quarry. During the Star’s independent investigations, it emerged that a third woman, Wanjiru’s younger sister, was also injured and admitted to a hospital with bruises to the face. Her name was not disclosed and details were not clear. She lived with her sister, husband and two children. Speaking to the Star on Monday, chairman Jimmy Nguli of the Metropolitan Residents Association said he was among the first residents to respond to gunshots. He said they managed to get inside the compound and found the elderly woman on the ground and her daughter in the car. Neighbours said the three women, Mwangi and his two children were leading secretive life. They moved into the house in August 2018. Neighbors said the couple used to drive home in various vehicles including a pickup, a canter FH and a private car. The elderly woman always opened the gate to her daughter. They had a watchman who was being paid Sh10,000 but he was sacked, a neighbour said. Neighbours said the elderly woman always said hello. Athi River deputy county commissioner David Juma held a security meeting a few metres from the scene of Crime on Monday. He was accompanied by the subcounty security team which included subcounty police commander Samwel Mukuusi, DCIO Vincent Korir and Ap boss Samwel Olal. (Edited by V. Graham)    