All government ministries must support the Universal Health Coverage, which will go national beginning next year. Researchers say the UHC is not the exclusive function of the  Ministry of Health, which would only coordinate the UHC rollout. "We are bringing people from all sectors, transport, education, matatu industry. Ministry of Health won't really be the one to make UHC succeed but will coordinate. We have hospital wards full of people full after road accidents. We have matatu people they must also come in," said Dr Eva Njenga, chair of the Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Board. At least 8,000 Kenyans are killed by roads each year, according to the World Health Organisation. However, the police place the figure at 3,000, which does not include victims who die in hospital and home long after an accident. Dr Njenga spoke at the ongoing Kenyatta University innovation conference. Dr Elizabeth Bukusi, a chief research officer at the Kenya Medical Research Instituite, said the focus of UHC should be health promotion. "We have developed an educational system that focuses on academics and children hardly get time to exercise. When they come home they are on screen, which is not good for them. We are creating a zombie group of individuals who will be riddled with NCDs. Where is the time for them to exercise and to think?" she said. Prof Vincent Onywera, a recreational management and exercise scientist at KU, said physical inactivity is the fourth global cause of death. "For us to be active we have to ensure the other players are doing their work, and that includes physical planners," he said. The UHC was piloted in December in four counties, with the gradual rollout expected next year. The WHO gave a resounding approval of the plan and its director-general Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus — a former health minister of Ethiopia — attended the launch in Kisumu in December. “The changes you are undertaking have the power not just to change the lives of millions of Kenyans, but to change the lives of millions more in the region,” Tedros said. The pilot is underway in Kisumu, Machakos, Nyeri and Isiolo, where 3.2 million people have registered for the Afya Card to access subsidised services in public health facilities. The ministry is currently taking stock of the lessons learnt, with plans to expand coverage across Kenya this year. “We view UHC not as a destination but as a continuous process, which will involve constant widening of the social safety nets to ensure no one is left behind,” President Uhuru said at the launch.