Nairobi residents will soon have more local leather products to choose from once work on the Kariokor Common Leather Factory is completed. The county government is set to sign a memorandum of understanding with the national government and the Leather Council of Kenya on the project. New machines will be installed as part of the project to assist traders in better production. The equipment are currently being stored in Thika by the KLDC awaiting completion of the market. Works on the plant is currently 85 per cent complete. Located in Kariokor ward, Starehe subcounty, the multi-million-shilling facility is set to improve leather production and to hasten the process. Last week Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko paid an impromptu visit to the new leather market. He directed the county executive for Trade Allan Igambi to follow up the construction works until the plant is complete. “I want you to ensure that all the works is complete and commissioned. There is no room for shoddy work by contractors,” he said. The facility is expected to have an average annual production growth of 10 million shoes from the current 2 million. This will increase traders’ annual income to more than Sh1 billion annually by 2022. Nairobi has the highest number of slaughterhouses with an average annual production of 525 tonnes of hides and skins, 1.6 tonnes of goatskin, 31.5 tonnes of calf hides and 199 tonnes of camel hides. The new market will create job opportunities for city youths. "At the moment, old Kariokor market has around 1,000 employees but after the launch of the new market, we are expecting to have at least 10,000 workers in the next three years,” Igambi said. In April, the county's markets director Fredrick Ndunyu said that it would introduce training sessions for employees on how to operate the machines. “Currently, their products are of good quality but they have been having problems during finishing. When it is hand-done it is not as of good quality as when it is done by the machines, but all this will soon change,” he said. A management board will also be created between the leather council, the county and national government. Other stakeholders will be incorporated to ensure the facility is managed effectively. (edited by O. Owino)