Kenya's golden girl Hellen Obiri has won the 5,000 metres women final at the IAAF world championships in Doha. It was a Kenyan one-two, with Margaret Chelimo Kipkemboi taking silver and Konstanze Klosterhalfen taking bronze. Obiri of Kenya displayed her dominance of the 5,000 metres at the world athletics championships on Saturday by winning a second consecutive world title in a tight race at Khalifa International Stadium. The 29-year-old, who had entered the competition with the fastest time of the season, ran the first kilometre in less than three minutes and stayed ahead of the pack for most of the race. With four laps remaining, Germany's Konstanze Klosterhalfen and Margaret Kipkemboi of Kenya were a stride behind Obiri but she resisted the pressure and stayed in front. Obiri's lead came under threat again at the bell but the Kenyan kept her composure, sprinting to increase the gap between herself and the pack to cross the finish line in 14 minutes 26.72 seconds, a championship record. Kipkemboi won silver, finishing less than one second after Obiri, drawing applause and cheers from flag-waving Kenyan supporters. Klosterhalfen took the bronze with 14:28.43. Dutch runner Sifan Hassan, the world champion in the 10,000m, had initially entered the 5,000m but decided to run the 1,500m instead, winning the gold earlier on Saturday. In doing so, she became the first athlete, male or female, to win the two events at a single Olympic Games or world championships. Hassan, who moved to the Netherlands after leaving Ethiopia as a refugee when she was 15, took over the lead at the end of the first lap and never looked back as she broke the championship record with a time of three minutes 51.95 seconds. Titleholder Faith Kipyegon of Kenya finished more than two seconds behind in second, despite setting a Kenyan record of 3:54.22, and Ethiopia's Guday Tsegay took the bronze. Hassan gave an emotional interview after the race during which she said she was angry at being linked to the doping scandal involving Alberto Salazar, head coach of the Nike Oregon Project (NOP) where she trains. "It's a very hard week for me, I was so just angry and I could not talk to anyone. I just ran all out. That hard work can't be beaten by anything," she told the BBC. "It's what makes me angry, I have been clean all my life. I work hard, I'm not an emotional person but it makes me so mad." Salazar was banned for four years by the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) on Monday for "orchestrating and facilitating prohibited doping conduct". Salazar has denied wrongdoing and vowed to appeal while Nike has said it will stand by the coach. There has been no suggestion of any wrongdoing by Hassan but she has faced constant questioning about her connections with him since the decision was announced. After taking the lead, the 26-year-old Hassan led the field around two laps, then charged away over the last 400 metres and left the others in her wake. Britain's Lara Muir was second at the bell but was overhauled by Kipyegon and Tsegay around the final bend. Kipyegon, also the Olympic champion, has returned to running after giving birth to a daughter last year. The remarkably versatile Hassan also broke the world mile record this year, won world championship bronze over 1,500 metres in 2015 and 5,000 metres two years ago. "I've been working hard at 1,500 this year," Hassan said. "It looked this was easy for me but it took so much hard work."