Users will now be able to buy data bundles with no expiry date on telecom operator Safaricom. Safaricom CEO Michael Joseph made the announcement during Safaricom's 19th anniversary. He unveiled the new system dubbed ‘Simple. Transparent. Honest.’ When a user wants to buy data using *544#, it brings four options: Data bundle (no expiry date), Calls and SMS (No expiry date), Normal data bundle with expiry and Check balance. Under the code, users will be able to choose any amount to buy and also get 50 per cent extra airtime for calls and SMS across all networks. Safaricom said it will serve its more than 33 million customers in under five minutes both at its more than 50 Safaricom shops across the country and whenever they call the Call Centre. "The company will reorganize its shops across the country to provide a more personalized experience to customers," Joseph added. Starting November 1, 2019, new customers joining the network will get SIM cards for free at Safaricom shops and dealer outlets, upon which a customer will top up with Sh 50 airtime to activate their line. Customers will also have the freedom to choose a number of their choice when they purchase a new line. Under *100#, users are able to manage all their active subscriptions, stop promotional messages and manage data. According to the CEO, users should not browse without a data bundle. "View your data usage, get data management tips and and get your PUK number," he said. The new plans further empowers customers with the freedom to purchase both talk time and data bundles for any amount, starting as low as Sh1. Customers can see how much data MBs, minutes and SMS they will get before completing the transaction. The company has also increased its data bundle sizes under the new plan by more than 45 percent especially for the more affordable price points of between Sh 1 and Sh 20. A customer purchasing Sh 5 worth of bundles will now get 10 MB with no expiry up from 7 MB that would expire in 24 hours. "We have reviewed all of our products and services, looked at the many customer touch points, and examined the customer feedback surveys, good and bad, about how we serve you," Joseph said. The latest move to introduce data bundles with no expiry date comes hot on the heels of the free YouTube bundle that was unveiled for Eliud Kipchoge’s INEOS challenge. This comes after lawyer Adrian Kamotho sued telecommunication operators for irregularly depriving consumers of their unused data bundles.