Nairobi will soon convert the Globe Roundabout into a bus terminus to ease traffic flow. Public Service Vehicles using the Koja/Old Mutual terminus will relocate to the roundabout. County chief officer for roads Engineer Fredrick Karanjatold the Star on Thursday that the plan was at the procurement stage. "We had advertised last November but it did not materialise and we will re-advertise so we can go ahead with the plan," he said. When the roundabout is converted, Karanja said transport engineers will decide whether or not the Koja terminus will be permanently removed. "The whole idea is to ease traffic flow in the CBD and also attempt to decongest it. As of now, the county is finding ways to end traffic snarl-ups in the CBD," he said. For almost two months, some PSVs have been using the Globe Roundabout as a holding ground. Eng Karanjasaid, however, it's not official though some saccos have been using it as a parking bay.  In an interview in June, the chief officer had blamed the Koja bus terminus for traffic snarl-ups as vehicles enter the CBD through the Globe flyover and matatus operate in and out of the stage of that terminus. He had said removal would ease some  CBD gridlock. Eng. Karanja said the county was coming up with other methods to decongest the CBD. One way is the recent conversion of Luthuli Avenue into a one-way street. No matatu will be allowed back on Luthuli Avenue, which will remain a pedestrian walkway.  NJIRIRI BUS TERMINUS In addition, work is underway at the Njiriri/ Kariobang South bus terminus. Once complete, it will help reduce traffic by giving space to matatus that are dropping passengers in the area. The terminus is located along Mumias Road next to Outering Estate and Pioneer Estate in Kariobangi South Ward. Eng. Karanja said the terminus will be used by matatus on routes 58-Buruburu, 23-Uhuru/Buruburu/Outering and 36-Kariobangi South/Dandora. "The terminus was used back when we had the Double M but when the numbers reduced, the terminus was no longer in use. But after construction works are completed it will be very useful to the residents and ease traffic flow," he said.  (Edited by V. Graham)