 BY MAURICE ALAL @alalmaurice Thirteen people died on Thursday night in a road accident near Awasi on the Kisumu-Kericho highway. Thirty-five others suffered injuries and were rushed to Kisumu hospitals. County police commander Benson Maweu said a Nairobi-bound Eldoret Express bus collided head-on with a trailer at Pala area in Nyando, Kisumu county. The bus had 51-passenger capacity.  The trailer was headed for Kisumu. Both drivers were among those who perished in the 11pm accident. Maweu said they had yet to establish the exact number of passengers who were on the bus. “We have confirmed 13 passengers dead,” he said. Witnesses said the bus driver was trying to overtake a tractor. The trailer hit the right side of the bus. Kenya Red Cross officials and police officers rushed to the scene after receiving a distress call. A Kenya Red Cross official said 35 casualties with multiple injuries were taken to Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Teaching and Referral Hospital (JOOTRH), Awasi Mission Hospital and Hope Medical Hospital. The humanitarian agency appealed for blood donation to help save the injured. Rachael Auma, who boarded the bus in Bondo, Siaya county, said the driver was speeding. “When we reached Awasi, the driver increased speed. Thereafter, the bus started wobbling while trying to overtake a truck ferrying sugarcane. He then crashed into an oncoming trailer,” she said. Darkon Owiti said he boarded the bus at Ogango in Kisumu West. “We reached Kisumu town and left at around 10.20pm. Everything was okay until we got to Awasi. The driver started speeding as there were no vehicles on the road,” he said. In less than 10 minutes, the driver lost control and bus swerved before colliding with the trailer. “I lost consciousness and when I woke up I found myself lying down with some people on top of me, including luggage. Others were crying and praying at the roadside,” Owiti said. He said some passengers were stuck in the wreckage and expressed disappointment at the slow response by the authorities. Owiti said the accident occurred at about 11pm and police officers and ambulances arrived one and a half hours later. He said they were taken to Ahero County Hospital but security guards refused to open the gate saying health workers were on strike. “We were then rushed to Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Teaching and Referral Hospital,” Owiti said. Caroline Odhiambo, who boarded from Uyoma, Siaya county, could not hold back her tears after her baby died. Another child, a boy, suffered minor injuries. “My baby was stuck in the wreckage. I tried to pull her out but I could not as there was a metal on her neck,” she said, adding they were going for a celebration at her sister’s place in Machakos county. Dorcas Awino was also from Uyoma and was travelling Nairobi. Elizabeth Onyango, who was from Bondo, said she was asleep when the accident occurred. “I heard a loud bang and thought I was dreaming but later realised we were involved in an accident. I prayed to God to save us. Other passengers were also praying,” she said. On Friday, JOOTRH doctors were busy attending to survivors. CEO Peter Okoth said they received 18 of the injured travellers and 14 were in stable condition and were likely to be discharged the same day. “The patients are in stable condition but we are going to admit four for monitoring before we finally discharge them,” he said. Okoth said the referral hospital was in touch with other facilities treating survivors of the accident to ensure they receive the necessary attention. Nyanza regional coordinator James Kianda said they had launched investigations. “We’ve not identified the owner of the lorry and at the moment our officers are at the scene to determine what lead to the fatal accident,” he said. He, however, warned public service vehicles against flouting traffic rules.“Stern action will be taken against such drivers to ensure no more lives are lost on the road,” Kianda said. Police officers have been deployed across the region to enforce the rules and check on the speed round the clock. Kianda said they were also looking for the list of passengers, which all public vehicles are required to have. He said that will help in identification. (Edited by F'Orieny)