Governors have criticised the Treasury for disbursing Sh133 billion two days to the end of the 2018-19 financial year, making it difficult for counties to plan and spend. Declaring it unspent means counties lose the funds and must send them back to the Treasury. also gives powers to the Treasury to recover unspent funds at the end of the financial year. “Counties experienced this challenge, especially in the last financial year. At the end of the financial year, only 68 per cent had been disbursed,” the Council of governors said in a statement on Monday. Parliament allocated Sh310 billion to counties but only Sh205 billion was disbursed on time. The delay has resulted in stalled projects, underdevelopment, delayed payments to suppliers and general disruption of activities in the counties. The difference left a funding gap of Sh133 billion two days to the end of the 2018-19 financial year hours before Treasury goes for unspent funds. “In the last financial year, which is 2017-2018 we received the total funds two days before the year ended and it was tough for governors to plan and spent the amount in hours,” an official told the Star. They added that the delay ensured counties fail to settle pending bills and administrative costs as well as slow development projects. This happened a the same time that at least 14 counties were grappling with worst hunger and famine in four decades following failed March-May long rains, leading to drought. “The Council of Governors has been at the forefront on this issue. We are calling for an open discussion," the CoG statement said. The governors were issuing a social media statement on Monday on the state of devolution. They defended devolution, saying that it has opened up remote areas of the country and ensured Kenyans at the grassroots access good services. “One thing we must admit, rural counties have become alive with devolution, business is growing and once-dead cities are now bustling,” the CoG said. “With the help of the Council of Governors, counties have mainstreamed national strategies including the Big Four and Vision 2030 in their second generation of the County Integrated Development Plan (CIDP).” The CoG argues that the national government has failed to follow the laid down legal procedures to disburse county funds. This has forced counties to return unspent funds to the national government at the end of the financial year as required by law. Governors said that the government policy at the county level should not be interrupted to deny Kenyans their rights. “Government is perpetual when it's a government policy it must go on. Only governors change but policies remain. When it was a project by the county government and is in the CIDP, even the incoming government will proceed with the project,” CoG said. (Edited by V. Graham)