Vera Sidika says she reached out to Huddah Monroe to do business but the effort was in vain. Speaking to Wasafi FM over the weekend, the Kenyan businesswoman-cum-singer pointed out that Huddah has always been the one throwing shade and not the other way round. "I don't have beef with her. As far as I'm concerned, she is the one who throws shade at me all the time. Most of the time I know how to ignore it. There is a time I looked for her to do business with her but people are different," she said. "People will always compare celebrities even in any business. I feel it's a normal thing, it spices the game and that's really good. I don't usually get involved in other people's business cause I don't know what she is involved with and what she does." The two have not met face-to-face for about seven years. About her relationship with singer Otile Brown, she says he tried to patch things up after their scandalous break-up. "I didn't even know what his birthday message meant because he is not even on my Instagram. When we broke up, I blocked him. I don't know where he got my photo from, maybe he has a fake account," she said. "When we left each other, it was drama. It was really crazy, but he looked for me and tried to apologise. He came to the salon and we had a conversation. We've moved on but once in a while, he checks up on me." Sidika is currently dating a Tanzanian doctor, Jimmy Chansa, whom she met while at a business trip to Dar es Salaam. "We met here in Tanzania. We started communicating and what followed was dating. I feel like a hopeless romantic and when I fall in love, I do for real. We have so many things in common and he is the love of my life. I really do love him. We have been dating for five months now," she said. "When you meet someone, you feel like he is the one. It's not a matter of time but respect and understanding. I'm 30 and I think I'm ready for kids." Sidika defended her previous failed relationships, saying the men were the problem. "I am a keeper unless I can't take it. My relationship with a Nigerian guy was abusive, I had to leave," she said.