With only 15 days left to the Kibra by-election, candidates have intensified their campaigns in a final push to woo residents. Over 1oo,000 registered voters on November 7 are expected to vote one of the 24 candidates to be the next Kibra MP. The by-election was occasioned by the death of Ken Okoth who succumbed to cancer. Among the leading candidates seeking the Kibra parliamentary seat are; Jubilee's McDonald Mariga, ODM's Bernard Imran Okoth and ANC's Eliud Owalo. On Monday, Mariga was accompanied by his mother Mildred Wanyama at Woodley grounds in Kibra as he embarked on his campaign trail. Dressed in a green floral Kitenge as she held onto a crutch,Mildred, listened keenly to her son as he unveiled his Sports and Education Manifesto. Mariga promised to form a technical bursary committee made up of parents and teachers in each ward to ensure transparent allocation of the bursary. He also disclosed that he would seek international scholarships to empower Kibra students. "We will introduce a Kibra CV bank. That will use technology to lobby for the job for our youth," he said. The former Harambee Stars international promised to upgrade a modern stadium at Woodley. "We will set up a soccer academy in Kibra and lobby for sports-based scholarships. We will upgrade existing playgrounds in Laini, Sarangombe and other to acceptable levels to host football, rugby," he said. He promised to set up a Kibra football club as well as teams in volleyball, darts, rugby, boxing and other sports with homegrown players to act as a platform of exposing local talents. Mariga said he was keen at ensuring the youth get as many opportunities in sports as he did. Imran, the late Ken Okoth's brother on Sunday stepped up his campaigns as he engaged a congregation at PEFA All Nations church in Laini Saba. "This morning at the PEFA All Nations. Church in Kibera Laini Saba. We continued with our campaign for Bernard Otieno Okoth. This afternoon we shall have a major rally at the Kamkunji Grounds where we shall speak to the people," ODM tweeted on Sunday. Imran later in the day held a rally at Kamukunji grounds. “This coming Sunday, after the Mashujaa Day, we will hold rallies in Lindi and Laini Saba wards. Joho and Oparanya will lead the rallies,” ODM Nairobi chairman George Aladwa said. The Makadara MP, who has been coordinating grassroots campaigns in the constituency, said the party's vice-chairmen, Governors Hassan Joho and Wycliffe Oparanya will also conduct door-to-door visits in campaigns for Imran. Jubilee leaders allied to the Kieleweke wing of the ruling party will also join the ODM brigade on the ground. Aladwa said that Raila will join the leaders in the last rally on November 3 at the Kamukunji Grounds. “We have demarcated the constituency in a way that will enable us to reach every door in Kibra. This is an ODM constituency and the strategy we have deployed will enable us to recapture the seat," Aladwa said. Former Raila Odinga's aide Owalo on Tuesday held a rally at Lindi grounds accompanied by ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi. "We are ON! Our campaign in Kibra remains respectful and issues-based; and has brought onboard thousands of volunteers who knock doors and make our case to their Neighbours, friends, families and business partners. New Vision. Ready Leadership, "Owalo tweeted on Tuesday. The ANC candidate headed Raila's 2013 Presidential Campaign serving as Head of the CORD Presidential Campaign Secretariat and Chief Campaign Manager to former Prime Minister. Owalo fell out with Raila during the ODM primaries for Kibra at the 2017 elections and later jumped ship to the ANC party.