Homa Bay Governor Cyprian Awiti on Wednesday revealed that he could not serve residents effectively due to loss of sight. He said the problem kept him away from the public for some time. Awiti said there was a time he could not see, a situation which deterred him from discharging his official duties for months. Speaking during the swearing in ceremony for newly appointed executive for Roads Samuel Nyaoke, Awiti narrated how he lost his sight. The governor asked residents to be patient with him as he gets back to work. He promised to deliver on his election pledges. “For the long time I have been away, I have been getting medication for my eyes. My eyes were very painful but I thank God the situation is now different,” Awiti said. The governor said he had recovered and was ready to discharge his official duties. “I thank the people who have prayed for me. I am now able to see very well and discharge my duties,” Awiti said. The county chief said he had suffered ill health since the beginning of the year when he developed the eye problem. He announced that he had forgiven all his political enemies in the county and will never engage in political wars with them again. Awiti also told his executive committee members to avoid speculations and leaking secrets from cabinet meetings. He said it was unethical to for a member of his cabinet to be involved in the vice. “It is wrong for any of my ministers to leak any matter discussed in the cabinet meeting to the public. This is not the best way to work,” he said. He said he would reprimand executive members who were fond of leaking secrets of his cabinet meetings. “Any cabinet member who intends to continue leaking the cabinet secrets should resign with immediate effect. Be ready to lose your job if you cannot change,” he added. Cabinet members were told to embrace team work, which would enable them achieve the county government's development agenda. “Let’s work together and focus on our development agenda. We should create a good environment for more investments in the county,” Awiti said. His deputy Hamilton Orata urged elected leaders and residents to tone down on politics and collaborate with the county government for development. “We have experienced some political wars but these wars cannot help us. Let the county elected leaders and residents reduce their wars to enable us achieve development goals,” Orata said.