Gor Mahia have confirmed skipper Kenneth Muguna will face disciplinary action after absconding club duties last week. Muguna, the 2017 Kenyan Premier League Most Valuable Player alongside the reigning one, Joash Onyango, did not train the whole of last week and were not part of the team which beat Kariobangi Sharks 1-0 last weekend. Muguna resumed training yesterday according to the club’s team manager Jolawi Obondo, while Onyango’s whereabouts remain a mystery. “Muguna trained with the team but Joash, who serves as Muguna’s assistant is yet to respond to our messages,” revealed Jolawi. In the absence of the duo, former Kakamega Homeboyz’s centre half Charles Momanyi skippered the team against Sharks. Coach Steven Polack said his skipper will be subjected to an unspecified internal disciplinary action for absconding duty without notice. The Briton, however, revealed that the mode of action will be decided after consultations with the players, the management and the other members of the technical bench. Muguna in his defence argued that he kept off due to ‘personal reasons’ which had been shared with the management. “Much as he is the captain, we have to take some disciplinary reproach. The same will apply to Onyango when he returns. We will discuss with the rest of players as they have a voice too as well as the bench and the management of the club,” said the coach. Polack, who welcomed the return of Muguna, cautioned the playing unit against unprofessionalism. He trashed reports that he was plotting to strip him off the captaincy roles. “It’s an advantage to have him back in the team as we have major assignments ahead of us. Before then, I have cautioned the players to act as professionals. With Gor set to host DR Congo’s DC Motema Pembe this weekend in a Caf Confederations Cup first leg of the playoff, Polack lifted the lid on the team’s preparations. He said he had sourced videos of their opponents and would analyse it with the view of singling out their weaknesses. “I have got a couple of their videos and I am analysing them just to pick their strengths and weaknesses. We will be able to change tact within the week depending on what I will deduce from the videos.” Should Gor sail past Motema Pembe, they will book a place in the tournament’s group stages for the third time in a row.  