Ganze MP Teddy Mwambire has said there is a plot by unknown people to eliminate him. On Monday, the MP said three armed men visited a neighbouring homestead in his Forodhoyo village and asked the direction to his home. Speaking to the media in Kilifi, Mwambire said he was not taking the security threats lightly. The legislator said the assailants armed with pistols went to the village on Sunday morning and harassed a Standard 8 boy. “They went to the homestead and asked for directions to my home. The boy on suspecting their motive told them that he does not know where my home is. They harassed him and asked him to give them anything so that they could spare his life. The boy went into the house and brought Sh1,000 that had been left by his father who had gone to church,” Mwambire said. The armed gang reportedly fled on a motorcycle. The MP reported the matter at Matanomane police post. Ganze subcounty commander Patrick Ngeiywa confirmed that the MP reported the matter and investigations are underway. “They also waylaid a boda boda rider at Kafuloni on your way to Mlima wa Ndege and took from him some money. These are criminals that the security agencies must apprehend because if their sole intention was my life then they wouldn’t have harassed the boy or the boda boda,” he said Mwambire suspects herders currently grazing their livestock in Ganze are behind the threats. “There is an influx of livestock in Ganze from neighbouring counties. I suspect among these herders there are criminal elements. We need to make sure these herders are chased from this area,” he said. This is not the first time the MP has reported threats on his life. In 2005, he was attacked and seriously injured by unknown people. “There have been several attempts to hunt me down for unknown reasons. Last time I raised this issue was last year and unfortunately it was disputed by some security and political leaders. I was invited to the county security committee where I shared what was going on. Things went silent but now the threats have resurfaced," he said.