Five directors of a construction company were charged on Thursday in a Nyeri court with evading taxes totalling Sh85,170,513. They are members of the same family —  a father, mother and three children. they were detained Wednesday at Nyeri Central police station. The income tax returns and VAT returns of their firm —Jipsy Civil and Building Contractors Limited — for  2016, 2017 and 2018 were not being filed, the court heard. Ivy Kimani Wangari, Joseph Kimani Ngacha, Mary Wanjiru Ngacha, George Ngacha Kimani, Kevin Munyiri Kimani faced nine counts of tax evasion. The company was listed as the sixth accused entity. Senior resident magistrate Faith Muguongo released each of them on Sh2 million bail or a bond of Sh3 million with a surety of a similar amount. They were granted Sh100,000 bail and Sh200,000 bond with a surety of a similar amount for allegedly not submitting individual self-assessment returns. They allegedly defaulted to pay VAT amounting to Sh23.7 million in 2016, another Sh39.4 million in 2017 and last year Sh10.7. They are also accused of failing to pay corporation tax amounting to Sh3.7 million in 2016, Sh1.7 in 2015 and self-assessed VAT amounting to Sh2.9 million by December 2015. The five also failed to submit to the commissioner for domestic taxes VAT returns for the three years. Through lawyer Levi Munyeri, the accused requested the court to grant them reasonable bail. Munyeri said the five were family members. They have a permanent residence, an office, while their rural home is in Nyeri and therefore, they pose no flight risk, the attorney said. Going by the alleged offences, they do not pose a threat to the public or national security, hence there's no possibility of interfering with investigations and witnesses who are police and KRA officers, he said. Joseph Kimani Ngacha said was struggling with high blood pressure and had a stroke a few months ago. “They have complied religiously to the four summonses that they have been given with some of them being within very short notices to appear at KRA Nyeri for investigations,” lawyer Munyeri said. The company is in debt due to delayed payment by those contracting its services, including government agencies. The prosecution did not object to the bail request but told the court each offence attracts a fine of Sh10 million. The pretrial hearing will be on October 23. Edited by R.Wamochie