Raila Odinga's ODM bagged two seats in Malindi and Garissa, Jubilee clinched one in Marsabit while Maendeleo Chap Chap floored Wiper in Kitui in Thursday's ward by-elections. Reuben Katana of ODM comfortably clinched the Ganda ward seat in Malindi, Kilifi county, successfully parrying off a challenge from an independent candidate and a Jubilee flag-bearer. Katana garnered 4,177 votes trouncing Abdul Omar, an independent candidate who came second with 2,331 votes, while Jubilee Party’s Joseph Kiponda came a distant third with 589 votes. The ODM victory was a sigh of relief for the party that had camped in Malindi throughout the campaign period to stamp its popularity in the area despite a threat posed by local MP Aisha Jumwa. The Ganda ward by-election had been billed as tough political battle pitting ODM bigwigs both in Kilifi and outside against Jumwa, who was backing the independent candidate. Jumwa is the Malindi MP in whose constituency the by-election was happening. The campaigns was marred by tensions and chaos that saw a man shot dead on Tuesday evening after Jumwa stormed the home of Katana during a meeting his agents ahead of Thursday's by-election. Jumwa, who has become a thorn in the flesh of the main opposition party, was thereafter arrested together with her bodyguard Geoffrey Okuto but was released by a Mombasa court after police failed to charge her. The two were released on a Sh500,000 cash bail but police given a green-light to charge them any time soon once they have enough evidence. As ODM savoured victory in Malindi, the party delivered another resounding victory in Garissa County, after its candidate, Sheikh Mohammed Ali, won the Abakile Ward. He garnered 1,961 votes while Abdiwahab Osman of the Jubilee party came a distant second with 155 votes. KANU’S Hussein Maalim took third place with 27 votes. With Raila's ODM party bagging the two ward seats, Jubilee went home with one seat after its candidate Stephen Nakeno won the Loyangalani seat in Marsabit. Nakeno garnered 1,522 votes while Kenya African Union (KANU) candidate Aaron Lesiantam followed with 1,048 votes. Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka suffered a staggering blow in his Kitui backyard after he lost the Mutungoni ward by-election to his nemesis, Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua. Mutua's Maendeleo Chap Chap won the Mutungoni Ward in Machakos County after its candidate Musee Mati garnered 2,892 votes against Wiper Stephen Kithuka who polled 2,147 votes. In third place was Independent candidate Jace Kavale with 853 votes, followed by Alex Nzau of Jubilee with 815 votes. Mutua's victory proved a bitter bill for Kalonzo to swallow given the turf wars pitting the two in their battle for the control of the vote-rich Ukambani region. Mutua' Mutungoni victory is significant as it offers him an entry into the Kitui County politics as well as buttresses his bid to firm up a stranglehold of Ukambi region. Kalonzo had personally led a strong team of Wiper bigwigs in campaigning for their party candidate a move that saw him attract criticism from a section of politicians who accused him of 'engaging in village politics.'