A simmering row between Wazito head coach Fred Ambani and technical director Stanley Okumbi culminated into a near fistfight last week prompting the club management to wield the axe, sending the duo packing. “We can confirm that Head Coach Fred Ambani and Technical Director Stanley Okumbi have left the club by mutual consent,” said an official statement from the club CEO Dennis Gicheru yesterday. Gicheru thanked the duo for their service to the club and wished them well for the future. “I would like to thank coach Ambani and coach Okumbi for their great service to the club. They did a tremendous job during their time here and we wish them all the best,” he said. Gicheru further added that assistant coach Hamisi Mohammed will temporarily be in charge of the team. There has been no love lost between the two ever since Okumbi was brought in as the clubs head of technical affairs. A source at the club had earlier disclosed that Ambani felt that Okumbi was usurping his role as the person in charge of the team’s day-to-day training and team selection. “They are both strong personalities but they were obviously not the best of friends so working together was almost impossible. But they should have put their differences aside and work together for the benefit of the team. Instead, they put their egos ahead to the detriment of the club,” said the source. Despite club boss Ricardo Badoer bankrolling what seemed as game-changing signings of experienced Kenyan Premier League title winners Ali Abondo, Karim Nizigimana and Abouba Sibomana, Wazito have flattered to deceive. Sunday’s defeat to Kakamega Homeboyz was their lowest point yet having suffered another defeat at the hands of Gor Mahia. The club has posted a mixed bag of results so far with two draws and two wins to go with their twin defeats. Club official Solomon Alubala while refusing to divulge further details on the unfolding situation said the club would issue a comprehensive statement. Wazito are currently 13th with six points from as many games. Both Okumbi and Ambani have seemingly taken a vow of silence with neither picking up repeated calls to shed further light on the matter. Wazito, who face Posta Rangers in their next match, will not be short of coaches to choose from with James Nandwa (Sony Sugar), Francis Baraza (Chemelil Sugar) former coach Frank Ouna, AFC Leopards’ assistant coach Anthony Kimani, his Sofapaka counterpart John Baraza all possible options to take charge of the ambitious moneybags.