There is no simple Yes or No answer on the impact of the trips; each trip should be evaluated on its own merit. For Saudi Arabia, I don’t really know what we as a country are really doing with them, but let me begin with the latest trip to Russia. There are concerns at the continental level; Africa Studies Association had a conference here in Nairobi last weekend at United States International University. One thing the participants unanimously agreed is that we need to talk to African presidents, this thing of African heads of states being paraded in foreign capitals is humiliating. You find that if it is not China, then Turkey, India or Japan, Russia or USA. What is more unsettling is that African presidents were being paraded yet Russia had only $9 billion for the whole continent. That is comparable to what Kenya Diaspora alone brings which is $3 billion every year. For the whole of Africa, the Diaspora brings $80 billion each year. So why are Africa presidents being summoned and paraded for what is petty cash? While our own people – and this is where I have a  problem with our head of state – he goes to the US and he is available to meet American business people but not the Kenyans who bring home the $3 billion every year, much more than all foreign aid put together. I thought he (President Kenyatta) would have more time for his own people, as the chairman of Kenya Diaspora Alliance that is my major problem. In a few instances, he gets to meet Kenyans when he goes out but I think that should be his top priority given they are our highest investors because you know the Diaspora brings more than our three agricultural exports put together. Tea, coffee and horticulture bring $2.4 billion, Diaspora brings $3 billion. In terms of trips to China and so on, it was reported that Chinese were giving Africa $200 billion. That is what makes peanuts of the Russian pact. Chinese offer is a credible figure. Even if the Chinese government parades the presidents you can see what it is a serious proposition. Again, these meetings, if they are to do with Africans should be held on African soil. We should be trading with dignity as partners. We should be talking on equal terms.  Chairman of Kenya Diaspora Association spoke to the Star    