Three people from Embu committed suicide within 12 hours including a Standard 5 pupil after her mother allegedly reprimanded her over poor performance in school. Grace Gatwiri, 12, a pupil of Kanyariri Primary in Mbeere South subcounty, is said to have been heavily reprimanded on Tuesday evening after her performance in one of her exams failed to meet her mother's expectations. Kiamuringa assistant chief Ronald Njue, who confirmed the incident, said after trying to pursue the issue, he learnt that the girl was so affected by the scolding that she gave up on life. He said when the girl left for school on Wednesday morning, she carried a sisal rope and used it to play with other friends all day. All this time, Njue said, her friends did not know what she had planned. “Around 4.30pm, instead of the girl walking home together with her friends, she went to a secluded place where she climbed a tree and hanged herself," Njue said. "Her body was found dangling from the tree after it as established that she was missing." The assistant chief said the girl had left a note explaining the move "police who took her body went away with the note before I could read it". Efforts to get the content of the note from the police had not succeeded by press time. The body was moved to Embu Level 5 Teaching and Referral Hospital mortuary. Njue advised parents to instead guide their children with love and passion in case of poor performance to avoid a repeat of the incident. In Embu North, police commander Kere Murilo said they received information around 9am on Thursday that Simon Muriithi, 26, had hanged himself for unknown reasons on a macadamia tree in Kathangariri. He said investigations have been launched as the man did not leave a suicide note. Kere said they also got information of a Morgan Karimi, 36, found hanging from the rafters of her house in Kianjuki sub-location. She was found by her 11-year-old son and is suspected to have committed suicide. Her body and that of Muriithi, Njue said, have also been moved to the level 5 hospital morgue. Murilo expressed concern over rampant suicides asking whether people are overwhelmed by problems. He advised residents to share their challenges with people who can assist them like religious leaders, close family friends, counsellors or elders. Edited by R.Wamochie