The Kitui assembly will in the next seven days form two ad hoc committees to verify the allegations levelled against two CECs after MCAs voted to impeach them. MCAs on Tuesday unanimously approved a motion to remove Health executive Rosaita Ngina and her Trade colleague Philip Mumo from office on allegations they were hired on the basis of fake degrees. The motion was moved by majority leader Peter Kilonzo during a sitting presided over by assembly speaker George Ndotto. In the next seven days, the assembly will formulate two ad hoc committees to deal with the case of each of the two county executives and verify the veracity of the allegations that led to the impeachment. During the stipulated 10-day sittings by each of the committees, Ngina and Mumo will be called upon to defend themselves after which recommendations will be presented to the assembly on whether or not the impeachment was justified. While moving the motion, Kilonzo informed the assembly that the county ministers had submitted forged degree certificates during the vetting process. He pointed out that Ngilu had disregarded a previous assembly resolution to dismiss the duo.  “These ministers do not possess the minimum qualifications thus automatically rendering them incompetent and unqualified to continue holding office,” Kilonzo said. He said the bottom line was that the law had been blatantly violated. Kwa Vonza MCA John Kisangau said, “It was unfortunate for one to present forged certificates to this house knowingly. That in itself amounts to a violation of Chapter Six of the Constitution.” “It’s not easy to acquire a degree but our young people want to use shortcuts to enrich themselves,” Kanziku MCA James Munuve said as he backed the impeachment motion. Tharaka MCA Fredrick Nthuri termed the alleged forgery of degree certificates “criminal”. Kyuso MCA Stephen Musili said the impeachment was not meant to hurt anyone. “We don’t expect to cause any pain or suffering to anybody, but we are just trying to safeguard money for our people so that it doesn’t go to waste,” he pointed.