 Patients continue to suffer in Kisumu public health facilities as unions and the county government trade blames over salary standoff and work boycott. The county government says it honoured the salary obligations in a back-to-work agreement signed on September 26, but the workers' unions maintain that is not the situation. The workers have been on strike for three weeks over salary arrears. Nurses, in particular, have been on and off strikes since July. Those who cannot afford treatment in private hospitals and clinics travel to Kakamega, Vihiga, Kericho and Siaya for health care. Yesterday, the Star found only a few nurses attending to patients at the Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Teaching and Referral Hospital. There were no patients at Kisumu, Ahero, Pap Onditi, Kombewa and Muhoroni subcounty hospitals. Health workers told the Star on condition of anonymity that the situation is bad and that the lives of those due for operations are at risk. “People are dying in these facilities. The county leadership has turned a blind eye,” one of the workers said. Kenya Medical Practitioners, Pharmacists and Dentists Union says the health crisis will only end after the Anyang' Nyong’o-led government acts on its demands. Its Nyanza branch chairman Kevin Osuri said Governor Nyong’o is yet to remit its 200 members' statutory deductions and loans to banks and saccos. “We’ve made it clear to Nyong’o that we are not negotiating on the salary issue. It must be paid,” he said. The Kenya National Union of Nurses said on Monday through branch secretary   Maurice Opetu: “We will only resume work after all our salaries and all deductions are remitted to banks." Health and Sanitation executive Judith Attyang’ maintained that they have met all salary obligations. “All workers must report to their working stations. Failure to do so will be treated as abscondment of duty and firmly dealt with in accordance with the law,” she said in a letter copied to all unions. An October 4 statement by KNUN, KMPDU and three other unions – CUCO, KNUMLO and UKCS –  accused the county of not being committed to honouring their demands. "As at now, there is no money in the workers' accounts. We, therefore, advise workers to stay away from their workplaces until all salaries are paid.” The county government signed an agreement with the unions to have all the dues and accrued deductions for the past three months paid by October 4. County spokesperson Aloice Ager said yesterday: "All the dues have been paid. The workers should consult their banks." KMPDU Kisumu secretary-general Lameck Omweri said they had not been paid for four months and told members to keep away from public hospitals until their demands are met. Omweri, in a letter to Nyong’o, said the payment of salaries and remittance of deductions were not negotiable and dismissed as "alien document" the September 26 return-to-work agreement. "We were treated to yet another comical and regrettable return-to-work formula that the county government of Kisumu signed with itself on September 26. That is an alien document to KMPDU,” he said. The agreement has the signatures of county secretary Godfrey Kigochi, chief officer of Health Dickens Onyango and union officials. Last week, Finance executive said the county has paid salaries and asked health workers who have been on strike to resume duty. Kisumu spends Sh300 million monthly on staff salaries.   