Multiple yellow stickers hanging over a tomato farm near Kagumo town, Kirinyaga county attract the attention of farmers. The radiant stickers are used as a pest control method to attract insects such as aphids and whiteflies that attack tomatoes. They are smeared with an adhesive which traps and then kills the insects. Every six months, the stickers are changed because once they trap dust, they become ineffective. Elijah Njaria, the farm owner says hanging the yellow stickers is one of the bio pest control methods he has adopted for his farm. His farm serves as a demonstration for farmers in the county on the use of environmentally safe biopesticides. “No synthetic pesticides are used in the one-acre portion of land under the tomato cultivation,” Njaria says. He says many synthetic pesticides contain hazardous chemicals that are a threat to human health and the environment. Globally, pesticides have been blamed for plummeting bee populations which are crucial in food production as they pollinate close to three-quarters of all crops. Fredrick Mutuota, a bee expert in Kirinyaga says the declining bee population led to the total ban of the widely used insecticide deneonicotinoids, by the European Union in 2018. In contrast, he says, the biopesticides, made of naturally derived substances, microorganism and plant-based protectants, targets specific pest and insects and do not pollute the surroundings To sustainably control moths that plague tomatoes, Njaria uses sex pheromones which frustrate the insects mating efforts. Female moths produce pheromones to attract males. “We apply pheromones on an adhesive paper placed with a brightly coloured trap, the colour and the pheromones attract the male moths to the trap where they stick and die,” Njaria says. He said when the males are wiped out, females cannot reproduce and the population dies off. A light water trap (a light bulb suspended on a rod above a basin of water) has also proven effective in getting rid of insects which are drawn to light. When the bulb is lit at night, the light and the warmth produced attracts a range of insects which then drown in the water. The trap controls pests such as aphids and whiteflies. When combined with extracts from various plants, it acts as insects repellants too. This is because certain plants produce chemicals that act as natural deterrents to pests. “The whiteflies are harmful to the tomato plants as they suck the sap from the plant, drying it up in the process,” Njaria said. A mixture of tobacco, aloe vera extracts, ground chilli peppers and rosemary leaves effectively ward off insects. Kirinyaga county executive for Agriculture Jackline Njogu says they are encouraging the farmers to adopt the integrated pest management as Njaria has done. She says the use of natural pest control encourages the growth of healthy crops with minimal possible disruption to agroecosystem. To control bigger pests like the butterflies, Njogu says, farmers are advised to use a shade net which covers the crops around the farm. “The net acts as a physical barrier to prevent multiple insects and birds that roam the surroundings from accessing the farm,” she said. An extension officer with the county government Mary Thimbu says they have also been educating the farmers on the use of another natural pest control method. In this method, farmers suffocate the insects through spreading manure and water on cultivated land and covering it with a polythene bag. Besides preventing eggs from hatching, this technique promotes the buildup of beneficial micro-organism in the soils. Deputy institute director at KARLO Thika Jess Kambaka said they were now out to train the farmers on the integrated pest management. The plant pathologist said it is possible to use technology which will help reduce pesticide and chemical use. (edited by O. Owino)