KENYA Ports Authority (KPA) women’s team started off their FIBA Africa Zone Five camp with a morale-boosting century wins over two Nairobi-based teams in Premier League matches in Mombasa. Coach Mike Opel said the team has gathered steam ahead of the Dar-es-salaam festival that throws off in under two weeks. He said all his Nairobi-based stars will now fully move to Mombasa as they embark on serious training. “In three league matches, we have scored over 100 points against our opponents and this shows we now mean business. It is clear what the girls can do if they train together as a team.” He went on: “I am now having all my players here in Mombasa and they are picking up well. Our defence has started to give our opponents problems and we will continue doing this daily in our two-day sessions.” Ruthless KPA yesterday proved they will be the team to beat in Tanzania regional event after running over Africa Nazarene University 110-35 at their Makande Welfare hall backyard. The previous day, they walloped Tangit Sparks 103-20 after a 44-12 half-time lead. Gaudencia Peter top-scored for the winners with 20 points with Hilda Indasi and Christine Akinyi posting 16 points apiece. KPA men, on the other hand, whacked Lakeside 88-54 with Valentine Nyakida (21) and Ken Wachira (17) top-scoring for the winners. Dennis Wekesa nailed 14 for the Kisumu side. At the Nyayo Stadium, Nairobi, Equity Bank beat Kenya College of Accountancy (KCA) University 58-47. Moses Wanjara led the bankers with 11 points while George Obimbo tallied 12 for the students. Strathmore University Blades shut out World Hope 83-56. Joseph Ongoro bagged 20 points for the winners as  Eugene Jenga made the losers’ 15. Emyba nipped United States International University (USIU) Tigers 67-53. Brian Kuria scored 19 points for Emyba while Gabriel Ortega hit the Tigers’ 11. Women champions Equity Bank blanked relegated Western Delight 96-29. Linda Alando was good for 21 points for the top-seeded bankers. In the lower Division, Kenya Airport Authority (KAA) lost 70-66 to Barclays Bank despite a 30 points outage from Collins Adodi.