Stop bickering and start working for the people of Nairobi was the message Nairobi MCAs had on Sunday for Governor Mike Sonko and Majority leader Abdi Hassan Guyo. The differences between the two were played out in the county assembly last week when Speaker Beatrice Elachi tried to return to her office. Elachi had been impeached but the court reinstated her. The wards reps said the governor and Guyo are the two most powerful leaders in Nairobi and it was important that they work together. Sonko is out of the country but his director of communications, Elkana Jacob, told the Star that the governor had never fought with the assembly leadership. His interest is to transform Nairobi and not play politics, Jacob said. The MCAs, led by Majority Whip Waithera Chege, said they want a ceasefire to avoid divisions in Jubilee and the assembly. Guyo did not respond to our calls and texts. Elachi too could not be reached by phone. "The extent to which things went last week is unfortunate. As Jubilee MCAs, we have enjoyed good leadership under Guyo and he has never brought division nor made us turn against the governor. He has always stood by Sonko," Waithera said. As if pointing an accusing finger at the Speaker, she said the assembly has been peaceful until the return of Elachi. Thugs took over the assembly and her offices, last week, causing destruction and damage to property. Speculation has been rife that Sonko has fallen out with MCAs over random suspension and sacking of executives and workers. On his part, Sonko accuses MCAs of impunity and abetting corruption at City Hall. He told them not to value the careers of 16 officers at the expense of city residents. The 16 were suspended after the collapse of part of Dagoretti's Precious Talent School in which eight pupils died on September 23. Nominated MCA Leah Naikanae said the MCAs have the mandate to question the executive and that should not have been the reason for the governor to fall out with the Majority leader. “I don’t see any wrong with the Majority leader questioning the suspensions or asking for statements. Maybe it took the governor by surprise but Guyo has always been in support of Sonko,” she said. Nominated MCA Silvyia Museiya said Guyo and Sonko control two but connected offices. “Both leaders have (since the second assembly) been in a very good working relationship and we have seen the fruits. I don't know why they are at loggerheads over a small issue,” she said. Museiya said the matter was a Jubilee party affair and asked the opposition not interfere. “Both Sonko and Guyo should work together to deliver the mandate of the party; Sonko being the Governor should support the Guyo and in return, Guyo should show goodwill,” she said Condemning the chaos that erupted in the assembly last week at the County Assembly, Museiya stated that it was a total embarrassment that leaders can use youth to promote violence instead of creating more jobs for them. Roysambu MCA Peter Warutere who is a very close ally to both Sonko and Guyo said both should be serious. He explained that he had spoken to both Sonko and Guyo and reminded them that as the Jubilee Party, they won’t be able to deliver its manifesto and support the President’s Big Four if the two leader are quarrelling. “These two leaders have been brothers and small differences should not set them apart,” Warutere said. Mihango MCA Paul Kardos said the presence of thugs in the assembly who causedf destruction and tension took the MCAs by surprise. “We were at ease and then we were shocked to see and hear goons in the assembly shouting 'Sonko aheshimiwe', yet we have no problem with the Governor. Guyo is our assembly Majority leader and there is no time he has ever brought violence among us or in the assembly,” he said. Nominated MCA Mbugua Kabiro said services for Nairobi was bigger than grudges between the two leaders. “It takes a strong person to say they're sorry and an even stronger person to forgive. Let them just shake hands and life moves on. The party and county are bigger than they are,"  he said. Jubilee MCAs are to meet at the Jubilee Party headquarters in Nairobi on Wednesday to discuss the melee and political stalemate. (Edited by V. Graham) 