Businessman Peter Karanja who is accused of killing Dutch businessman Tob Cohen has asked the court to release him on bail. Last week, the High Court granted Cohen's widow Sarah Wairimu a Sh2 million cash bail for the same offence. Karanja is alleged to have murdered Cohen on the night of June 19 and 20. Through his lawyers he asked the court to release him on bail arguing that he has been in custody for over 30 days. Karanja says he is willing and able to abide by any terms and conditions that the court may impose. “I have been extremely cooperative with the investigators despite treating me inhumanely without due regard to my delicate diabetic condition despite the Hon. S. Atambo [senior principal magistrate] clearly ordering the investigators to avail proper medical attention while in custody,” he said. Karanja claims it was not until he complained through his lawyers to the Director of Criminal Investigations and the Director of Public Prosecutions that they rushed him to a clinic within the DCI headquarters. “I was on various days taken from custody at Kiambu and taken to DCI headquarters under the guise of interrogations and questioning in the wee hours of the night running up to 2am,” he says. The suspect argues that this was not right and was only meant to physically and mentally torture him for purposes of obtaining information which he could not provide. “Indeed, the court ordered that I be taken to Kenyatta National Hospital and the results confirmed that the sugar levels were poorly controlled while in remand, rising to as high as almost 20. This is almost triple the normal range, hence an emergency,” he says. Yesterday, Justice Daniel Ogembo directed Karanja to serve all the parties in the case with the application and appear in court on Tuesday next week when they will be heard. The prosecution is expected to consolidate Warimu’s case with Karanja's because they argue that the particulars of the offence are the same, meaning they are co- accused. However, lawyer Philip Murgor said he would formally oppose the application when the matter comes up in court at the next hearing date. Meanwhile, lawyer Donald Kipkorir has been appointed by DCI George Kinoti to represent him in the case where Sarah Wairimu has sued him for contempt of court. In a letter to lawyer Philip Murgor, Kipkorir says that he has been retained by Kinoti to act for him in the matter. “That at the moment he is out of the country on official assignment but read online that you filed contempt proceedings against him,” the lawyer said. Kipkorir says that Kinoti has inquired from his office and they confirmed that Murgor has not served them with the application.