Jubilee grassroots campaigners at Kibra are a happy lot after senior party officials and legislators promised them plum jobs should their candidate McDonald Mariga win the November 7 by-election. However, a Jubilee MCA whispered to Corridors that party bigwigs have not fulfilled the promises they made in the last elections. The ward rep said most of his friends who worked for the party tirelessly day and night are still jobless even after President Uhuru Kenyatta won the elections. Empty promises, he concluded, citing the nine pledged stadia. He said it will come as no surprise if the party abandons those currently working hard to popularise Mariga, even if he wins. A Cabinet Secretary who was on the spot for giving companies associated with him business during major events is courting more trouble. He is said to have unilaterally created a department in the ministry. Perplexed observers say this is a ploy to siphon funds from the other departments. Departmental heads say the CS has been soliciting ideas and implementing them in a way that lines his pockets. Insiders say the CS has been talking big and painting the picture to appointing authorities and the pubic of a selfless civil servant,  yet the numbers he promised have stagnated. A Principal Secretary who has been on the rampage with his Cabinet Secretary has set tongues wagging over his behaviour and mannerisms. The State official has sent males in the ministry scampering to their safety corners given his sexual orientation. So smooth and sultry are his ways that he is causing men to panic. Corridors understands staff in the docket are offended at how the PS has been pouting his lips, sashaying his waist and speaking with a mellow drawl. This makes them keep off meetings at certain hours  and during trips out of town. It all seemed preposterous when it emerged that a male MCA in Kakamega had been admitted to hospital after his female colleague beat him up at the county assembly premises. The nature of his injuries could not be disclosed. He denied he insulted her but did not respond to further calls or texts seeking his comment on the matter. But when the Deputy President William Ruto visited the county for an educational event in Mumias East, the ward rep could not afford to miss the occasion. A resident told Corridors that the MCA was in high spirits, perhaps having healed miraculously.