National Super League run-away leaders Nairobi City Stars will look to maintain their six-point lead when they take on Fortune Sacco today at Hope Centre. The former Kenyan Premier League moneybags are enjoying a form of their life in the ongoing campaign and look like perfect candidates for automatic promotion. Since take-over by Jonathan Jackson Foundation, the Kawangware-based outfit have been firing from all cylinders. They also made a massive statement in their bid to return to the top flight by assembling a unit made up of experienced players during the just-ended transfer window. Today, a win against the 14th-placed opponent will take their tally to 28 points. Meanwhile, fans at the Mumias Sports Complex will hope the derby pitting Vihiga United and debutants Vihiga Bullets will live to its billing when the two battle for the bragging rights. United, who returned to the second tier after finishing second from bottom in the previous KPL season are lying fifth with 16 points while Bullets are tenth with 13. Second-placed Bidco United will hope to slice the gap between them and City Stars, to three, when they confront a high-flying Shabana at Thika Stadium. This, however, will only happen if Fortune Sacco upset City Stars. Similarly, Migori Youth, who are third, will be seeking to keep tabs with the leading pack when they host former KPL outfit Ushuru at the Awendo Green Stadium. Migori have punched above their weights to rub shoulders with the best and will be out to extend their rich form against the redemption-seeking Ushuru who are sixth with 16 points. Ushuru are winless in their last two matches. FC Talanta will be hoping to return to their winning ways when they accost Mt Kenya United at Camp Toyoyo. Talanta head coach Abdallah Juma will be boosted by the return of players who had downed tools in their previous encounter in Kirinyaga where they battled Sacco to a barren draw. Against Sacco, Talanta had to field their first-choice goalkeeper Joel Bataro as the lead striker thanks to a quorum hitch. Meanwhile, Northern Wanderers and APS Bomet will be seeking their first win of the season when they play Administration Police and Modern Coast Rangers at Camp Toyoyo and Serani grounds respectively. Kenya Police face St Joseph Youth at Karuturi grounds while Murang'a Seal will entertain Nairobi Stima in Thika. Coast Stima host Kibera Black Stars at Mbaraki Stadium.