Bomet Senator Christopher Langat has said he is ready to iron out his differences with Governor Hillary Barchok to enable the county to move forward. In a turn of events after his recent outburst on county staff, which seemingly targeted the governor, Langat said on Wednesday that he was only doing his oversight work and was in no way overstepping his mandate. An apologetic senator said the only way to ensure service delivery to residents is if  all leaders can put aside their differences and form a united front. Speaking to the Star, the senator said, “I am not ready to part ways with the governor at all. I am willing to sit with him and talk with a view of addressing the issues facing our people so that we can move forward.” He, however, faulted the governor for failing to unite the county leadership saying, “The late Governor Joyce Laboso used to call us for a meeting every month but it is surprising Barchok is yet to embrace such an idea which is to us if for the good of the county.” The senator had on October 19 blamed particular health officials for the shortage of drugs. Langat had taken on some county health officials. "There is a man who does not know his roles ... who seems not to understand his role. That is why we have a shortage of drugs in our health facilities." On Wednesday last week, Barchok lectured the senator over his attacks on some county staff, asking him to stop ‘fighting’ his employees. He told Langat to stop inciting the public against county officials over the shortage of drugs in health facilities. He further told the senator to stick to his lane. Barchok said it was absurd for the senator to incite residents against public officers by accusing them of failing to ensure the availability of drugs, yet he was aware of the financial challenges counties have been facing for three months. “I'm ready to offer him some lessons on what his roles are,” the governor said. Barchok promised to always defend his officers if they were right. “The senator should attack me instead of my officers...I am ready to break ranks with him if that is what he wants,” he said. On the appointment of a deputy governor, the senator said it was the prerogative of the governor as he has no problem with it. “I have no problem with that because if the governor is comfortable without him or her then he can move… it is the shoe wearer who knows where it pinches,” Langat said.    