 Former Meru Governor Peter Munya continues to lose key allies to incumbent Kiraitu Murungi. The Trade Cabinet Secretary was at the weekend dealt a blow after the defection of his 2017 running mate Peter Kaberia to the governor. Kiraitu was at hand to receive Kaberia, who was also Party of National Unity’s national treasurer, alongside Steve Mwenda, Mugambi Kiroria, former Igembe North MP Ntoitha M’Mithiaru and businessman Kiriinya Nairuti. They were introduced to the governor by Mugambi Imanyara, the Kenya Industrial Estates board chairman, who had earlier ditched Munya’s camp and declared his support for Kiraitu. Kiraitu's political harvest happened in South Imenti during a graduation thanksgiving ceremony of Susan Kimathi, the wife Gideon Kimathi (chief of staff), on Saturday. Some Munya supporters described the defection as a betrayal. Others viewed it as an extension of the handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga. Kiraitu said, “It is important for all leaders to pull in the same direction and avoid politics of division. I am blessed to have new friends who have come to join us.” Others who have left the Munya camp for Kiraitu are Tigania East MP Gichunge Kabeabea and Acquilino Thilange, a longtime ally of Munya from the time he was the Tigania East MP. “We can compete but always remain together and united. Is there any problem if I support the leadership of Governor Kiraitu Murungi? Our people must understand that politics is not about enmity for development to be realised,” Kaberia said. Kiroria said he supports the unity of all Meru leaders for the realisation of development. He said he, Kimathi, Deputy Governor Titus Ntuchiu, Kiraitu and Munya had met and concluded to work together. “We don’t gain anything. I have talked to Munya, Kiraitu and we agreed to support the governor so that in case Meru is to produce a national leader, Munya is best placed and Kiraitu then remains the governor,” Mugambi said. Imanyara said it is the time people realised leaders are there to be complimented and given ample time to work for the electorate. “We support the governor and his development (agenda). I can see he is fulfilling the Jubilee manifesto in Meru so why should we not work together?” Imanyara asked. On Mashujaa Day, Ntuchiu dismissed allegations that the leaders had been corrupted by Kiraitu to abandon the Trade CS.     