The first technical training institution in Ruiru subcounty will open its doors in February next year, MP Simon King’ara has said. Speaking on Monday while inspecting the ongoing construction of the Sh100 million technical college, King’ara said the facility is 60 per cent complete. The institution is being set up on a seven-acre land in Kwihota. The project has been funded by the national government to the tune of Sh90 million. Area NG-CDF has contributed Sh10 million.. King’ara said once complete, the first batch of 500 students will get partial sponsorship from the government of Sh30,000 each. "The population in Ruiru is about 600,000 people, most of whom are youths. The facility will give the high number of youths who are grappling with unemployment a chance to access technical training on various courses,” he said. King’ara said among the courses that will be offered include electrical installations, welding and metal fabrication, hair dressing, catering, plumbing, masonry, carpentry and joinery. “These are the courses that are in hig demand and our youth will have a higher chances of securing jobs,” he said. The legislator said Ruiru has more than 100 companies that can offer jobs. A few months ago, during the official opening the Bidco Industrial Park in Tatu City, Deputy President William Ruto said most companies setting up plants in Ruiru will recruit youths who will be trained at the institution. Ruto said companies like Bidco have shown willingness to partner with the upcoming institution to offer trainees internships as well as jobs. “I have been told that about 90 per cent of workers at Bidco are graduates from TVET schools. There will be collaborations between the technical training college in Ruiru and this facility [Bidco],” Ruto said. Residents who spoke to the Star welcomed the new development, saying its construction is long overdue. Pius Muturi, a Kwihota village resident, said most youths who failed to join colleges and universities will join the technical college. “Most residents come from humble backgrounds here and parents cannot afford to take their children to technical colleges in Kiambu and Thika. With our own institution here, our children will be able to train easily,” he said. 