Residents are accusing the police of selectively evicting them from  Mwingi North Game Reserve, while allowing Somali herders to continue grazing camels. Residents of Ngomano area in Ngomeni ward, Kyuso subcounty along the border of Kitui and Tana River counties are accusing security officials of double standards. They are infuriated by the ongoing operation to flush out people who have encroached on the game reserve. The outrage mounted after a Kamba man, 35 was fatally shot on Saturday in Ngomeni by herders. The operation to kick out encroachers began more than two weeks ago. Police say it will continue until all encroachers — including herders — are evicted. Eviction is one of the measures taken to permanently end the conflict between Kamba farmers and herders of Somali origin. Resident Kakuli Mwangu from Ngomano who was evicted said they have camped at Ngomano market and live under trees. He said children spend the night in the cold and haven't been attending school. “Camel herders are still herding their cattle in the reserve and when we often go back to look at our shambas, they threaten to kill us,” Mwangu said. Resident Kakee Mutemisaid that after the eviction, camels have been grazing on their shambas which were recently cultivated in the rainy season. He said some houses were also set ablaze and foodstuffs left behind were eaten by bandits. “Which government do we belong to?  We have not seen any elected leaders come to our rescue? Was the eviction meant to benefit camel herders? " Kakee asked. Mutisya Kitheka, a mother, asked where and how they would restart their lives when their children, including newborns, spend the night in heavy rain. Kyuso subcounty police commander Charles Machinji said the eviction in Kora Park National Park and the Mwingi Game Reserve is aimed at flushing out all encroachers, regardless of tribe or place of origin. Machinji said that the operation will continue until everyone — including camel herders — are moved out. “There are hundreds of Kamba families illegally residing in the game reserve who are resisting moving out,”  Machinji said. The OCPD said it’s "a big lie" that the exercise isn’t fair, yet all people have been ordered out of the park. (Edited by V. Graham)