 EACC has widened its investigations on recruitment malpractices at the Geothermal Development Company to include the alleged irregular hiring of 11 managers at the agency. Although the company advertised for the positions as required, the process is said to have been flawed thus attracting the attention of the anti-graft agency. The commission, according to insiders, is probing allegations that seven out of the 11 managers recruited come from one community. One manager is said to have been position five during the interviews. Those who performed better were allegedly overlooked. Complaints submitted to EACC claim internal staff, including those previously serving in an acting capacity, were not considered. The commission is also investigating if the hiring was in line with the company's human resource policies and procedures. Some employees have complained that those hired were given hefty perks and privileges, including interest-free car loans, mortgage and intentional travels. Three weeks ago, EACC launched investigations into the reappointment of company CEO Johnson Ole Nchoe. He was reappointed in April by Energy Cabinet Secretary Charles Keter for a second term of three years. The move came despite the company's board of directors advise in February against a renewal of Nchoe's term. In a letter to Nchoe on September 11, EACC said it wants to establish if the company went against the human resource policies and procedures. EACC also sought to establish any wrongdoing that could have been occasioned by a conflict of interest in the reappointment, “In the process of integrity verification, the commission received allegations that the process was marred by allegations of malpractices, such as conflict of interest and breaches of GDC Human Resource Policies and Procedures,” the letter reads. EACC is also investigating whether corporate governance principles on objective recruitment exercise and separation of duties by shortlisting and conducting a first and second interview before the final selection process were followed. The commission subsequently asked the management to provide an explicit response to the allegations in addition to a full list of applicants. Also to be submitted are a list of shortlisted applicants and a copy of the company’s Human Resource Policies and Procedures, minutes, among other documents. Nchoe, a director of the Liberia Electricity Commission from 2014 to 2016, took over at GDC after the resignation of former boss Silas Simiyu in 2015. Simiyu’s resignation followed a tussle with then board chairperson Simon Gicharu. During Nchoe’s tenure, GDC’s net profit for the financial year ended June 2018 increased six-fold from Sh224 million to Sh1.4 billion. The company also received a Sh1.3 billion grant in February from the Geothermal Risk Mitigation Facility to drill six wells in Baringo county. However, Nchoe's tenure has also attracted controversies, the latest being a Sh1.4 billion loss to Hong Kong Offshore Oil Services Limited, a Chinese company that was in April 2016 contracted to drill 15-20 geothermal wells in Bogoria-Silali in Baringo county. The tender was awarded before Nchoe took office. A report by the board – led by Ann Too – showed most of the company’s field offices are lying idle as equipment worth billions remain unused. 