At least 32 people have lost their lives following heavy downpour across the country, humanitarian agency Red Cross has said. The Red Cross Action Teams across the country have also reported six injuries and 16,000 households as having been affected by the floods caused by heavy rains experienced since the second week of October. “The floods have also affected livestock and crops. An estimated 21,000 livestock have been lost across the country and 980 acres of farms destroyed. “Kenya Red Cross Society volunteers have been on high alert across the country and have responded to distress calls by various people whose houses have been affected by floodwaters,” read a Red Cross public advisory on floods. The Education Ministry has raised concerns that the rains could affect the forthcoming national examinations that will start on October 27. Basic Education PS Belio Kipsang sent a letter to his Environment counterpart seeking an update on the weather situation over the examination period. He said the update will be used to map the areas prone to weather risk and easily find a way to ensure the exams get to the candidates on time. "In order to properly and comprehensively plan for the exercise, kindly provide us with a weather advisory covering the period between October 20 and November 30. This will enable us anticipate weather changes," a letter read. Kipsang told the Star yesterday that candidates whose schools might be affected will be moved to nearby exam centres. The Kenya Meteorological Department has said there will be enhanced rainfall across the country. Marsabit, Wajir, Mandera, Turkana, Elgeiyo Marakwet, Kitui, Meru, Kajiado, Nandi, Kwale, Muranga and Busia counties will be most affected. The sporadic increase of rainfall in the Mt Kenya region including in Murang'a and Kirinyaga counties is likely to cause landslides and flash floods downstream in Garissa, Tana River and Kilifi county. “Following the release of the KMD rainfall projections for October 23-26, the society wishes to reinforce its earlier advisory to the public in the affected areas to remain vigilant to avoid loss of life. “We advise those living in low lying flood-prone areas to evacuate to higher ground as soon as the waters begin to rise. “General safety precautions including not driving or attempting to walk through fast-running waters is recommended,” read the statement form Red Cross. The society further advised residents in areas that have experienced flooding to drink treated or boiled water to avoid contamination. “Specific warnings to affected regions have already been shared via short text message (SMS) alerts advising on various safety actions. Those who may need any assistance can call our emergency line 1199,” Red Cross said. (edited by O. Owino)