Mount Kenya United picked yet another victory as they saw off Ushuru 2-1 in a crucial National Super League match at Camp Toyoyo yesterday. First-half goals from John Ndirangu and Masa Kisa rendered Brian Otieno’s second-half strike a mere consolation for James Omondi’s taxmen. “It’s disappointing to be on the losing side because of errors from the match officials. This is something the federation must work on,” complained Omondi. Mt Kenya striker Hussein Puzo warned that his side will stop at nothing to return yo KPL. “We have a lot of room for improvement. Most of us did not have a pre-season after joining the team late but we are getting to understand each other with every passing game and I am confident eventually we will come good,” remarked Puzo. Though Ushuru began the game well with Ezekiel Otuoma, Oscar Mbugua and Barrack Odhiambo asking tough questions of the Mt Kenya defence it was the latter who would draw first blood. Puzo, who was a constant menace, had a goal disallowed but after they had regrouped, they took the lead. Ushuru had an effort cleared off the line and lost concentration arguing with the referee assistant. Mt Kenya did not wait for them and launched a quick counter which ended with Ndirangu slotting the ball home in the 30th minute. Ushuru were stunned and just five minutes later, their situation got worse when Mata reacted quickest to bundle the ball into the net after Puzo’s effort had been saved by the taxmen’s shot-stopper. Mt. Kenya’s counter-attacking system was working a treat and only a debatable offside call denied them a third from Puzo on the stroke of half-time. Ushuru re-grouped in the second half and pulled one back through but the date had been done in the first half. The taxmen still have 15 points from their eight matches one more than Mount Kenya. In the other matches at the same venue, Nairobi Stima returned back to winning ways as they pipped Talanta FC 1-0. Moses Odhiambo grabbed the winning goal for Stima midway through the second half as they climbed up to third place in the standings with  17 points. Bottom of the tale Northern Wanderers were left still searching fie their first points of the campaign after goals from Abdalla Musa and About Ali gave Modern coast a 2-0 win. 