Residents of Lodwar town and its environs are struggling to find water following flooding that destroyed water sources. Three people died as a result of the heavy rain pounding the arid county and its environs. Residents have faulted the county government for lack of preparedness to deal with flooding. The problem would have been less severe if the government had built gabions, they say. Over 2,000 households in Turkana last Friday spent the night in the cold following heavy rain that caused rivers to burst their banks and displace families. Kawalase seasonal and Turkwel rivers on Friday flooded and disrupted business, transport and displaced residents. The floods killed more than 3,000 goats and destroyed water resources that serve about 70,000 people in and around Lodwar town. Lodwar resident Jacinta Ebenyo said due to the flooding they are unable to get drinking water, wash clothes, cook and bath. “We have been told there will be shortage of water in the region since the flood water destroyed boreholes that serve people but we have not been informed when the problem will be solved,” she said. She said they are forced to trek long distances in search of water for domestic use. Peter Ekai, a resident of Kanamkemer, urged the government and humanitarian agencies to respond to the flooding crisis and fix the destroyed boreholes. He said they fear an outbreak of diseases as they are forced to use dirty water. Shadrack Ekadeli of Nakwamekwi said the government should have harvested the flood water for future use by diverting it to dams. The water could help solve water scarcity that remains among the biggest problems in Turkana for many decades. Turkana Governor Josphat Nanok while assessing the affected regions in Lodwar on Saturday assured residents the boreholes will be fixed on time. “This is flooding that has not been experienced before. The intensity of water was very high resulting to blockage of water resources," he said. "Nine out of 12 boreholes that supply water to a population of about 70,000 people in Lodwar were destroyed by floods. We are trying our best to fix them immediately to avoid water shortage.” Turkana county commissioner Wambua Muthama confirmed that two men from Lodwar lost their lives due to flooding and a woman from Kalokol was struck dead by lightining during the heavy rain experienced last week on Friday. He said the flooding affected most regions of Turkana and caused damage to water resources including boreholes, Lodwar livestock and fish market, Lodwar prison infrastructure, government facilities such as the office of land where records and equipment were destroyed.