National Olympic Committee of Kenya’s president Paul Tergat has been appointed to IOC’s newly created Future Host Commissions (summer) as a member representing the NOCs. This makes two, the number of appointments by the International Olympics Committee the long-distance running legend has gotten inside the last 12 months. Tergat’s alongside other members will be charged with advising and providing recommendations regarding to future hosts for Olympic Games and Youth Olympic Games (summer) to the IOC Executive Board. The Commission will be chaired by Kristin Kloster Aasen of Norway. She will work with commissioners Richard Pound (Canada), Lingwei Li (China), Mikaela Cojuangco Jaworski (Philippines), Luis Mejia Oviedo (Dominican Republic) and Filomena Fortes (Cape Verde) from the IOC. Others include athletes Sarah Walker (New Zealand), president of the Association of Summer Olympic International Federations (ASOIF) Francesco Ricci Bitti (Italy) and IPC’s Andrew Parsons (Brazil). The military man is an IOC member and also sits in the coordination commission for the 2022 Youth Olympic Games to be hosted in Dakar, Senegal. He is the United Nations World Food Programme’s Ambassador Against Hunger and locally, Tergat is also the chair of Kenya Sports Academy. The commission is IOC’s tool for a more targeted, streamlined and flexible approach to the elections of future games host. Through the approach, IOC wants to achieve permanent dialogues will be held with interested hosts, or with potential hosts where the IOC may want to create interest. The Commission will have the mission to promote, monitor and oversee this interest from them and report to the IOC EB. While congratulating Tergat, IOC president, Thomas Bach said: “There will be a two-speed progression for the work of the Commissions. The Winter Commissions will start immediately, as the priority at this moment is the discussions about the Winter Youth Olympic Games 2024 and the Olympic Winter Games 2030.” “The Summer commission has slightly more time to enter into a dialogue with the number of various interested cities, regions and countries we have already.”