A parliamentary oversight committee has recommended that five current and former governors be investigated and prosecuted over the loss of public money. Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua and former county chiefs Cleophas Lagat (Nandi) and Samuel Ragwa (Tharaka Nithi) have been named for investigations. Siaya Governor Cornell Rasanga and former Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero should be surcharged on recommendations of the committee. The Senate County Public Accounts and Investments Committee wants the anti-corruption and the criminal investigations agencies to recover public funds from the county chiefs named. This is the first-ever report on the financial operations of the county governments since devolution began. The report reveals that top finance officers (Finance CECs, chief officers and accounting officers), under the watch of the governors, violated procurement laws and misrepresented county revenue. Thay also inflated legal fees and irregularly compensated employees among other malpractices that caused the loss of public funds. It further reveals that public money was lost through inflation and faking of pending bills, irregular procurement of goods and services, poor book and record-keeping and failure to recover imprests advanced to employees. “The committee noted that the non-compliance of the law resulted in loss of public funds and recommends that the DCI and EACC should investigate the violation of the process and law with the view to prosecuting those responsible,” the report reads. The Homa Bay Senator Moses Kajwang led-committee has filed reports for financial operations of 10 counties for 2013-14 financial year. The reports will be debated in the House today. The counties covered by the report are Nandi, Elgeyo Marakwet, Baringo, Laikipia, Machakos, West Pokot, Tharaka Nithi, Siaya, Embu and Nairobi. The reports exposed weak employee management systems, poor financial controls, budgeting and budget control and lack of audit committees that contributed to the loss of money. “The committee noted that various counties irregularly procured goods and services through single sourcing methods, kept their records and books poorly, as well as failed to automate their accounting systems. “In addition, most counties were very slow in the implementation of IFMIS systems as required by the law,” the report reads. In Machakos, the committee wants Mutua investigated for loss of taxpayers’ money through several illegal and irregular procurement of goods and services. In particular, the committee recommends Mutua be probed over the possible loss of money in the procurement of 17 generators for Sh10.40 million through restricted tendering. “The Department of Decentralised units procured and paid for one 17 KVA generator and six 9 KVA generators for Sh10,400,000 and a Cummins Power Generator with Automatic change over switch plus installation and commissioning at a cost of Sh9,257,776 through quotations which were way above the threshold for quotations,” the report reads. Further, the same department procured and paid for goods and services worth Sh8.68 million without following the procurement rules and regulations. “The committee noted the manner in which the tenders were awarded, and recommends that the CEO (governor) and the accounting officer should be investigated to provide adequate evidence that the expenditure was properly spent and therefore chargeable to public funds, with a view to holding them to account,” it says. It wants the governor and his finance officers held personally responsible for irregular and illegal transfer of Sh30 million to Kenya Rural Electrification Authority. The committee concluded that the money was illegally advanced to the authority as electrification is a function of the national government. “The committee also recommends that EACC should investigate and establish loss of funds arising from non-compliance with Article 187 of the Constitution, with a view to taking appropriate action on the officers found culpable,” the report says. In Nandi, the report indicted ex-governor Lagat for failing to bank revenue totalling to Sh844,378 collected locally. The money was not accounted for during the audit period thus possibility of it being embezzled. “The committee, further, recommends that the county CEO, the accounting officer and other officers responsible for any mismanagement of internal revenue should also be surcharged to the extent of the revenue that may have not been properly accounted for,” it says. The former county chief should be held responsible for Sh5.6 million that the county officers could not account for during Lagat’s reign, the committee says. The money was purportedly spent on planting trees including in schools and by the roadsides but the documents were not availed to auditors for scrutiny. Senate CPAIC also censured Lagat for the mismanagement of Sh8.313 million meant for bursaries for needy students in the county. The report notes that while the county officers claimed to have disbursed the cash, there was no evidence of the procedure and criteria used to identify the needy students. “The committee noted with concern the manner in which the bursaries were not properly managed and recommends that the county CEO, the accounting officer and other officers responsible for any mismanagement should be held responsible to the extent of any funds lost or not properly accounted for,” the report reads. Former Nairobi boss Kidero and his finance officers risk being surcharged for spending some Sh252.83 million at source during the financial year. “The committee noted that there was underreporting of revenue collected and this may be attributed to spending of revenue at source which is a contravention of the Article 207 (1) and Section 109 of the PFM Act,” it states. The report flagged several procurement flaws in Finance, ICT, Environment and Roads departments that could have cost the taxpayer millions of shillings. In Tharaka Nithi, former governor Ragwe could be probed over Sh12.81 million that was spent in the office of the deputy governor. No supporting documents for the expenditure were availed to auditors. “The committee recommends that since the county government did not submit documentation to the auditors contrary to the Public Audit Act Sect. 62, the CEO and CEC Finance who were in office should be investigated by the DCI, and if found culpable, prosecuted by the DPP,” it says. (edited by O. Owino)