A truckers association and a Sacco have joined calls to have the government rescind its controversial SGR-only cargo haulage policy. Truckers Association of Kenya and the Pwani Super capacity Sacco, who are mainly light transporters, on Friday said the effects of the order has trickled down to them, negatively affecting their business. “These long-distance transporters are among our main clients. If they lose business, they lose the power to buy building materials and so we suffer like them,” Sacco chair Crispus Waithaka said. He spoke during the official launch of the Sacco, which was established in 2015. Waithaka said the Sacco, which has 55 individual members with 187 trucks, has employed about 400 people including drivers and turn boys and they plan to buy more trucks as a Sacco. “Right now, the trucks we have belong to individual members. We want to buy Sacco trucks, including the long-distance trailers, which will mean increasing the number of people we employ,” said Waithaka. He, however, said the SGR haulage directive will affect these plans if there is no work for the trailers. “Our plan was to increase the number of people we employ to about 1,000 in the next 12-15 months. But that now depends on what will happen with the directive,” Waithaka said. “Let the SGR compete with the transporters and truckers,” said the Pwani Super capacity Sacco chair. The Sacco chair and his TAK counterpart Daniel Kimani said they now want a round table meeting with Transport CS James Macharia, who is expected in Mombasa this week, to iron out contentious issues that have led to protests in Mombasa. The weekly protests, organized under the Okoa Mombasa initiative, have caught the attention of the executive including President Uhuru Kenyatta, who has now instructed Macharia to take a keener look into the issues raised by the protestors. Security sources have told the Star the President now feels he may have been misadvised over the whole SGR policy and now wants a report on the extent of its effects on the ground. An independent audit firm is likely to be contracted to undertake a survey of the effects of the directive. The report on this will inform the President’s next move. Meanwhile, the Kimani and Waithaka said they also a challenge of double taxation that they are subjected to as they crisscross counties to deliver the materials to their clients. The two said the matter is hurting their businesses as they struggle to maintain profits, a huge chunk of which is eaten by the taxes. “We have taxation that cover across the board. But when we cross from one county to another we pay the same taxes in all the counties which basically means we pay the same taxes more than once,” said Kimani. However, they are in talks with the counties so as to come up with policies to rectify this. TAK has 95 trucker Saccos as members in 10 regions across the country.