Good morning, Current and former governors could soon find themselves on the radar of detectives after a parliamentary committee recommended graft investigations of their administrations. The Senate Public Accounts and Investments Committee wants at least 10 governors and seven former county chiefs investigated for the possible loss of funds during their tenures. Here are the other stories making headlines in the Star this morning. Director of Public Prosecution Noordin Haji on Tuesday called for full roll out of plea bargaining as a tool for decongesting the criminal justice system. Plea bargaining will ensure speedy resolution of cases and reduce congestion in prisons, he said. Plea bargaining is a negotiated arrangement in which an accused person agrees to enter a guilty plea in return for some concession from the prosecutor. Police officers Stephen Cheburet and Sylvia Wanjiku did not book in slain lawyer Willie Kimani and two others when they were brought into the cells on the day they were murdered. A court heard that during investigations into the disappearance of Kimani, his client Josephat Mwenda and taxi driver Joseph Muiruri, the police found out they had been held at the Syokimau AP Post but they were never booked in. The government has admitted a lack of funds to provide sanitary towels to adolescent school girls as required by law. Education CS George Magoha said on Monday that the Sh470 million provided for the free sanitary pads programme can only supply school girls for four months. "At best we can provide sanitary towels for only four months. What happens for the rest of the year?" Magoha asked. Thousands of NHIF contributors are locked out of the medical cover despite remitting their monthly dues, a parliamentary oversight committee heard on Tuesday. Acting National Hospital Insurance Fund CEO Nicodemus Odongo admitted before the Public Investment Committee that the Fund could not trace the contributors of Sh35 million.  Banks and  micro-finance institutions paid Kenya Revenue Authority Sh 207.2 billion in 2017 and 2018, indicating high compliance, according to study by PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC). This constituted of corporate tax and irrecoverable VAT by the institutions and taxes collected on behalf of the government such as PAYE and withholding tax.