Private developers are now preying on land belonging to key government institutions. Parcels of land belonging to the Kenya Veterinary Services, the Kenya Defence Forces, national parks and the Kenya Railways Corporation have been affected. The Kenya Railways announced on Monday that it will repossess and reclaim all its grabbed land. “The corporation would like to bring to the attention of the public that we are in the process of reclaiming and repossessing all corporation land and property held or vested in the Kenya Railways, which have been illegally acquired by private actors countrywide,” Kenya Railways said in an advert. Those in possession of illegal titles have until October 30 to surrender them to the Kenya Railways headquarters or be kicked out. “We also urge any person with knowledge of illegal title deeds on Kenya Railways land and property that is in possession of other persons to report to us,” the parastatal said. Those who have encroached and settled on railways reserve within Nairobi must vacate ahead of the implementation of a commuter rail service master plan. The plan seeks to decongest Nairobi by introducing light commuter rails. The corporation is also in the process of demolishing all illegal structures built on railway reserve land countrywide. This includes land along the Mombasa-Kisumu-Malaba- railway corridor, branch line (Nakuru-Kisumu, Voi-Taita, Nairobi-Nanyuki, Gilgil-Nyahururu, Kisumu-Butere, Eldoret-Kitale, Konza-Magadi and sidings. Kenya Railways said the corridor falls under Mombasa-Kisumu-Malaba meter-gauge railway line corridor and Mombasa-Suswa SGR line corridor. In July, Environment Court Judge SM Kibunja gave back a parcel in Kisumu valued at Sh35 million to the corporation. Earlier allocations to a private developer were cancelled after the judge ruled in favour of the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission. The EACC had moved to court challenging the allocation of the land to Peter Oyoo. The court found the issuance of the lease to Oyoo was null. The case was filed in 2009 by the defunct Kenya Anti-Corruption Commission. Earlier this year, the National Land Commission revoked hundreds of titles to grabbed military land. Among those who parted with 4,000 acres in Eldoret alone is the little-known entity, claiming to represent squatters – Leseru Tebeson Farmers. The Directorate of Veterinary Services has also fallen victim to the land grabbers. Its land in Kabete and other parts of the country have been grabbed. It has been appealing to the NLC to revoke title deeds allegedly acquired illegally. The alleged owners have been issuing vacation notices to workers living on the premises. Some have put up their structures on the land. National Parks and reserves have also been grabbed. In August, Tourism CS Najib Balala stopped a private developer who was putting up godowns and warehouses at the Nairobi National Park. At Tsavo East National Park in Voi, Taita Taveta, the Kenya Wildlife Service has filed a class-action suit against more than 230 individuals who it says have encroached on its park.