Marriane Kitany has accused a Catholic priest of officiating a marriage between Meru Senator Mithika Linturi and his alleged first wife Mercy Kaimenyi when he already had another family. While cross-examining Fr Jason Micheni, Kitany’s lawyer Danstan Omari told the priest the senator had two children with Susan Gacheri before his 2000 wedding to Kaimenyi. The court heard that the senator had a son with a woman named Hellen Mumbi eight years ago. Micheni told the court that he was never made aware of the fact that the senator had kids out of wedlock. Omari asked him if he had been made aware that Linturi had kids he would have officiated the marriage. The priest said it depends on circumstances. Omari asked him if Catholic laws allow him to officiate a marriage of a man with children outside marriage. However, Muthomi Thiankolu for Linturi strongly opposed the line of questioning by Omari.  He argued the marriage was not under church law as alleged by Omari arguing that it's irrelevant evidence. But things took a dramatic turn when Linturi’s lawyers accused Kitany’s team of being armed in court. They was told the court that one of the people with Kitany was armed and they wanted him thrown out of court or disarmed before they continued. However, a defiant Omari said his client’s life was in danger and she needed to be protected from Linturi who has threatened her before. “Your honour, my client has her own security arrangements because of the nature of the case and for her own safety,” he said. Muthomi asked the bodyguard to surrender his firearm to court and he will be given back after the session. In his ruling, chief magistrate Peter Gesora said there were experts in charge of security and the OCS would handle the situation but ordered the case to proceed. A few minutes later police officers came in and ushered out the armed bodyguard who returned in a short while and sat down near Kitany. The priest was also told that the person he had come to defend in court as still married had written in his application to the University of Nairobi that he was separated.