Suspect Peter Karanja’s bail ruling took a fresh twist yesterday when Gilgil MP Martha Wangari sought to be enjoined in the matter. But the court declined. Justice Daniel Ogembo dismissed Wangari’s application, ruling that she was not party to the case. Judge Ogembo ruled that the MP could not be an interested party in a criminal case. Karanja, who is charged with the murder of Dutch businessman Tob Cohen, says Wangari was his wife and they have two children. He has listed their alleged matrimonial home in Gilgil as his place of abode in his bail application. In a pre-bail report, Karanja says he lived in the house when he was arrested. However, Wangari’s lawyer George Kimani told the court the house was in dispute and does not belong to Karanja. In an affidavit, Wangari says she was aware Karanja made a bail application saying he owns a property at Gilgil town known as Gilgil Teachers Project Plot No. 063, which is false. She says the house is her property and Karanja has no rights of ownership or occupancy. He therefore cannot persuade the court that he has any fixed abode in Gilgil. Wangari says the house in question is contested due to Karanja's attempts to illegally occupy it on false allegations that she was his customary law wife. “I aver that the accused's known home is at Miti Mingi, Gilgil, where he hails from and where his parents are resident and the local administration can confirm this as he has no fixed abode in Gilgil town,” Wangari says. The legislator says Karanja was an acquaintance with whom she long separated. She had never been his wife and was ready to adduce evidence. But Cohen's lawyers, Karanja’s and the prosecution opposed Wangari being enjoined, arguing that she was a stranger to the case. The prosecution argued that the matter before court was not a divorce case nor a land dispute but a murder case. The court will deliver the bail ruling on Tuesday next week after going through the pre-bail report presented in court. The report prepared by probation officer Andrew Kanyutu says Karanja comes from Gema village and is a father of four children from two marriages. “He is an active member of the Kingdom Seekers Fellowship Church and is much involved in charitable work in Gilgil and his pastor Rev Peter Kagunya has kind words about his character,” the report reads. Karanja also says that he is a former deacon with Charismata Revival Church in Nakuru from 1995 to 2003. He stopped taking alcohol in 2017 and has never indulged in drug abuse. “The accused has positive social support from family and associates from church and in business. They highly vouch for his character and that he is one person who is not a flight risk given that he has invested heavily at his rural home and in Gilgil,” the report states. The accused's family states that they are ready to bail him out using various options such as through his grandmother’s one acre in Kekopey in Gilgil and the log book of one Agnes Muriuki The report furher said Karanja spends his leisure time at Parklands Sports Club doing physical exercises. He says he is currently in building and construction sector operating under two registered firms, Pernest Agency Building and Civil Contractors and Pacesetters Logistics Ltd. He was first married to Grace Wanjiru a teacher in Nakuru and they had two children who are now adults. One his sons, lawyer Francis Karanja, was in court to represent him in the murder case. “He separated from Wanjiru when the kids were young but he continued providing support for their upkeep and education needs, according to his son,” the report says. He says he married Wangari in 2010 through Kikuyu customs and they have two children aged six and four. He says the marriage is on the rocks after a bitter separation but the children live with their mother and he pays for their maintenance.