A section of Taita Taveta leaders wants President Uhuru Kenyatta to appoint one of their own as the chairperson of the Kenya Ferry Services board. The appointee will replace Dan Mwazo whose appointment was revoked following the September 29 Likoni ferry tragedy in which a woman and her daughter were killed. In a special gazette notice dated October 16, Uhuru fired Mwazo and board members Daula Omar, Naima Amir, Philip Ndolo and Rosina Mruttu. The leaders, among them Deputy Governor Majala Mlagui, said the county suffered a blow since two of the ousted KFS members are from the county. “Now that the head of state has decided to fire two of our people in the board, we are pleading with him to consider replacing them with other qualified people from within,” Mlagui said at the Mashujaa Day celebrations in Mombasa. KFS has been on the spot after the tragedy in which a car slipped off the MV Harambee and plunged into the Indian Ocean killing Mariam Kighenda, 36, and her four-year-old daughter Amanda Mutheu. Majala, who spoke at Ghazi in Voi constituency, accused President Kenyatta of "sidelining the youth in government jobs and appointments". "Mwazo and Mruttu are just a small fraction of our people who got government appointments. We need to be given more slots in government,” she said. The sidelining, she said, has highly contributed to joblessness among the youth and an increase in poverty in the county. “The President holds a special position at the United Nations, representing the youth. However, today we say without fear that he has let down the youth of this nation. He is busy dishing out appointments to the elderly people and ignoring the young generation,” the deputy governor said. Most of the appointees, she claimed, have been adversely mentioned in corruption scandals "thereby making the fight against graft a nightmare". Voi MP Jones Mlolwa asked the government to allocate more slots during the upcoming Kenya Defence Forces recruitment to the marginalised communities. He noted that centralised recruitment would lock out some potential youth, further urging the exercise to be extended to the subcounty level. “They should consider the vastness of our county during such important exercises, otherwise, our youth will miss out. Let it be done in every subcounty as it has been before,” the legislator said. Edited by R.Wamochie