Continuous wrangles between Taita Taveta MCAs and Governor Granton Samboja is slowly killing devolution, Mwatate MP Andrew Mwadime has said. Mwadime asked the two teams to drop their hard stances, keep off from early campaigns and end the over three-month standoff. “Time will come for everyone to campaign and we shall be held responsible if we shall fail to deliver our mandates. “Let us sober up and dialogue because eventually we shall kill the county if this impasse continues,” the legislator said on Saturday. The governor is at war with the Assembly over the 2019/2020 budget. He declined to ascent to the Sh5.8 billion passed by MCAs citing irregular allocation of funds under the Ward Development kitty. Both sides have not budged and mediation talks chaired by ACK Bishop Liverson Mng’onda have since failed. Samboja was impeached last week after MCAs unanimously voted in favour of a special motion by the Deputy Majority Leader and Rong’e MCA Harris Keke. They accused the first-time governor of gross misconduct, misleading the County Assembly, misappropriation of funds, stalled projects and misrepresentation of facts to the public with an aim of inciting the public against the County Assembly. Other grounds for his removal included failure to submit to the County Assembly an annual report on the implementation status of the county policies and plans as required by the County Government Act, 2012 and failure to adhere to County Assembly resolution on ratification of Davis Mwangoma as the acting County Executive Committee Member for Finance and Economic Planning. However, his impeachment was short-lived as the court suspended the MCAs decision on Friday. Justice James Makau issued the conservatory orders barring the Speaker of the county from submitting to the Senate the resolution recommending the impeachment of the governor. Senator Jones Mwaruma distanced himself from the Assembly decision, noting that he shall not support the impeachment once the motion is tabled in Senate. He said the move to oust Samboja spoiled the spirit of mediation that had kicked off. “Being part of the mediation team, I shall strongly reject the motion because I believe we have not reached a point of removing our county boss. “This was a very ill-advised move by the Assembly. Although it is their constitutional mandate, it was not the right time,” Mwaruma said.