Nairobi's Upper Hill will be home to the largest business co-working space with the 10th Regus business centre set to be hosted at Britam Towers. “We’ve seen great demand in Nairobi in a short space of time,” said Joanne Bushell, managing mirector and VP Sales in Africa for Internatuonal Workpace Group. "With advances in technology and an increase in urbanisation, flexibility is becoming one of the key factors in assessing new career opportunities, as well as being a crucial element for companies to attract new customers," she said. The space will be officially opened on October 31, and is expected to cater to the influx of international businesses setting up Kenya. These office spaces can be booked for anything from one hour to several years through a mobile app. The pricing varies from $12 (Sh1,200) a day or a virtual office from $2 (Sh200). The model is becoming increasingly popular across urban areas in Africa, as it allows growing businesses and startups to scale sensibly, keep their overheads down, avoid long leases and retain talent by giving employees a better work-life balance. Among other budding flexible workspaces by Regus are coworkig lounges in Westlands, Kilimani, Nairobi Central District and Kitisuru which opened its doors this year. “In the past year, the demand for flexible workspaces in Kenya has skyrocketed and it is to satisfy this demand that we have decided to add another option for businesses, freelancers and corporates in Nairobi,” Bushell said. Regus provides businesses with the flexibility to grow without risk or commitment, and attracts a diverse network of 2.5 million people, from entrepreneurs and SMEs to multi-national blue-chip companies. These fully equipped flexible office spaces can be booked for anything from one hour to several years via a single mobile app for as little as $350 a month (or $12 a day), or a virtual office from $3,10 per person a day. With a few taps on a smart phone, users have access to all the Regus centres in Nairobi – as well as its 3,200 locations in 110 countries around the world.