The damage caused by the recent flash floods in Mandera county is estimated at Sh2 billion in losses, Governor Ali Roba has said. The floods killed livestock, destroyed dams and pans, washed away properties and caused damages to roads infrastructure, underground tanks among others. Roba, however, said that the negative impact of rains was not anywhere near the destruction caused by drought. “I know it is a normal behaviour of mankind. If we are in distress we complain, and if we have abundance we complain. There is no situation that is perfect for us,” he said. The governor spoke at Moi Stadium in Mandera town during Mashujaa Day celebrations. “While we may not be able to correct all destruction and return to our original position, we will certainly respond to mitigate the impacts and reduce the severity of its negative impacts on human beings,” he added. Roba appealed to partners and donor organisations to help “with whatever they can to support us mitigate these challenges”. The county chief urged all communities to make sure the current rains have been utilised properly through rain-fed farming in the flood plains. He called on all the communities in the county to peacefully co-exists and not allow to be divided along clan lines. In Banisa, 15 people were recently killed by suspected armed bandits. “Just as we breathed a sigh of relief from the tribal conflicts, persistent terror attacks, the biting droughts in our county, our relief is rudely interrupted by these senseless killings of innocent people going about their daily lives,” he said. This is completely unacceptable and we will not watch as this madness goes on, Roba said. “We refuse to go back to that painful state characterised by human suffering. The people of Mandera should know too well the price of conflict,” Roba said The governor said the county cannot slide back to the events of 2013-2015, and that all must protect the relative calm we have been enjoying since. Mandera county commissioner Onesmus Kyatha warned that the government will act firmly of on anybody hell-bent on breaking the law and causing insecurity. He said the government has arrested five people in connection to the Banisa killings and is still following crucial leads to apprehend others who will soon be arraigned. "We will not spare anybody irrespective of their status in society. We will arrest both planners and executors of the heinous act," Kyatha said. (edited by O. Owino)