Kenyan champions Gor Mahia’s hopes of gracing the group stages of the Caf Confederations Cup for the third time in a row hang in the balance after settling for a one-all draw against DC Motema Pembe of DR Congo. The result leaves Gor with an herculean task of forking out an away win or a high scoring draw in the return leg set for next week. However, coach Steven Polack is optimistic of upsetting Pembe at their backyard despite preparing for the return leg without the services of their centre half Charles Momanyi who saw red yesterday. “The result doesn’t mean that we have bowed out of the competition. We have to prepare for the return leg and most importantly inject a mentality of overturning the result. We have a couple of injured players but that doesn’t put me under pressure.” The match was delayed for 15 minutes as the visitors cited a clash of the shirt colours. They alleged that Gor goalkeeper David Mapigano’s shirt colour (Orange) was synonymous to theirs (red) and hence the Tanzanian shot-stopper was forced to put on a different one. Apparently, Motema Pembe had accepted the colours during the pre-match briefing. The home side created a handful of scoring chances in the first half but could not tap the ball past Barely Mouko who denied Nicholas Kipkirui and Lawrence Juma in the opening minutes. Pembe were forced to make an early substitution as left-back Ngimbi Mapangu was stretched off with an ankle injury. Henoc Inonga took up his role. After a goalless first half, coach Polack made his first substitution, bringing in towering Ivorian striker Gislein Yikpe for Boniface Omondi. The change paid dividends in the 61st minute as Yikpe who was making his debut at the continental tournament tapped in the opening goal with his first touch to open his goal account with the club. The celebrations did not last long as William Luezi levelled for the visitors five minutes later after Mapigano punched the ball into play from a free-kick. Mapigano, who seemed shaky, however, redeemed himself by saving Vinny Kombe’s penalty awarded after Momanyi stopped a goal-bound shot using his arm, earning his marching orders from Algerian centre referee Lofti Bekousa. The numerical advantage by Pembe saw them dominate proceedings but could not find the back of the net to separate the two teams. The return match is scheduled for November 3 in DR Congo.