 The Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development has cautioned teachers against recommending books that are not approved for learning. KICD chief executive Julius Jwan on Tuesday accused some headteachers of colluding with publishers to recommend books that are not approved by the agency. The headteachers, he said, get a cut from the sales made to the school while parents buy the books unaware that they were exposing their children to unapproved content. He said such a move put the children at risk of radicalisation. “Headteachers should only recommend books that have been approved. Before we clear any book, we consider all factors to ensure it is good for learning,” Jwan said. He said some publishers were borrowing content from books used in other countries. He said such content was not applicable locally. Jwan said the government has published a list of books that are approved for Competence Based Curriculum especially for Grade 4 to cushion parents from buying counterfeits. He said each of the textbooks published comes with a teaching guide and that KICD has also produced handbooks that are distributed alongside the textbooks. Jwan spoke in Murang'a on Wednesday during the monitoring of the distribution of KCPE exam papers. He said the government was in the process of distributing Grade 4 textbooks. “We have already distributed the books in the Nairobi region and the rest of the country will receive theirs before the end of the year,” he said. He urged parents to check whether books they have been asked to buy are in the published list. Jwan said the implementation of the CBC was taking off smoothly and that majority of the hurdles previously faced have been resolved. He said the impact of the new curriculum was already being felt and publicly manifested, citing the July case when children cleaned up the environment as part of learning. “We saw the children make wheelbarrows out of cartons and aprons out of sacks. The creativity they put in it is what is being encouraged by the CBC,” Jwan said. He said through the new curriculum, children will engage in activities through which they will acquire certain competencies.  edited by peter obuya