The hearing of a case in which the impeached Kisumu assembly speaker Onyango Oloo is challenging his removal is set for Tuesday. The hearing in Kisumu will coincide with that of a suit filed by the county assembly seeking to recover assets from Oloo. In an application filed under a certificate of urgency, Oloo claimed there were irregularities in his removal. In the suit filed last month, Oloo sought that the court reinstates him pending the hearing and determination of the case. The county assembly and the county assembly service board are respondents in the suit. Acting speaker Elisha Oraro and two others are listed as interested parties. In the impeachment motion last month, MCAs cited an active corruption investigation at the Lake Basin Development Authority against the speaker. The ward reps urged the speaker to resign until the probe is completed. Oloo claims that his replacement by Oraro contravened the provisions of Article 178 (1) of the Constitution. Oloo is also fighting to have all the benefits, allowances and privileges he enjoyed as the speaker of the county assembly reinstated to him. In the application, Oloo has sought six orders from the court. The ousted speaker also wants the court to issue an order stopping the county assembly from implementing the resolution to impeach him. He also wants the OCS Kisumu central police station to oversee the implementation of the court orders. In court documents, Oloo claims that he was not allowed to defend himself against allegations raised. He says in his affidavit that he was served with a letter a day after he was impeached informing him of the various changes of leadership at the assembly. He also received a request to hand over a motor vehicle. However, his lawyer Muga Apondi noted that the actions by the assembly resulted in an infringement on his fundamental rights and freedoms. “It is in the interest of justice that this honourable court intervenes at this juncture to arrest the illegality and violations of the constitution and the law,” he said in the petition. The county assembly through an affidavit by Oraro has asked the court to dismiss the suit filed by Oloo. The assembly said his impeachment was lawful as the decision being made in the house business committee before it was communicated to him. Oraro stated that Oloo was given a chance to defend himself but failed to appear before the house. He said that Oloo also tried to use force to enter the office after his impeachment. (edited by O. Owino)