MPs want the National Cereals and Produce Board to make public the directors of companies which won the multimillion-shilling gunny bags tender. Public Accounts Committee chairman Opiyo Wandayi on Monday said the oversight team will get to the bottom of the matter that saw taxpayers spent Sh401 million in the procurement of the bags. “We shall go to the bottom of this matter even if it takes ages to solve this issue once and for all. This is a clear case of open rip off,” Wandayi, who is the Ugunja MP, said. The issue of gunny bags was raised by the Auditor General in his 2016/17 report. The auditor doubted that the bags were delivered as there was no documentary evidence to support delivery. MPs Eseli Simiyu (Tongaren), Ndindi Nyoro (Kiharu) and Peter Masara (Suna West) demanded that the names of individuals who benefitted from the tenders be made public. Of interest to the oversight team is the Greenland Suppliers which was awarded a Sh386,100,000 contract to supply 2,700,000 bags on November 18, 2016. Also in the MPs’ radar is Texplast Industries which won three contracts worth Sh13,076,400 in 2017. Other firms listed as beneficiaries of the contentious contracts are Raiply Woods Kenya (Sh1,722,600) and Transglobal Distributors Limited (Sh561,400). The lawmakers directed that Agriculture PS Hamadi Boga, who was before the committee, submits all the names of directors of firms which won the tenders. PAC members further queried the mode of procurement of the bags and the variance in the prices of the bags. According to the ministry’s response, some bags were procured at Sh143 per piece and others at between Sh28 and Sh38. “Three months earlier you go for restricted tendering and then two months later you go for open tendering, how do you explain that?” asked Nyoro. “The six companies supplied similar types of gunny bags at different prices. What was the rationale of determining the price per unit?” Masara sought to know. NCPB managing director Joseph Kimose said that the bags were sourced from India and were delivered to the board. The board did not make the delivery notes available to the audit team or any other related supporting documents for audit verification.      