Lugari MP Ayub Savula has urged President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto to endorse ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi for president. He said on Sunday that Mudavadi will stabilise the economy and unite the country, ending theTangatanga and Kieleweke camps that are dividing Kenyans in before the 2022 polls. “Mudavadi is the only sober politician who will ensure the cohesiveness of the country. You can see DP William Ruto's candidacy is already splitting the county and that is what we want to move away from,” he said. Savula spoke during the unveiling of a bus for the Kenya Medical Training College, Lugari campus, on Friday. Mudavadi has recently called on Ruto to retire with President Uhuru in 2022. Savula said that ODM leader Raila Odinga and Uhuru should remain kingmakers and ensure the country is united as they exit the political stage. A war of word has erupted between Mudavadi and Raila's backer over the Kibra by-election, with the ODM brigade accusing ANC of betrayal by fielding a candidate in Kibra, their political bastion. ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna has declared that Mudavadi should forget being named the compromise presidential candidate for 2022 after opposing ODM in Kibra. But Savula said termed Sifuna’s remarks inconsequential, saying he lacks credibility 'to even advise an MCA'. He asked Mudavadi to support the handshake between Uhuru and Raila as it has restored political sanity. While addressing Kenyans in New Jersey in US on Wednesday, Mudavadi said that Western countries threatened to cancel visas for opposition leaders and their associates unless they entered into a political deal. “The secret is that visas were to be cancelled. If they were to do so they would not only cancel visas for opposition leaders alone but also their wives, children and their relatives,” Mudavadi said. Mudavadi’s statement then triggered an altercation between ANC secretary general Barrack Muluka and Sifuna, with Muluka calling Mudavadi a coward. Savula said that Mudavadi needs both Raila and Uhuru in 2022. (Edited by V. Graham )