The Thika Lands Registry's shortage of staff is to blame for service delays that have led to public outrage, a lawmaker has said. Residents had made a noise that they have a hard time accessing vital services, including land searches. On Friday, MP Patrick Wainaina visited the offices following numerous complaints. He was accompanied by outgoing registrar Benard Leitich and his successor Anthony Mwandime. “The pressing issues are delays in the issuance of land searches. Locals are claiming the searches are taking more than a month, instead of two days. I’ve established this to be true and it’s all because there’s a shortage of workers at the registry,” Wainaina said. A resident told the Star on condition of anonymity that corruption is rife in the offices and is perpetrated by brokers who roam around. “If you part with money not less than Sh1,500, you will get your search within hours or a day, but if you decline to give a bribe, you will wait for the search for more than a month," he said. Leitich, however, dismissed the claim saying proper measures have been put in place to ward off brokers. The registry currently has 20 workers, instead of 35, hence the backlog. Wainaina said thousands of residents are suffering because of slow service delivery. The registry serves residents of Thika, Juja, Gatundu and some parts of Murang’a and Machakos counties. “I will raise this matter with the Lands ministry so we can get the requisite help. Land issues are so emotive in this region and further delays will create a crisis," the legislator said. He also noted that the registry’s valuation and survey departments have no vehicles to conduct field visits, thus having difficulties performing their roles. "I will be allowing them to use the CDF vehicle once per week as we push the ministry to deploy vehicles to this registry to streamline and improve services." Registrar Leitich said service delivery at the offices has also been hurt by the recent reshuffle of officers. He said most employees were transferred. "The new ones just settled and are still coping with activities here and that’s why there’s a slow pace in service delivery, but we are putting our house in order so that normalcy can be restored. I plead with members of the public to be patient with us,” he said. (Edited by F'Orieny)