 Leaders have called for stringent punishment of culprits who killed a couple at their home at Kathakame village in Kithimu, Embu West. Businessman Joseph Gitonga and his wife Caroline Murimi were murdered on October 10 as their children listened to the ordeal. The attackers first ambushed Murimi and her children at their home at about 11 pm. The man had not yet arrived home from the local trading centre where he operates a video show. Area chief Albert Njeru said the attackers locked the two children in a room from where they listened in horror as their mother was clobbered to death. They then took strategic positions at the homestead as they waited for Gitonga to arrived. Minutes later, his car halted in front of the house. Njiru said the attackers pounced n Gitonga, hit him with blunt objects and left him unconscious. They stole a TV set, a DVD player and a cooking gas cylinder. The two were rushed to Embu Level 5 Hospital where Murimi was pronounced dead upon arrival. Gitonga died hours later. Police say they have arrested six suspects in connection with the attack. At their burial on Thursday, leaders led by Deputy Governor David Kariuki demanded cruel punishment for the murderers. Kariuki was with scores of MCAs including Kathimu ward representative Michael Njeru. They said sme of the suspects had been positively identified by the couple's daughters aged 10 and six. Kariuki and Njeru asked the police to hasten investigations into the murder and ensure justice is done. It is rumoured the couple was killed as a result of business rivalry. Kariuki condemned the killing and asked residents to resolve their disputes in courts or through other dispute resolution mechanisms that do not hurt either party. He said the county government was ready to work closely with security officers to ensure justice prevailed so that those behind the murders are punished accordingly. Njeru said residents were shocked by the murder and that they would only be satisfied if those who have so far been arrested are given sentences that match their callous action. edited by peter obuya