Deputy President William Ruto has dismissed claims that the Kibra by-election is a supremacy battle between him and opposition leader Raila Odinga. He said the mini-poll was an opportunity for Kibra residents to elect a leader who will serve them for the next three years. "Let no one confuse you that this by-election is a contest between Raila, Ruto and Musalia (Mudavadi). The race is between MacDonald Mariga, Eliud Owalo, Imran Okoth and other candidates," he said. He spoke on Tuesday at Mash Park Hotel, in Kibra during a meeting with members of the Divine Church of Africa from Kibra. The DP called for peaceful campaigns in the by-election urging politicians to shun inciting residents, and allow them to exercise their democratic right freely. “We want this contest to be peaceful, and devoid of name-calling so that the people of Kibra can decide without interference on the best candidate,” He said. He said Mariga had the full backing of Jubilee party leadership led by President Uhuru Kenyatta citing that he had shown his desire to empower the people of Kibra. “We support Mr Mariga because he was raised in the same conditions as the people of Kibra; he does not need to be told about the needs of Kibra." Ruto said  Mariga's victory would give the Government ample opportunity to implement development projects in the area without party politics. “The projects we have done in Kibra faced a lot of opposition; we could not work freely with former MP the late Ken Okoth because his party would question his loyalty,” Ruto noted. His sentiments were echoed by Mumias East MP Benjamin Washiali who said Mariga will make it easy for the Government to address the needs of Kibra residents. “If you vote for Mr Mariga, we will have a bridge that will enable us to come to Kibra as Government to transform your lives," Washiali said. Dagoretti South MP John Kiarie said Jubilee Party leaders were ready to team up with Mr Mariga to transform Kibra constituency. “The Government has been looking, with no success, for someone in Kibra to work with. Vote for my fellow youth so that we can work together to empower youth in Kibra,” he said. Meanwhile, Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa dismissed reports by a section of the media that she would back ODM's candidate in the Kibra by-election. “I was ambushed. But this is where my heart is. I have always been clear about where I stand," Jumwa said. Jumwa said ODM was panicking after sensing defeat in the upcoming by-election. The Deputy President was accompanied by MPs Aisha Jumwa (Malindi), Benjamin Washiali (Mumias East), Emmanuel Wangwe (Navakholo), Nixon Korir (Lang’ata), John Kiarie (Dagoretti South) and Millicent Omanga (Nominated). The meeting saw Makina MCA Solomon Magembe and his followers decamp from ANC candidate Eliud Owalo to back Macdonald Mariga.