Jentrix Shikangwa has promised to steer Harambee Starlets past Ghana and keep Kenya’s hopes of qualifying for a first-ever Olympic Games in Tokyo next year. The 17-year-old Wiyeta Girls’ left-footer has been a revelation ever since she was drafted into the national set-up following her stellar performance in the school games. “We want to reach far in this qualifiers. To do that, we have to beat Ghana and I believe the preparations we have had so far have prepared us for the win. We are going for nothing short of victory,” said Jentrix. The teenager, who developed her interest in football while at Shipalo Primary School in Kakamega, en-route to becoming a national secondary school games' top scorer, has formed a formidable partnership in the attack alongside Mwanahalima Adam and Cynthia Shilwatso of Vihiga Queens. “We have a good understanding which is important at this level. I know I am still young and learning the technical aspects of the game. But I have the right people who encourage me and support me and this is why I believe our team-work will see us through God willing on Friday,” she remarked. Jentrix harbours ambition of one day turning professional and following the career path of her idol, Brazilian women football superstar Marta. “I received support from everyone ever since I joined Shinyalu Youth Sports Academy. My parents and teachers are all supportive of my endeavours and I hope one day to make them happy through football,” she concluded. Starlets jetted out to Ghana yesterday morning ahead of the first leg of their Olympics Qualifier set to be played on Friday. The team, which has been in camp for slightly over a week now, were expected in Ghana yesterday at 1.30 pm. “We will try to contain them as much as possible, try to keep a clean sheet and hopefully, get an away goal. With the preparations we have had, I am confident we will get a positive result. The players are motivated and very ready for the challenge,” said Starlets’ coach David Ouma. The aggregate winner of the tie proceeds to the tournament’s fourth qualifying round, where they could meet either of Zambia or Botswana. The fourth round winner will proceed to the fifth and final qualifying round, whose winner gets a place in the 2020 Summer Olympics, while the loser gets a lifeline in a playoff against the South American Football Confederation’s (CONMEBOL) second-placed team.