Kenya risk performing poorly in the men's handball 2020 Olympic Games qualifiers-cum-Africa Cup of Nations if the current preparation pace is anything to go by. With 10 weeks to the event, Kenya Handball Federation are yet to put together the national team’s training program. The qualifiers are set for between January 15 and 25 next year in Tunisia. The tournament draws will be done on October 19 in Tunis, where 16 countries including Kenya have already entered. The top two teams (finalists) at the tournament will represent Africa at the Tokyo Olympics, while the third and fourth finishers will have another chance to hunt for a slot at the intercontinental showpiece later in the year. Kenya will be gunning for a chance to debut at the quadrennial sports carnival after two (2004 and 2016) unsuccessful attempts. National coach Peter Mwathi acknowledged that the country is running out of time and preparations kick-off is long overdue. He admitted that 10 weeks may not be enough given the calibre of teams and the international experience their pool of players have over the years. “Two and a half months is not too long as we may think. We are going to encounter equally tough teams so it would be ideal to start preps as soon as possible. Other countries are already training overseas and we are yet to draw our schedule,” noted the veteran tactician. He remains hopeful that KHF will hasten the logistics for the team and have the provisional squad of about 30 named later this week to commence training. “We have to field a strong side at the qualifiers and we’ll need ample time to sharpen their skills ahead of the continental games,” added Mwathi who registered his preference for the team to train at Moi International Sports Centre, Kasarani from the word go as opposed to the Nyayo outdoor facility. Whereas Mwathi is hopeful training could kick-off as early as Tuesday next week, KHF had not presented their budget for the teams to Sports Fund through the Ministry of Sports. Charles Omondi, KHF’s fixtures secretary said he will be meeting the Sports Fund officials today to present their budget for the qualifiers.