MPs have started investigations into circumstances under which 48 containers of edible oils that were declared unfit for consumption were released from a godown in Mombasa. Trade committee chaired by Kieni MP Kanini Kega is probing how Kenya Bureau of Standards sanctioned the release of the cargo without the input of members of the multi-agency team dealing with contrabands and counterfeits. Kebs, in a July 22 letter, quotes a directive from another July 18 letter purported to be from the Head of Public Service directing it to release the impounded cargo. The letter to Trade Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya sought concurrence from the ministry to allow the release of the oil for further fortification. But MPs in the committee queried the move, saying they had a brief that the agency normally makes its decisions as a team and not unilaterally by a member. Mwatate MP Andrew Mwadime, Cornelly Serem (Aldai), Jeremiah Lomorukai (Loima), Alois Lentoimaga (Samburu North), Dan Maanzo (Makueni), and Jones Mlolwa (Voi) were present. The lawmakers maintained that the letter quoting receipt of another from the head of civil service OB/CAB/9/383 July 18 signaled that Kebs was under pressure to release the oil. Serem asked: “Isn’t it true that your office (civil service) is putting pressure on Kebs to release the same oils?” In response, Wanyama denied assertions that his team was under pressure from any quarters further saying he has not received calls with respect to the anti-counterfeit operation. “I have not seen a copy of the letter. I don’t think there is any pressure from the office of the public service. If there was pressure, why would I have the documents detailing the status of the oils,” the officer said. Kega ruled that they will give further directions since the committee is yet to be served with the letter said to be from the head of public service. “Did Kebs decide to circumvent the other agencies on this particular issue of the edible oil? Are you aware that out of the containers listed here, 48 were released to their owners?” the MP asked. The MPs also sought from MAT chair if he was aware there was a directive issued to the effect of the release of all the containers. The cargo had been seized by the team comprising of the DCI, KRA, Kebs, Public Health, Nema, Anti-Counterfeit Agency, among other enforcement agencies on grounds the oil lacked vitamin A. In what may expose cracks in the government’s effort to rid the country of contrabands and counterfeits, it has emerged that the MAT is yet to reach a decision on the oils. Chairman Wanyama Musiambo said his committee has at no time discussed the release of the oil as 'they are yet to clear the matters to do with contraband sugar seized at the height of the campaign against fakes'. “In the committee I chair, we have not discussed the issue of edible oils. I just have one document which lists the container numbers, their size, importer and location of the containers.” “This is a document prepared by the commissioner for customs. We have not sat and discussed to release the containers. That is why you will see that their locations are in Mombasa,” the deputy head of civil service said. "Any agreement we reach as a multi-agency is signed by all members before the same is effective. Our modus operandi is to reach decisions collectively, and members must sign for it." Kebs said the containers arrived in the country in 2018 further revealing that the oil was manufactured by Malaysian-based Palmtop Vegeoils Products Ltd – a certified firm. A rejection letter was issued to the importer following the test that revealed that the oils were vitamin A deficient. However, the importer appealed the decision and the oil was retested. “Six entries comprising of 48 containers complied with the standards while 10 containers failed. The purpose of this letter is to request for your concurrence for Kebs to release the compliant edible oil shipment based on the results of analysis,” the Kebs letter reads. Wanyama said the agencies were put together to avoid individual decisions adding that there cannot be an exception on the question of the edible oil.