Three ODM politicians are expected to appear before the National Cohesion and Integration Commission on Monday. Junet Mohamed (Suna East), Babu Owino (Embakasi East) and former Embakasi South MPP Irshard Sumra are to record statements regarding allegations they made inciting remarks at a political rally in Kibra constituency. In an interview with the Star yesterday, NCIC chief executive officer Hassan Mohamed said investigators are piecing together evidence before the file is forwarded to Director of Public Prosecution for action. “Investigations are ongoing. We have looked at the video clips and investigators are also on the ground looking for more evidence,” Mohamed said. He however stated that the three politicians had disputed the clips “When they came here they said they wanted time to look at the video clips before they can record statements. We agreed they come back on October 28,” he said. Rarieda MP and lawyer Otiende Amolo representing Junet and Babu denied the allegations terming the investigations “prejudicial” . “The investigators shared with us their fashion of what they claim was said in Kibra. We have taken them and we shall check if they tally with our fashion,” Otiende told journalist after a closed door session with the investigators led by police chief inspector Jonson Kilua. Mohamed had warned that stern action will be taken against the politicians . "The commission is in receipt of a number of audio and video clips of politicians making what may amount to inflammatory statements," he said. He added: " The clips are currently being reviewed by the commission in conjunction with other agencies. Should the clips reveal violations of the law, the perpetrators will be held accountable. " Mohamed noted that campaigns in Kibra have been largely peaceful but accused some campaigners of using abusive language and inciting the electorate. Mohamed also sounded a warning to social media users, saying those found to be in breach of NCIC Act will not be spared. "The commission is also monitoring social media platforms to ensure that these platforms are not used to incite violence or propagate hate speech or ethnic contempt. We continue to urge members of the public to maintain peace not just in the areas conducting the by-elections but in the country at large," he said.