Lakers coach Austin Tuju rued irregular training schedule for their 2-1 loss to Sliders yesterday at City Park in a Kenya Hockey Union (KHU) women's Premier League match. Tuju also observed that insufficient training ahead of the match played a major role for their double loss over the weekend. The Kisumu-based outfit lost in a similar fashion last Saturday to United States International University USIU-A Spartans to end their unbeaten run. Goals from Veronica Maua and Harriet Omindi reduced Maureen Owiti's rare strike to a mere consolation. He said: "Yesterday's game was good. The girls showed character but luck was not on our side. Our main undoing were the basics. If we can pass the ball well, dribble, create space and make play simple, we can easily win matches." He added: "I have a young inexperienced crop of players at my disposal. We do not train together. I only train with four players at Kisumu. Four others are in Kakamega, three in Bondo and three in Nairobi. We train twice a month and this will force us to recruit massively and establish a regular training programme." His Sliders counterpart Linet Onyango alluded that teamwork and sharpness in front of the goal paid dividends handsomely. "Team effort and taking our chances accounted for out three points. Players played according to instructions and we are optimistic of a strong end to the season." Lakers attacked with the intent from the first whistle and were unlucky not to have taken the lead barely 14 minutes into the game as Aurelia Opondo's shot fled inches over the bar. Captain Lina Barasa wasted a clear cut chance with the goalkeeper only to beat in the 18th minute. Their wastefulness, however, proved costly nine minutes later as Sliders captain and Kenyan international Charity Miller slotted home the opener in the 27th minute. Twenty minutes later, Doreen Otieno doubled the scores but their bid to have a clean sheet was thwarted by Opondo's stoppage-time goal. Meanwhile, the men Premier League match pitting fourth-placed Police and USIU-A Mashujaa was called off on Saturday, thanks to bad weather. 