Expensive feed and lack of quality fingerlings have been identified as major obstacles hindering fish farming. Unga Group Limited MD Nick Hutchison has said many farmers are unable to afford quality feed to boost their fish farming enterprises. He underscored the value of fish farming saying it can boost food security but regretted that without affordable feed, farmers opt to abandon the economic activity and venture in other activities with low returns. Hutchison cited the numerous taxes imposed on food production as part of the problem resulting in the expensive feed. This has edged Kenya in competing with neighbouring countries whose animal and fish feed is cheaper. The MD was speaking at Sagana Fisheries on Friday when his company launched a new feed product for catfish. He urged the government to remove nontariff barriers from the food production chain to help farmers increase yields and get better returns. Hutchison said companies majoring in production of animal, fish and poultry feed have had to source for raw materials from other countries as the locally available materials are very expensive. "Some of the crop proteins are being sourced out of the country and this is contributing to high prices of feed, especially that for fish." He said the country can allow the production of GMO foods to lower food costs saying Kenya has several technical agencies that can control production of genetically modified crops. The country, especially the Central region, has a big potential to produce a high quantity of fish which can go a long way in filling the gap of fish shortage, Hutchison said. "With enough support to farmers, especially from the Central region, the country will produce enough fish and there will be no need to import fish from other countries." Most of the fish consumed in Central Kenya is sourced from Lake Victoria and Tanzania, something which has led to high prices. Unga Group Limited, in partnership with Kenya Marine and Fisheries Research Institute (KMFRI), has come up with new feed to boost production of catfish. Head of KMFRI Centre in Sagana Domitilla Kyule said the new feed will boost the growth of catfish, which does well in the Central region. She noted that they have done crossbreeding of catfish from the country with others from Holland and Indonesia to come up with a better breed that matures within a short period. "We now have generation 3 of catfish variety, which we recommend to farmers as the variety matures fast into a big size,” Dr Kyule said. She said they will continue engaging farmers and providing them with technical knowhow to boost fishing. "We can't rely on fish from lakes and oceans as this is coming to extinct. The way to go is to support aquaculture and enable farmers to produce fish in their farms." With catfish, farmers can reap a lot as the fish can be used to make sausages, samosa, burgers or any other product, she added. Dr Kyule said fish farming is the only sustainable option remaining as stock can be replenished to ensure adequate production. Nationwide consumption of fish is still low compared to other countries, Kyule said, blaming it on high prices. (Edited by F'Orieny)