It is important for you to get a comprehensive eye check-up at least once a year if you suffer from diabetes. Experts say even though having higher than normal blood sugar levels might not be a direct cause of blindness, it increases the risk of developing serious eye conditions such as diabetic retinopathy. Over time, high blood sugar levels from diabetes lead to damage of the retina, the layer on the back of the eye that captures images and sends them as nerve signals to the brain. Diabetic retinopathy over time can lead to permanent loss of sight. Diabetic retinopathy may not have any symptoms at first but early detection will help take steps to protect one's vision. Diabetes also increases the chances of developing other eye conditions such as cataracts and glaucoma. Having diabetes makes you two to five times more likely to develop cataracts and nearly doubles your risk of developing a type of glaucoma called open-angle glaucoma. Dr Micheal Gichangi yesterday said the provision of effective and accessible eye care is key for effectively controlling visual impairment, including blindness. Dr Gichangi is an ophthalmologist and the head of the Ophthalmology services Unit at the Ministry of Health. “With the upsurge of diabetes, we are putting in place measures to ensure that all have eye examination just like the vital signs, to be taken routinely before the patient goes through the review,” Gichangi said. To strengthen eye care services the ministry has accelerated training of all eye health cadres and using technology in eye health. Statistics from the ministry show about 30 per cent of people living with diabetes already have diabetic retinopathy with about half of them at risk of losing their sight. Kenya has about 7.5 million people who are in need of interventions to prevent loss of vision, restore vision or need rehabilitation to improve performance. The medic acknowledged that out of the 7.5 million who need eye health services, only 21.3 per cent (1.6 million) are able to access eye healthcare in public and private facilities. Trachoma, a leading cause of preventable blindness, is still persistent in 26 community units in eight counties “More than 75 per cent of visual impairment result from preventable causes and many of the cases like cataract are treatable and possible to restore sight,” said. Dr Gichangi said although over 65 per cent of visually impaired people are over 50 years, interventions targeting child eye health associated with schooling and development cannot be underestimated, he argued. “The ministry has adopted the use of Portable Eye Examination Kit (PEEK), a mobile phone technology used to screen for visual impairment especially in schools and Fundus photography used for screening diabetic patients for the complication of Retinopathy.” Cataract, the leading cause of blindness, is on the increase due to an expanding older population due to increasing life expectancy. “When we talk of training we see the need to improve the skills of the primary health workers as part of primary healthcare,” he noted. The ministry is working with county governments to ensure the primary health facilities have some basic tools and skills required to evaluate vision first at the primary level facilities. “This is the only way we shall be able to identify and intervene early for persons with visual impairment in the journey of UHC,” he said. 