Tears ran down her cheeks when she saw the woman who allegedly used an electronic sex toy to defile her. Ann (not her real name), aged four, appeared before Kibera senior resident magistrate Boaz Ombewa to testify against a woman she had known as her aunt in Dagoretti, Nairobi. She looked around cautiously to make sure she was safe and the friendly magistrate convinced her to narrate what happened to the court. “She used to insert a vibrating machine in my private parts. She never removed her clothes but she removed mine,” she said on Thursday. The court heard that Ann frequently visited Yvonne Minamo at her house where she would play hide and seek with the accused's daughter. “Yes, I know her house. We played together. I remember she used to remove my shoes, panties and clothes and insert the doll here,” she pointed to her private parts. “I told my mother and father." Ann declined to respond to some questions and just watched the magistrate and the accused, who flooded her with questions. When asked about her favourite game and food, the minor said she loved ice cream and hide and seek. She told the court that the accused was not her friend and she only went to her house to play with her daughter. “She is not my friend. She touched me here when she called me in her room,” she told the court. Ann was testifying in a case in which Mimamo is accused of defiling her with a sex toy on different dates between September 1 last year and March 31 in Dagoretti. Mimamo is also facing other charges of touching her indecently. According to the prosecution, the accused lured the child into her house and defiled her, which led to the girl catching an infection. The prosecution said the child's mother realised her daughter was often touching her private parts and asked her why. The child told her Mimamo, who lived in the neighbourhood, had been inserting a toy in her private parts. The prosecution said the child was taken to Nairobi Women's Hospital, where a doctor confirmed she had been defiled. The doctor advised her mother to report the matter to a nearby police station after treatment. The mother testified that the accused would sneak into her house and disappear with the child. She reported the matter to Parklands police station leading to Mimamo's arrest. Ombewa released her on Sh400,000 bond pending hearing. Edited by R.Wamochie