MPs have moved to shield existing bank loans from the proposed legislation seeking to remove interest rate caps. Members of the Finance Committee chaired by Kipkelion East MP David Limo backed President Uhuru Kenyatta’s bid to remove the bank interest rate caps. The President proposed the removal of the rate caps in his reservations to the Finance Bill, 2019, as passed by Parliament early this month. MPs sought to retain the caps saying banks still made a profit for the period the cap was in force but the government says the situation has stifled SMEs growth. The Finance Committee thus wants the reservations adopted but with a further amendment that the new interest rate regime should not interfere with loans taken when the caps were in force. Limo, in a report tabled in Parliament yesterday, said a repeal of the caps would mean banks will be at liberty to vary loan interest rates borrowed prior to the repeal. “If this happens, there would be an increase in the repayable interest on loans, which could lead to an increase in non-performing loans,” the committee said. Limo said the further amendment protects the rights of existing borrowers adding that the voting threshold for the same would be a simple majority. The clause, which the committee wants Parliament to approve reads: “Notwithstanding the repeal of Section 33B of the Banking Act, any agreement or arrangement to borrow or lend which was made or entered into pursuant of the repealed section, shall continue to be in force on such terms including interest rates, and for the duration specified in the agreement or arrangement.” Uhuru, in his reservations, said the interest rate cap caused unintended effects that were significant and damaging to the country’s economy. He argued that most commercial banks adjusted their lending business models towards large corporates and the public sector at the expense of small-scale borrowers and individuals. The President further argued that the capping caused a slowdown in the monetary policy transmission to inflation and growth. “Studies indicate that lending activity by smaller banks reduced with an outstanding stock of credit declining by about five per cent in the 12 months ending September 2017,” the President said. Uhuru further warned that the caps regime occasioned the uncontrolled mushrooming of shylocks and other unregulated lenders.