Preparations for a global population conference to be held in Nairobi are in top gear. Foreign Affair PS Macharia Kamau on Tuesday told diplomats from Nordic countries the government would ensure the meeting succeeds. They are co-organisers of the International Conference on Population and Development. The conference, co-convened by Kenya, Denmark and the UN Population Fund, is set to run from November 12 to 14 at the Kenya International Convention Centre. The meeting will be attended by heads of state and governments, ministers, lawmakers, civil society groups, business leaders, researchers among others. Issues to be discussed include maternal health, contraceptives, gender-based violence, child marriage and female genital mutilation. Speaking at a status update gathering at Danish ambassador's residence in Nairobi, Macharia said the conference will provide a timely review of the milestones in addressing women's and reproductive health issues. The conference is a follow up on one held in Cairo in 1994 in which participating countries committed to sweeping reforms to afford women more opportunities. The Nairobi meeting aims to take stock of the ground covered, inspire action as well as mobilise political will and financial commitments needed to fully implement the ICPD programme of action. The Nordic ambassadors, saying that the subjects to be discussed are crucial for full realisation of human rights. They said they hoped participating governments will update on the milestones they have covered in widening access to healthcare and affirmative programmes that target women and vulnerable groups. Nominated MP Denitah Ghati told the Star women living with disability are at a higher risk of sexual and gender-based violence. Most of the interventions targeting women have largely sidelined them, she said. "The disabled women - either physically or mentally - are increasingly exposed to every form of violence and discrimination, including FGM. I'm really keen to see what interventions crystallise from the conference to address the inadequacies," she said.