Mandera Governor Ali Roba yesterday urged public servants to serve with integrity and impartiality. He said the region is cosmopolitan and all communities should be considered for job placements. Roba spoke in Mandera town during the swearing-in of the new County Public Service Board team. He said the utmost goal of the board is to improve the county for the better. Those who took the oath of office were Ethila Mohamud (chairperson), and members Mohamed Alio, Dakane Maalim, Jama Hassan, Nasra Mukhtar and Mohamed Hassan. Roba thanked members of the former board for their service and urged the new team to follow in their footsteps and ensure the county exploits its human capital to improve residents' lives. The gains made in the past five years must be protected, he said. "I want to urge the board to uphold a high level of honesty and integrity and be guided by proper ethics to achieve its goals. As you all know, the human resource remains our county’s single most important resource,” the county chief said. The team has its work cut out. They will have to tackle questions regarding skill gaps, schemes of services, organisational structures, roles and responsibilities and job descriptions. It will also readvertise the jobs that were cancelled by the executive in June after allegations of corruption and nepotism in the recruitment process. Mid last year, the county advertised vacancies. Of the more than 5,000 applicants, only about 700 were selected. Immediately after the shortlisting was done,  however, residents, especially unsuccessful applicants, complained and accused the board of corruption and favouritism. The dissatisfaction attracted the attention of the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission, which advised the county to suspend the process. Meanwhile, Roba said that with the help of security officers, they have reduced terror activities and unified people after ethnic clashes were witnessed during the advent of devolution. He said his administration has put the necessary structures in place to ensure all programmes are fulfilled to uplift the living standards of residents. "For the last five years, we've been working on putting up the necessary structures. What we are now doing is implementing the same, but we can only achieve these things when we are united," he said. (Edited by F'Orieny)