While at Serani Secondary School in the early 90s, Hassan Joho used to sneak out of school every Friday after the Dhuhr prayers. He'd go to the Old Port in Old Town where Somali merchant ships used to dock. A well-built Swahili man called Machkopa was the master porter and supervised all porters. Joho used to beg him for odd jobs. Sometimes he was lucky. On the good days, he would load scrap metal onto lorries, earning Sh90 for the whole afternoon's work. “Today, Alhamdullilahi, I am the Governor of Mombasa. History books will say I am the first Governor of Mombasa,” Joho said at the same Old Port where he laid the hard-work foundation for his success. He spoke on Wednesday afternoon when he commissioned 28 high-density fibreglass boats for Beach Management Units in Mombasa. In a rare insight, Joho opened up on his struggles, pain, setbacks and determination paved his way to the Governor's Mansion. His is a story of determination, perseverance, ambition and shrewdness despite frustrations even from the people he thought would have his back. “When I vied for MP in Kisauni, people laughed at me. Even my own family said I was a joker. Only a few friends believed in me,” Joho said. The governor said his determination and ambition pushed him to governorship and will propel him to the presidency. “It is because my intentions have always been pure. I have no ill-will towards anybody. That is why I succeed,” Joho said. Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir people speak ill of Joho without understanding who he is and where he comes from. He said they talk about the expensive clothes and shoes he wears today but don't mention or know that he went to Tom Mboya primary school with torn clothes and shoes. “When he was going around Mombasa selling vitumbua (a type of Swahili pastry) nobody talked. Now he is travelling all over the world, people are unhappy. What do you want?” Nassir asked. The MP said while campaigning for the Kisauni MP seat in 2007 after losing the Kisauni by-election in 2004, Nassir said they predicted that Joho would rise far beyond MP. “Today, is he not the Mombasa Governor? Take note, God willing, in 2022, our policies will sell us. We will be in the presidency,” Nassir said. Joho has declared interest in the presidency and believes he is in a good position to clinch it, now that he is learning the ropes ‘from inside’ due to his newfound camaraderie with President Uhuru. Or he could be angling for a running-mate slot. “When you have three poisonous mouths against us, we have 40 medicinal mouths for us,”  Nassir said. He said leaders are anointed by God and there is a reason why Joho is the Mombasa Governor and he himself the Mvita MP. Nassir has set his sights on the governorship after Joho finishes his second term in 2022. He told off those saying Joho has abandoned the fight against exploitative national government policies like the SGR-only haulage directive. “Where were you when we were on the streets having teargas thrown at us because of the port services being taken to Naivasha and Nairobi?” the MP asked. He said the unity that Mombasa leaders show irks some people. "Constant squabbles do not allow room for development," Nassir said. Joho said there are many people more qualified to be MPs and governors in Mombasa than Nassir and himself. “But what God wants you cannot change. It has a purpose,” he said. He said the God chose them to be leaders in Mombasa because He knew there would be challenging moments requiring their resilience. to solve problems. The governor has gone through many tribulations, from being accused of drug trafficking to being humiliated by the government during his political war with Uhuru. He has always emerged victorious, though sometimes bruised. “No leader can put the interests of their people aside. Let nobody fool you,” Joho said “Abdulswamad, don’t bother with those. Haters are the same wherever you go and in whatever you do. It is their habit. Their hearts are impure. They will never change,”  Joho said. He said, “I have seen a lot. ‘Oooooh! The governor has worn an expensive shoe." Wear yours too. If you don’t have them, persevere. We also did not have them at some point. ” Now he is having the last laugh, having set the record for having the most votes in the history of the Kisuani constituency, even when it was still the larger Kisuani. Part of Mvita constituency was carved out if Kisauni. “It is because my intentions are good. If I bothered about what people say, I would not be here today,” the Governor said. “They are lucky the Constitution only allows two terms. If there was another term I would still frustrate them,” he said. (Edited by V. Graham) 