Gor Mahia Chief Executive Officer Lordvick Aduda has revealed that his entry in the race to clinch the Football Kenya Federation (FKF) Presidency has been inspired by an endorsement from stakeholders. Aduda has been coy over his bid to oust the incumbent Nick Mwendwa in the polls set for December 7 but yesterday he said his decision had been informed by the pressure from football stakeholders. The FKF elections are slowly gathering pace with the list of candidates interested in the top seat now standing at four. Apart from Aduda, others are former Vihiga County governor, Moses Akaranga and former FKF boss Sam Nyamweya. Aduda's last stint with the governing body ended on a sour note. The former FKF CEO, who was ejected out of office in 2012, has been a fierce critic of the current regime which assumed office in February 2016. Aduda has been on record questioning the selection of players to the national team, the calibre of foreign coaches mandated to manage Harambee Stars and how the accounts department has been spending both the Fifa grants and funding from the government. Yesterday, Aduda formally declared his interest in the top seat and further said that his manifesto will be disclosed to the public soon. “Football stakeholders feel that time is up for me to take up the leadership mantle. I have accepted their challenge and endorsement and I will give it a shot. I will be releasing my manifesto soon.” Meanwhile, aspirants from Mombasa, Kilifi, Kwale and Taita Taveta counties yesterday submitted their nomination forms to the FKF Electoral Board ahead of the upcoming polls. This as the six-day nomination period kicked off yesterday at FKF House, Goal Project. Among candidates who submitted their documents are South Coast branch secretary Lilian Kazungu, who will be contesting the chairperson’s position alongside Goshi Alliy and Alamin Abdallah, who also came before the board’s secretariat. “I will be contesting the FKF Mombasa County Branch chairperson seat. I believe I have what it takes,” said Lilian Kazungu.“The nomination process has been flawless. I have confidence in the board that they will conduct a free and fair election,” she added. Salim Bambaulo from Kwale, Kilifi’s Dickson Angore and Taita Taveta’s Duncan Maghanga also came before the board’s secretariat yesterday. The board, chaired by  Edwin Wamukoya, will today receive aspirants from Mandera, Marsabit, Isiolo, Meru, Tharaka Nithi, Embu, Kitui, and Machakos. On Wednesday, aspirants from Makueni, Nyandarua, Nyeri, Kirinyaga, Murang’a Kiambu, Turkana and West Pokot will have their day. The deadline for submission of relevant documents has been set for Saturday with a preliminary list of eligible candidates set to be released on October 22. County elections are  scheduled for November 23.