Despite the threat by the Sports Registrar to cancel the forthcoming Football Kenya Federation (FKF) polls in the event of anomalies, Nick Mwendwa is certain of retaining his seat. Last week, the registrar wrote to the federation urging them to conform to the set rules among them incorporating all relevant branches which were locked out of the exercise. The national elections set for December 7 have attracted a court case as Nyamira Sub-branch chairman Jared Nyauma, on behalf of all the branches, has sued FKF at the Sports Disputes Tribunal Court for violation of the electoral code. The case is set to be heard on November 5. Mwendwa, who is campaigning through the 'Team Blue' wing, banks on the lack of a competitor and endorsement from 30 counties to earn another four-year term in office. His challengers did not submit their papers to the electoral committee last week. The Kariobangi Sharks' club president said he is not afraid of the court cases and the scare from the registrar as his development record is there for all to see. “Even if the elections are repeated more than ten times, I am certain I will retain the seat. No one has come out to challenge me and more than 30 counties are behind my back while a large chunk of the national executive committee members are also unopposed. Team Blue is on course for another four-year term courtesy of the tremendous efforts we have put in development.” He added, “The registrar, Ministry, Fifa and courts are dealing with the General Secretary and I am not in a position to respond to them even though I have seen their letters. I have reserved energy to source for funds for our national teams. I have even opted to desert the office at Kandanda House until the exercise is over.” Meanwhile, Mwendwa said FKF have joined the duo of Athletics Kenya and Kenya Rugby Union and other federations to petition for an explanation from the Ministry of Sports regarding their stand on funding national teams. “We have been frustrated enough and we join them in seeking answers to the questions we have. Federations seem to have a challenge with the ministry and we hope they will respond so that we can know where the problem is.”