Parliament has asked county governments to clear their debts with Kenya Medical Supplies Authority. Some counties started sourcing drugs from private companies which compromised their standards after they accumulated huge debts with Kemsa, parliamentary Health Committee chairperson Sabina Chege said. She said the Health Laws Amendment Act signed into law by the President in May made it mandatory for county governments to source their drugs from Kemsa. “Some drugs procured were bad and no standards were put in place during their procurement, putting patients’ lives at risk,” Chege said. Speaking to The Star in Murang’a town on Wednesday, Chege said each level of health facilities has a set of drugs it should have, from the health centres to referral hospitals. This order was however broken and any drugs could be found in any facility. “This is why we amended the law to have a central source of drugs in the country and I am asking governors who have not paid Kemsa to do so to continue getting their drugs,” Chege said. The Murang’a Woman Representative said the four counties benefitting from the pilot programme of Universal Health Coverage are getting their drugs for free and all they have to do is place an order. She said a report on Kisumu, Isiolo, Nyeri and Machakos counties is expected by December to inform rolling out of the programme to the rest of the counties. Chege said the UHC will ensure patients find the right drugs when they visit a health facility. She said the government is discussing use of generic drugs to help reduce cost. “Drugs in Kenya are very expensive. We are looking into ways that the prices can be reduced for the benefit of patients,” she said. Chege said there are plans to standardise drugs prices in local pharmacies as the variation is too huge. “Some private hospitals sell drugs to their admitted patients at exorbitant prices when the same drugs can be accessed in pharmacies at cheaper prices,” she said. Chege said there is a need to cushion patients from exploitation by private health practitioners and that is why it is vital for Kemsa to be the central source of all medications used in public hospitals. The MP said the government is also putting measures in place to have exchange programmes for local health workers with countries that have more advanced health systems.