 Water shortage in Nairobi will reduce substantially after the completion of a pipeline from Kabete Water Treatment Works to South C in 10 months from February next year. The multi-million-shilling project will supply  Kenyatta/Woodley, Kibera, Lang’ata, South C and Nairobi West. A huge storage tank at South C will supply most of the estates. Nairobi Water Company managing director Nahason Muguna said on Monday that the storage tank and the pipeline will be ready in December next year. The pipeline will run along James Gichuru Road and Southern By-pass. The adequate water supply promise is good news especially for Lang’ata residents who have suffered rationing for many years. A number of boreholes will supplement the water supply in those areas. The boreholes projects was started this year. Muguna said the company is focused on reducing the daily 250,000 cubic metres deficit in the next three years. “As we speak, the demand for water in Nairobi stands at 700,000 cubic metres daily but the county only supplies 450,000 cubic metres," he said. A 14,000,000-litre water tank is under construction in Embakasi Garrison Barracks to supply the military base and the surrounding estates. It will be fed by the Kiambu-Embakasi water pipeline. The projects are funded by the World Bank and the African Development Bank. Governor Mike Sonko said recently that land grabbing along Olive Hospital Road had temporally stalled the project. “I won't spare those grabbing public utilities including land. This project would not have taken off had we allowed the grabbers to have their way," Sonko said. County assembly water committee chairman and Mihang’o MCA Paul Kados urged the executive to follow through the projects. “This a mega project. The executive should ensure it is taken with the seriousness it deserves. Matters water should not be politicised because at the end of the day it's we, Nairobians, who will suffer. We must support our governor in achieving his goals," he said. Meanwhile, City Hall has in the past year identified 1,143 illegal water connections in a crackdown targeting water cartels.  A total of  179 arrests have been made. In July, Sonko assured city residents of his commitment to finding lasting solutions to the water crisis in most estates. The governor said Sh2.7 billion had been set aside for environment, water and energy sector this financial year. “I am aware that water is one of the biggest challenges experienced by city residents, but with the plans we have in place, they will soon be resolved.” The completion of the Northern water collection tunnel is also expected to improve the capacity of water for residents. Sonko said that water rationing in parts of the city will continue. “The water rationing programme is still on but we will ensure no homestead is left without water,” he added.  