Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko has threatened to fire members of his staff over Precious Talent Academy compensation money. A mourner claimed that the Sh100,000 each sent out by the county to the bereaved parents at Precious Talent Academy was never received. Through a post on his Facebook page on Wednesday evening, Sonko threatened to take action on the culprits, if the money meant for the families was not delivered to them. "I swear by the name of the almighty God if this speaker in the attached video is talking the truth and not politics played by the area MP then I can see more staff going home," Sonko said. In the video, the mourner disclosed that the bereaved families did not receive any money. "Nairobi county government promised to give us money when we were at the memorial. ODM leader Raila Odinga also stated that he would give his donation and President Uhuru Kenyatta's one too. Sadly, we have not received the donations," the mourner said. "This family has not been supported at all. People were alleging that the government stood for this funeral when we had our own Harambee. We ourselves contributed to raising money to hire the buses." But Sonko said his Education CEC, chief officer finance and chief officer Disaster Management confirmed that each family that lost a kid received the money for funeral expenses. "Besides that the county provided eight coffins and transport to each family. Watasema hiyo pesa walitransfer kwanani [They will say where they transferred the money to], " he said. "I don't play with emotions especially with families that are mourning. I mean what I say and I will do a thorough follow up kesho." Eight pupils lost their lives when a classroom collapsed at Precious Talent Academy in Dagoreti last month. The school is reported to have a population of about 800 pupils. According to the locals, the entire Ngando Ward does not have a primary public school, apart from Lenana High School which is said to be sitting on more than 200 hectares of land.