The recent takeover of the cash-strapped Mumias Sugar Company by Kenya Commercial Bank Group has left cane farmers anxious. The bank's receiver-manager Ponangipalli Rao took over the affairs of the company on September 24. Among his first duties, he declared the sugar miller's staff redundant. A spot check by the Star on Tuesday found no activity at the company.  Even the production of ethanol has now stopped. “The factory is dead. This spells doom for our people who have nothing else to turn to,” Simon Wesechere, a cane farmer, said. Wesechere blamed the miller's woes on the failure by the Western Kenya leadership to unite and push for its revival. The company has been supporting over 600, 000 households. It initially employed 9,000 but the number dropped to 4,000. Only 900 people were still in the company's payroll before Rao's appointment. “We had hope until Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya took over with promises to revive the company. The management had engaged KCB and they agreed to reschedule repayment of the debts,” he said. Wesechere is also the deputy secretary of the Kenya National Federation of Sugarcane Farmers (KNFSF). Former Medical Services Minister Amukowa Anangwe said the economic void created by Mumias Sugar's collapse has no easy replacement. He said that with the collapse of the company, cane farmers will be forced to return to subsistence farming they practised in the early 1970s. "Land sizes have shrunk, the population increased and unemployment and the resultant crime rates will soar sooner or later," Anangwe said. He proposed that the government sells its shares in the miller to private investors who can run and sustain it. Anangwe said proposals to offload the state shareholding to the Kakamega county government is not an option. “After all the county government depends on revenue from the national government and counties are struggling financially,” he said. The national government has pumped Sh3.7 billion to revive the company without success. A team appointed by Oparanya to draw a revival plan for the company recommended an urgent capital injection of Sh5 billion for it to return to productivity. The team cited poor governance, heavy borrowing and investments in projects that never gave returns as some of the causes of trouble at miller. A high cost of production and poor farming models were also cited. The report revealed that malpractices by staff cost the company millions in losses. Double procurement, single sourcing, overstating of books of account, inflated commercial activities and poor record-keeping were some of the malpractices. (edited by O. Owino)