Kibra candidates have intensified their campaigns to try and convince residents to vote for them during a by-election on November 7. The election was occasioned after the death of Ken Okoth.  Okoth died of cancer. Among the candidates seeking to replace him are; Jubilee's  McDonald Mariga, ODM's Bernard Imran Okoth, ANC's Eliud Owalo among others. On Sunday morning ,Mariga  embarked on a clean up exercise in Kibra. He was adorned in a green  T- shirt and blue jeans. Accompanied by a few youths, Mariga walked the slum as he greeted its residents and sold his agenda. "As we approach the November 7,Kindly consider voting for me,"he posted on Facebook. He later at 1 pm  held a rally at the Laini Saba grounds. "Our Party Candidate McDonald Mariga will this afternoon speak to the people of Kibra in a rally at the Laini Saba Grounds,"Jubilee party tweeted. The Deputy president William Ruto hosted Jubilee candidate McDonald Mariga, grassroots leaders from Kibra constituency and some politicians at his Karen home on Friday. Those in attendance included Dagorreti South MP John Kiarie and Starehe MP Charles Kanyi who drummed up support for their candidate. Mariga said,"President Uhuru served me with water before handing me the Jubilee branded cap to seek the Kibra seat." President Uhuru Kenyatta and his Deputy William Ruto on September 19 assured him of unwavering support. Uhuru and Ruto met the former Harambee Stars player at State House on Wednesday and vowed to fully rally behind him in the race. Owalo was also not left out as he campaigned in the area. Owalo was former ODM leader Raila Odinga's aide. He moved from the lobby group to head Raila's 2013  Presidential Campaign serving as Head of the CORD Presidential Campaign Secretariat and Chief Campaign Manager to former Prime Minister. Owalo fell out with Raila during the ODM primaries for Kibra at the 2017 elections and is now the candidate of another former Raila ally Musalia Mudavadi's ANC party. On Saturday morning, he took a stroll in Kibra visiting residents at their homes and places of work. "In Kibra this morning, I took a stroll and visited residents in the homes and places of work. The resilience of the people never ceases to amaze me,"he tweeted. Owalo sold his agenda  pledging  to increase bursary from the current sh 5000 to sh 10,000. "Pledge: Hon. Eliud Owalo has pledged to increase bursary to Ksh10,000 per student from the current Ksh5,000,"he tweeted on Saturday. On his part, Imran who is Ken Okoth's brother on Sunday attended  Church service at PCEA Emmanuel Karanja Road,Kibra. "Today’s service at PCEA Emmanuel Karanja Road. We all come together to better the lives of the people we serve,"he tweeted. Jubilee nominated MP Maina Kamanda on Sunday led ODM candidate Imran Okoth's campaigns in Kibra constituency. Kamanda hosted a delegation of members from the Agikuyu community in Kibra during a meeting with Imran. "Jubilee Nominated MP Maina Kamanda led Imran’s campaign this afternoon by hosting a delegation of members from the Gikuyu community in Kibra for meeting our candidate," ODM tweeted. Kamanda on September 23 declared his support for Imran for the November 7 Kibra by-election. Kamanda spoke after meeting ODM leader Raila Odinga at the AU envoy's office in Capitol Hill. Jubilee Nominated MP Maina Kamanda led Imran’s campaign on September 30 by hosting a delegation of members from the Gikuyu community in Kibra for meeting our candidate.