The defence in the Willie Kimani murder case has produced an Administration Police matching order showing that Leonard Mwangi was not on duty on the day of the murder. Through his lawyer John Muchere, he showed lead investigator Robert Owino the orders while cross-examining him. Muchere asked Owino what the document, which was recovered by police in Mwangi's house, means. Owino said from the face of it, it was permission to be away from duty. Owino read the order in court. It had Mwangi's name and the date of departure as June 22, 2016, to go to Ruiru for purposes of visiting family. The date of return was June 26. Owino said he had not seen it adding that other officers were in charge of the operation to search the suspect's house. The investigator insisted that according to the sources he interviewed, Mwangi was on duty on June 23 and was doing patrols with Fredrick Leliman on the day of the murder. Muchere said one of the witnesses told the court that he did not remember seeing Mwangi anywhere and on calling him, he said he was at home. But Owino said some of his crew members told him Mwangi was on duty. He pointed to court the statement of PC Wilson Kamau which says that on June 22, he was working at Mlolongo when Mwangi called him. Kamau said he did not go to work on June 23 when the murder took place. “And that's the person you relied on to tell you the whereabouts of the accused on that day?” Muchere asked. Muchere also produced an inventory showing all the items recovered in Mwangi’s house. It is an exhibit. Owino told the court it was the first time he was seeing the document. The police recovered a Tecno phone and two sim cards, the Safaricom card was taken for analysis and data retrieval. Four police officers; Leliman, Stephen Cheburet, Sylvia Wanjiku and Leonard Mwangi are charged alongside Peter Ngugi with the murder of IJM lawyer Willie Kimani, client Josephat Mwenda and taxi driver Joseph Muiruri. Kimani, Mwenda and Muiruri were abducted on June 23, 2016, after attending a case hearing in Mavoko law courts in Athi River that implicated Leliman. After a long and tedious search, their bodies were found and retrieved a week later in a river at Ol Donyo Sabuk in Machakos county. The trial resumes on November 4. Edited by R.Wamochie