A female Kakamega MCA said on Thursday that she beat a male colleague with a stick because he publicly called her and many other nominated MCAs prostitutes. He said they had no right to contribute to assembly debates, she said. Nominated MCA Lilian Osiema was suspended on Wednesday afternoon for beating MCA Absalom Wambulwa. He was not disciplined. She attacked him s after the assembly unanimously adopted a report by the Health Services committee that indicted top county health officials over the loss of Sh6 million. MCAs restrained Wambulwa from fighting back. He is hospitalised but the nature of his injuries was not disclosed. He did not respond to calls or texts seeking comment. "He abused me that I was a prostitute while we were discussing a report on payment of community health volunteers, " Osiema told the Starra. "I asked him to apologise and he declined," she said. The speaker said all members should contribute to the emotive debate, the nominated MCA said. "The member (Wambulwa) asked the speaker to speed up the debate. I asked him why he thought I shouldn't contribute and he told me that I was a prostitute like many other nominated MCAs. "I asked him whether he had slept with me and he dismissed me," she said. Osiena said she fought him in self-defence after he accosted her outside chambers.  She said she went to ask why he had abused her before other members. The alteration followed. She suffered a dislocated hand. The motion to suspend Osiema was moved by Absalom Andati and seconded by Philip Maina. Andati said Siema showed disrespect to other members and the assembly chambers in general. He said she violated Chapter Six of the Constitution on leadership and integrity. The MCA will also lose the parking sticker for her car, Sh5,000 airtime allowance and Sh39,000 commuter allowances during the suspension. She will also lose medical cover for one year and will not be allowed into the assembly precincts of the assembly. Another female MCA attacked the Butali-Chegulo ward rep Kelvin Maelo in September as MCAs signed a motion to impeach assembly speaker Morris Buluma. Maelo reported the matter to police but no action has been taken so far. Meanwhile, MCAs are divided on the validity of the health committee report they adopted on Tuesday after learning it did not bear the signatures of all committee members. It was unclear why the members failed to sign after a week's paid- for retreat in Kisumu to write the report. MCAs gave varied opinions as to the validity of the report and its possible implementation after it emerged that the members of the committee did not taqke responsibility by signing. “We are all idiots because what we did on Tuesday was zero work as the report cannot be implemented,” Sheywe MCA Job Mwamto said. Mwamto admitted that the majority of members did not read the report as it was circulated to them on the same day. Isukha West MCA Edward Shivemve said the report was binding as a majority of committee members contributed to the report and supported its adoption as reflected in the Hansard. “This is a report about sacking people and jailing some and those involved will always find something to clutch at. As long as no one raised issues about the signing and it was adopted unanimously, it is valid and the EACC and DCI should take up the matter,” Shivembe said. Shivembe said failure to have signatures on the report should be blamed on the house business committee, which allocates time for matters in the house after thorough scrutiny. Speaker Morris Buluma chairs the committee. The majority leader,  a member of the house business committee, said the chairman’s signature was sufficient proof that the committee owned the report. Minority leader David Ndakwa said that the report is valid even without the signatures, as long as no committee member disagreed. “Lacking the signatures could be caused by various reasons ranging from absenteeism by members and member bribery but the key signature is that of the chairman,” Ndakwa said. The report has recommended for removal from the office three top county public health officials over alleged misuse of Sh6.6 million. The money was meant to facilitate activities to strengthen community health. It called for the DCI and EACC to investigate. The three have not answered calls and text messages seeking comment for several days. (|Edited by V. Graham)  