A section of Homa Bay women leaders have supported the national government ban discos and live bands in the county. Beatrice Ogola (Homa Bay CEC for Energy), Joan Ogada (Kojwach MCA) and Zipla Opapo (secretary for Homa Bay municipality board) said night discos promote immorality among school children. During Mashujaa Day celebrations on Sunday, county commissioner Herman Shambi banned discos until the end of national exams. “All discos and any other night music operations have been stopped to allow candidates undertake their exams. The government will take stern action against those who will go against the directive,” Shambi said. On Monday, the women leaders said such night discos promote ills in society. “All candidates need to have a conducive environment when they sit their exams. We support what will promote education in the county,” Ogolla said. The leaders spoke during a prayer service for KCSE and KCPE candidates at Oriwo vocational training centre in Kojwach, Kabondo Kasipul constituency. The prayer service was attended by Migori county assembly speaker Boaz Okoth. Ogada and Opapo urged boda boda riders not to allow minors engage in the business. Ogada took the opportunity to issue more than 1,050 students with success cards. She also distributed more than 30 bags of rice and beans for the candidates in 41 primary and secondary schools. “Let school going students not be allowed to engage in boda boda operations especially during exams period because it affects their learning,” Ogada said. Opapo encouraged parents to remain vigilant with their children and avoid engaging in activities likely to interfere with the candidates during exams. “We all have the responsibility to ensure we create a conducive atmosphere for candidates to sit their exams,” Opapo said. Okoth discouraged candidates from engaging in exam malpractices likely to ruin their future. The speaker urged parents to allow their children join vocational training institutes to nurture their talents. “Students shouldn’t only focus on going to university and other higher learning institutions but consider joining polytechnics and vocational institutes to sharpen their talents,” Okoth said.