The police have arrested two primary school headteachers and Shinyalu NG-CDF officials over the loss of Sh2 million. Kakamega DCI boss Peter Kimulwa said detectives arrested Shivakala New Primary School head Patrick Lisamula, his Shamiloli counterpart Benedict Makhuyi and Shinyalu NG-CDF chairperson Elizabeth Shamalla on Wednesday night. Also arrested were former fund manager Trenk Masakha and Shinyalu subcounty accountant George Khisa. They were set to appear in court later yesterday to face charges of willful failure to comply with the Public Procurement and Disposal Act, abuse of office, stealing, conspiracy to commit a felony, making a false document and uttering a false document. The five, alongside others yet to be arrested, are accused of stealing the cash from the Shinyalu NG-CDF kitty between July and October 2018. Others are still They allegedly Sh1 million each to the two schools without a requisition and followed to collect the cash in collusion with the school heads. The cash was meant for infrastructural development. Nothing has been built thus far.  Lisamula, Mumkhuyi and Shamalla were accused of generating false minutes of the NG-CDF committee meeting with the intention to defraud. The three are also accused of creating false a project management committee. minutes for the two schools to steal the cash. Yesterday, Kimulwa said detectives were still pursuing former fund manager Robert Gesicho. More than 15 prosecution witnesses will testify. "As of now there is nothing linking area MP Justus Kizito to the theft directly, but investigations are still on because the theft appears to have taken a longer period," he said. The DCI officers are also hunting for the director of the M/S Imposing Technologies and project management committee members of the Sh3.5 million strategic plan for the financial year 2017-18. Officials of Besiwa Green Environment Group and the PMC members in the Sh1.7 million meant for environmental activities are also being sought. (Edited by F'Orieny)