Even before the mud dries following a rain-soaked Safari Sevens tournament over the weekend, Shujaa have already shifted their focus on next month's Olympic qualifiers in South Africa with an intense four-day training camp set to begin tomorrow Technical director-cum-head coach Paul Feeney said the training camp will be the final piece of the puzzle to the six players who will join the 18 contracted players for the 2019 -2020 season. “I already have the 12 players on my list and for the next four days, we will train, review video analysis of the Safari Sevens and see who deserves to make the final cut. It's not an easy thing for the head coach. We have had 24 players in training and to drop some won't be an easy job,” said Feeney. The former Auckland Blues and Stormers' coach said the performances of both teams — Shujaa and Morans — had given the technical bench a selection headache. "The two teams were impressive and some players put their hand up for selection and I believe they did a good job,” noted Feeney. Feeney said the team needs improvement but was delighted with the all-round performances from both teams. “Our lineout still needs work and some aspects of our work on attack need to be refined but overall, we are heading in the right direction,” added Feeney. Talisman Collins Injera, who suffered a shoulder injury in the quarterfinal match against Samurai will be assessed today, after missing the rest of the tournament. "He is a key player for us and we hope the injury is not too serious," said Feeney. He termed preparations as vital if Kenya is to qualify for the Olympic  Games and make a mark in the World Seven Series this season. "It's what you do behind the scenes that matters and I am glad we have done a good job so far," observed Feeney. The squad for the Olympic qualifiers will be chosen next week and are expected to depart for South Africa early next month. At the World Sevens Series, Shujaa face a Herculean task when they battle South Africa, England and Spain in Pool 'C' in the Dubai opener.