  Most roads in Eastlands under the Nairobi Regeneration Programme are complete, Kenya Urban Roads Authority has said. Only five kilometres are yet to be done, but the Kenya Urban Roads Authority says they will be completed in the next two months. The sections are the Catherine Ndereba–Tecla Lorupe link road, Soweto-Kayole Spine road and the access to Embakasi Girls Secondary School Kura director general Silas Kinoti said on Monday the programme has transformed the face of Eastlands with the job 95  per cent done. Last week, Deputy President William Ruto, while on inspection of the roads under the programme, called for speedy completion of the remaining sections. “Kayole residents must enjoy good roads like other parts of the city and the contractor must hasten to ensure they are completed in time. Good roads increase mobility, improve security and make access to goods and services easier,” Ruto said. Kinoti said the rehabilitation of the road has reduced traffic jams and insecurity Eastlands was notorious for. “This project will also greatly improve the perennial flooding in the area since drainage works and non-motorist transport facilities are extensively covered in line with the government’s commitment to open up this part of the city for business and development.” The programme is a joint project of the Nairobi county government and the national government. It was launched in April last year after a State House meeting chaired by President Uhuru Kenyatta. The job is costing the national exchequer Sh1.97 billion and City Hall Sh900 million. The first phase covers 79.4km of 38 roads in Eastlands and the city centre. Some of the roads already completed are Ambira and Sakwa, Manyanja, Kayole Spine, Maasai, Airport North, Utawala, Hamza, Rabai, Nile, Bumbani, Heshima, Buruburu Farmers and Lunga Lunga. Kura divided the project into three segments of 32km, 25.5km and 22.8km. The contractors are Chinese firms China Wu Yi, Sinohydro Corporation and China Roads and Bridges Corporation. Sinohydro Corporation is being paid Sh950.6 million, China Roads and Bridges Corporation Sh1 billion and China Wu Yi  Sh895.6 million.  In June, City Hall announced that Phase 2 of the programme would start soon at a cost of Sh1.5 billion. Most roads in Eastlands have in the past been notorious for congestion. They were flooded and impassable in rainy seasons. The roads lacked footpaths. This is now a thing of the past. 