History was made on Sunday when national Mashujaa Day celebrations were held in Mombasa, marking a moment of many firsts. It was the first time for the coastal town to host a national public holiday since Independence, the venue being Mama Ngina Waterfront Park that was recently refurbished. Again, it was the first time since Independence for the Kenya Navy to show its fighting prowess during the event. They displayed their equipment while at sea, including ships, missiles and guns. The President arrived at the venue at 11.25am in his ceremonial motorcade. Residents had all along braved the long queues and hot weather conditions to be part of history. And at exactly 11.30 am, the national and East African anthems were sung, marking the beginning of the ceremony. Kenyans were treated to a spectacular scene for the first time, as some grey and white vessels were introduced before the dignitaries. The sail-past followed entertainments and lasted for about 10 minutes past the Likoni crossing channel. Warrant Officer Mwandawiro, from the Airforce, who was the master of ceremonies, gave the microphone to a Navy officer to give details of the vessels as they cruised through the channel. The commentator alerted President Uhuru Kenyatta of the 21-gun salute that was to be done from the sea, with residents watching in awe as he described the speed of the vessels in nautical miles, years they were acquired, and the captains commanding them. The first female Captain in the Navy was in charge of one of the vessels. One of the vessels mentioned was KNS Mtafiti that was commissioned as the first high seas survey ship. It deals with oceanic research that has a promotional element of the blue economy. The 370 tonne KNS Harambee 11, which was involved in Operation Linda Nchi, was also in the inaugural sail-past that was seen as a break from the usual flypasts and flight prowess by the Air Force wing of the Kenya Defence Forces. Also at the sail-past were KNS Jasiri, KNS Shujaa, KNS Umoja, KNS Shupavu and several speedboats. The KNS Jasiri is an 85-metre-long warship, the largest vessel in the Navy fleet. Both KNS Jamhuri and KNS Harambee first came into service in 1976. The vessels can stay in the sea for 14 days at high speed without refuelling. KNS Doris was also on display. It is used by the recently established Kenya Coast Guard Service. It is envisioned that the Coast guard will work jointly with the Kenya Navy to safeguard Kenya's territorial waters. They are to deal with piracy, drug trafficking, illegal and unregulated fishing, contraband goods and proliferation of small arms, among other crimes. (Edited by F'Orieny)