Butali Warriors will miss the services of Constant Wakhura and Calvins Kanu in their next match against Western Jaguars on November 9 due to suspension. Defensive stalwart Wakhura and striker Kanu picked up a green and yellow card respectively in Sunday's 4-0 rout of Sailors at the City Park Stadium. Both players were one card away from suspension having accumulated two cards each prior to the match. Wakhura, who is also the national team captain has been solid and instrumental in defending the champions' unbeaten run this season and his services will no doubt be missed. Butali have conceded only seven goals in 14 matches. Kanu's four goals, on the other hand, have proved valuable as the sugar men need two wins in their remaining four matches to be crowned champions for the fourth time. Coach Denis Owoka, however, exuded confidence that he has enough cover in the affected positions. Amos Barkibir and George Mutira are clinical strikers who will complement the unavailable Kanu. Defensively, he said he might be tempted to change formation to a back three as opposed to his preference of four defenders. He expects little trouble against Jaguars whom they beat 1-0 in Kakamega. He said: “It is unfortunate that Wakhura and Kanu won't be part of the team that will face Jaguars. We are already without Frank Wanangwe for the rest of the season but we have enough cover in those positions. All my strikers have been sensational and that gives us hope.” “We might re-adjust our formation but Nickson Amadi and Brian Musasia can deputise in defence. The team need to stay focused, keep fit and be injury-free. We won't underrate our opponents but we will fight for maximum points.” Butali have opened a seven-point gap with second-placed Wazalendo who they face after the Jaguars match. They lead the table with 36 points. Owoka said their plan is to win the league with two games to spare. “We will still have two games after we play Wazalendo. Winning the league with two games to spare will be a big relief. No pressure at all when we tackle them and I hope we win to seal the title.”