 The Garissa county assembly on Wednesday became the 20th regional parliament to reject the Punguza Mizigo Bill after MCAs unanimously shot it down. The ward representatives said the bill would erode gains brought about by the promulgation of the Constitution in 2010. "A critical look at the bill shows that what it is taking away from Kenyans is much bigger compared to the gains," Justice and Legal Committee chairman Ahmed Ahmed said. Prior to the sitting, the MCAs were under immense pressure from county leaders to reject the Thirdway Alliance Party-sponsored bill. Governor Ali Korane, Senator Yusuf Haji and National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale all urged MCAs to reject the bill. The leaders held behind the scenes meetings with MCAs lobbying them to shoot down the bill, claiming approving it would embarrass the county leadership. Haji is the chairman of the Building Bridges Initiative, a task force birthed by the March 9, 2018 handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition leader Raila Odinga. The team is expected to propose amendments to the Constitution. An elected MCA who spoke to the Star on condition of anonymity said members were prepared to pass the bill but they dared not go against the county's top leadership. “As you might have noticed in the last two weeks, most of us who were very vocal about the bill and had publicly expressed our support for it suddenly went silent. This thing (the bill) was likely to cost us our seats if we dared support it,” the MCA said. But Majority leader Mohamed Gabow who had previously expressed support for the bill denied members were coerced to reject it. He said the bill was rejected because "a closer look revealed a lot of grey areas.' “I want to make it clear that our decision to shoot the bill down was not under the influence of anybody. As an assembly and in our own wisdom, we found out that the bill has enticing clauses but is too toxic to be consumed in its current form,” Gabow said. Gabow said the assembly will fully support proposals to be made by the Building Bridges Initiative. On Monday, Korane urged the assembly to reject the bill saying they will gain more from the BBI in which residents' proposals were captured. Duale had cautioned MCAs against passing the bill "lest they face the wrath of the community." So far, only Uasin Gishu county assembly has approved the bill with Lamu, Elgeyo Marakwet, Homa Bay, Siaya, Nakuru, Makueni, Nairobi, Nyeri and Murang'a among those that have rejected it. The bill had a deadline of October 15 to be debated and approved by at least 24 county assemblies to sail through and be tabled in Parliament.  edited by peter obuya