Vihiga county, a tiny area, has no major project and has failed to realise the full benefits of devolution, says  Senator George Khaniri says. "Other counties have done it so well. What of Vihiga? Are we cursed or is it just pride that will lead us nowhere?” he told the county assembly. “We lost the game in 2013-2017 on development, let’s not also miss it from s 2017-2022 miss it. He said during the Senate mashinani in Uasin Gishu, Kitui and Makueni counties devolution has given them history that will remain. “Milk coolants in Uasin-Gishu, have been set up to benefit farmers and job creation for jobless youth. In Kitui, a textile factory is there currently hiring youth and creating a good business environment. In Makueni , a  fruit processing factory has given them life,” Khaniri said. However, Vihiga remains in the dark with no flagship project to show. What shall we be bragging of when the senate mashinani visits Vihiga. Khaniri inquired? Khaniri said the county has poorly absorbed development budget funds, with only 23 per cent being spent in 2017-18. The assembly had allocated Sh.1.7 billion b for development for the 2017-2018 financial year However, only Sh.329.3 was spent (23 per cent) Sh1.4 billion remained unspent; the senate is ready to demand the answers, he added. With this 23 per cent on development, the county will never see the light of development, even if angels come from heaven to help. Previously chairperson for finance Henry Asava had raised a concern over development allocation. While tabling the budget in the assembly for 2019-2020, he said recurrent budget takes about Sh3.5 billion, leaving development with only Sh1.7 billion that cannot take complex projects of development. The governor needs to develop a proper plan to absorb development of this county that will one day earn him a legacy, Khaniri cited. Assembly speaker Hasna Mudeizi had appealed to the executive to start implementing its budget once passed to avoid delays in completion of developmental programs. Khaniri also urged the county to develop universal health program within the county. The program will help many poor families within Vihiga that are not able to meet medical bills to access medical services within the county. “If we develop this and control medical negligence in health facilities across the county our people will have something to talk about,”  Khaniri. said,  (Edited by V. Graham)