Concerns for the national team’s preparedness for next month’s African Cup of Nations qualifiers heightened after Harambee Stars were beaten 1-0 by Mozambique at Kasarani yesterday. A defensive mix-up between Samuel Olwande and Joseph Okumu allowed Campembe Amancio to steal in and prod the winning goal past Farouk Shikalo to earn Mozambique a rare away win against Kenya’s Harambee Stars. “We created enough chances to win this game comfortably but we did not take them and we were punished by our own mistakes. It’s definitely a concern when the result does not go your way but we have enough time to ensure we are ready before the next round of matches,” said coach Francis Kimanzi. Stars started the game strongly and the Mozambican custodian Franque was forced to fist away a dangerous cross from Eric Ouma as Michael Olunga and Cliff Nyakeya lurked with intent. The Kenyans were on top of their game in the opening quarter despite being frustrated by the slippery surface that made many of their passes go astray. Olunga again showed his predatory instinct to rob Musasi Sadik of the ball and fired a shot that was smothered by the goalkeeper. Moments later, the Kashiwa Reysol hit-man then ran onto a lobbed effort by skipper Victor Wanyama but skied his effort. Stars were knocking on the Mozambican goal and Olunga once again forced a save from Franque for a fruitless corner. The Mozambican was busy as moments later, he was forced to save a fierce shot from Nyakeya. The longer the game went on, the more confident the visitors became and they started asserting themselves more particularly down the Kenyans’ right flank occupied by Samuel Olwande and Nyakeya Three successive corners came their way but Joseph Okumu stood tall in the Stars’ defence. A quick throw-in caught Kenya flat-footed but Jose Luis shot off target with only Farouk Shikalo to aim at. As the second half started, Reynaldo Mandava came in for Mozambique in place of Manuel Kabala to reinforce their attack that finished the first half strongly. Kimanzi responded by introducing Duke Abuya for Clifton Miheso and Stars were again menacing. The Kariobangi Sharks’ forward headed an inviting cross from team-mate Olwande but Franque was up to the task and easily gathered the ball. The biggest cheer of the evening arrived with a quarter of the match remaining when Jesse Were took Muguna’s place. Ironically, the change made Stars even more vulnerable. A rare misplaced pass from Wanyama was almost punished with Jose Luis heading wide with a gaping goal after Shikalo had missed Francisco’s cross. The warning was not heeded and another counter forced Shikhalo to sprint way off his line and could have been made to pay but Joash Onyango thwarted Pelembe. The visitors finally broke the deadlock with fifteen minutes left to play when the Kenyan defence failed to clear the ball, allowing Amancio to snatch an unlikely winner. Were and another substitute Whyvonne Isuza had chances to restore parity but both fluffed their lines as Stars lost.