BY MAURICE ALAL @alalmaurice Kenya Union of Sugar Plantation and Allied Workers has demanded an immediate stop to the putting up of new weighbridges within the jurisdiction of the state-owned millers. The union’s secretary general Francis Wangara on Monday said the putting up of weigh-bridges by private millers in the areas owned by public companies was to blame for the troubles facing the millers. In April, the union got court orders compelling county governments where of cane-growing areas not to license the erection of new weighbridges. Wangara said the orders must be adhered to failing which the union will sue for contempt of court. Erection of weighbridges in jurisdictions of state millers contributes to cane poaching, Wangara said. “The cane shortage occasioned by poaching of growers has crippled Mumias which is now struggling under receivership,” Wangara said. He said it will be very unfortunate to protect one company or two at the expense of the rest. “If we don’t protect other companies, it is the farmers and workers who suffer because the companies will be closed down and workers laid off,” Wangara said. The unionist said both private and state millers must respect the law. “Nobody should be allowed to ignore court orders irrespective of their status in society.” Kenya Union of Sugar Plantation and Allied Workers has members in Kibos and West Kenya companies. "We cannot protect the two companies at the expense of other industries. We must protect all millers," Wangara said. He said Kericho county's decision to allow Kibos and West Kenya millers to put weighbridges was hurting Muhoroni Sugar Company. Muhoroni had started to operate but is experiencing cane shortage. “We want to state that it was wrong for the county government of Kericho to issue Kibos and West Kenya with permits to put up weighbridges yet they were served with court orders not to do so,” Wangara said. He wants sugar regulations in place to govern how sugar industry failure to which all factories will be closed making the country end up being sugar importers. “Sugar industry is the only organisation operating without rules and regulations to govern it. The rules were drafted but unfortunately some of the millers protested and up to now we don't have those rules and regulations,” Wangara said. edited by peter obuya