Last month Corridors told you of a senior politician who had hatched a plot with some international businessmen to persuade President Uhuru Kenyatta to purchase a new ship for the refurbished Kisumu port. Two weeks ago while inaugurating the Nairobi-Suswa SGR line, Uhuru made it public that indeed, the individual had attempted to present his scheme were it not for the Kenya Navy that told him that the vessel could not cost what the politician had quoted. During Mashujaa Day celebrations, in Mombasa, the politician is said to have attempted to whisper to Kenyatta that it was unfair to embarrass him in public. Those in know say the President brushed him off. Has an MP from Rift Valley made frantic efforts to try and reconcile with the Deputy President William Ruto? Sources have told Corridors that the legislator, a one-time staunch defender and supporter of the DP, but fell out after 2017 General Elections, has dispatched a group of elders, not once, but seven times, to talk to the DP. Like the biblical prodigal son who left his father’s home after demanding his inheritance only to come back after squandering the cash, the legislator is said to be pleading to be allowed back “as he was misled by wealthy power brokers to desert DP’s camp” in exchange of better goodies which never materialised. Normally governors are considered wealthy individuals who will have no problem spending money to entertain friends and to even impress. However, a resident of a county in Western whispered to Corridors that his governor's spending habits could redefine the meaning of a miser. His governor hoards cash and spends as little as possible to an extent he sometimes embarrasses himself. Why would a governor ask his guests to order drinks and then keep asking for the bill to make sure nobody asks for more than three beers?. Panic has gripped a road agency with a regional office following a move to suspend some officers. Those suspended reportedly reached out to the National office in Nairobi to take action against an employee who mishandled female staff last week over claims of using the toilets poorly during their menses. The official is said to be cold-hearted and embarrasses staff in presence of guests who visit the county office. Now, there is fear that the head office might swing into action and  tame the employee and the powerful forces behind her.  