A group of Nairobi county Jubilee MCAs has launched a fresh bid to impeach speaker Beatrice Elachi. At least 67 ward reps have signed the motion to remove the speaker who only returned to the assembly two weeks ago following her impeachment in September last year. "We support the impeachment of Elachi," Majority whip Waithera Chege said at a press conference in Nairobi on Monday. Elachi had adjourned sittings. She said she took the decision to give time for normalcy to return and to allow members to find ways of sorting out existing differences. Regular sittings will resume on Tuesday in the afternoon after the speaker gazetted the resumption date as October 29. Speaker Elachi said she had a meeting of the House Business Committee which locates what is to be discussed at the plenary and it will be business. “We expect to do normal business as usual and we have just had a meeting of the House Business Committee and allocated agenda for the afternoon sitting,” said Elachi. Elachi had earlier stated that she was ready to work with all MCAs, dismissing claims her return to office owes much to support by ODM MCAs. Jubilee MCAs, led by Majority Leader Abdi Guyo, claimed that some individuals have planned to cause chaos when the House resumes and called on police IG Hillary Mutyambai to beef up security in the assembly precincts. They said they had never set foot in the assembly precincts since Elachi returned for fear of being attacked. The leaders also took issue with Jubilee Secretary General Raphael Tuju of meddling in the affairs of the Assembly. Waithaka MCA Antony Kiragu said that depsite the court deciding to reinstate Elachi, they will still impeach her. “Last year September the house impeached her with 103 votes and we will take her down again,” he said. However, the MCAs said they will be present on Tuesday, when the house resumes sittings. “We will be present for the plenary and also for the committee sittings and we shall continue with our mandate, “he said. Utawala MCA Patrick Karani is expected to move the notice of motion on impeachment. Nominated MCA June Ndegwa however said that the section of Jubilee MCAs who are supporting the impeachment are seeking protection of the clerk. She further questioned the MCAs' agenda after it was announced by the Jubilee Party that Elachi was recognised as the speaker. "As MCAs of the Jubilee party we had a meeting with the SG and it was agreed and made public that Elachi was the speaker.Why should a few MCAs go against the party?" she questioned. Ndegwa also stated that the last impeachment was filled with intimidation and victimisation and this time round it will fail. "Last year, members were intimidated and threatened. To be dewhipped from committees but this time round we are smarter. Elachi will remain to be our speaker who is recognised by the handshake,"she said. Supporting her sentiments Hamza MCA Mark Ndung'u challenged his colleagues and said they should make the signatures being collected to impeach Elachi public. "We are aware that they are using last year's signatures and we want them to display them to the public," he said. Ndung'u also said that they will welcome dialogue once his colleagues realise that they are going against the party. He also stated that the house business committee sat on Monday and already planned the house agenda for the week.