President Uhuru Kenyatta will be addressing the nation tomorrow Sunday during the Mashujaa Day Celebrations which will be held at the Mama Ngina Waterfront Park in Mombasa. The President is expected to address various issues concerning Kenyans and what his government has in store for the country. Among the major issues that are expected to be given the first priority in Uhuru's speech include the recognition of heroes and heroines who have contributed  in one way or the other to the development of the nation. These include the freedom fighters who contributed to the liberation of the country by dedicating their lives to ensure that the colonial system comes to an end. Uhuru will also be expected to laud the efforts of Kenyans sportsmen and women who have made the country proud using their talents in various fields. Marathon elite and the Olympic Champion Eliud Kipchoge will be expected to lead a list of sports-persons who have made the country proud. Kipchoge became the first person to run a 42-kilometer marathon in under 2 hours during the  Ineios Challenge. Kipchoge was flown to Mombasa by a Kenya Wildlfe Chopper and checked into a hotel by Sports CS Amina Mohamed. The President is also expected to laud the Kenyan team that participated in the 2019 IAAF  World Championships in Doha, Qatar where Kenya was ranked 2nd worldwide after the US. Others who are expected to be honored with the Head of State Commendation awards include Peter Tabichi who won the prestigious Global Teachers Prize in Dubai earlier this year. Tabichi, a Mathematics and Physics teacher at Keriko Mixed Day Secondary School in Nakuru county, beat nine other contestants to take home the grand prize of $1 million (Sh100,000,000). The President is expected to touch on security by recognising the heroes who were on front line to rescue Kenyans during the Dusit D2 attack. The Kenya Navy and the entire multi-agency team that took part in the recovery of Likoni Ferry victims also expected on the list. The teams worked day out for 13 days to retrieve the body of Mariam Kigenda and her four year old daughter Amanda Mutheu. The two died at the Likoni Crossing after their car slid off the ferry and plunged 58 metres in the ocean. BIG 4 AGENDA is also expected to be featured in Uhuru's speech., which includes food security, affordable housing, manufacturing and affordable healthcare for all. World Bank Vice President for Africa Hafez Ghanem assured of the Bretton Woods institution’s support for Kenya’s Big 4 development blueprint when she met with the President. The is government planning to construct 500,000 affordable housing units by 2022 under the housing pillar of the Big 4 Agenda. The government rolled out Universal Health Care for all lat year in Kisumu, which is still being piloted in Kisumu, Isiolo, Nyeri and Machakos counties before full implementation in 2022. Kisumu, Isiolo, Nyeri and Machakos counties have been piloting UHC since April last year. This is the third conference after two others were held in Machakos and Nyeri. Health CS Sicily Kariuki launched the Human Papillomavirus Vaccine for women on Friday. Kenya joined 115 countries that have the HPV vaccine as part of their routine immunisation schedules. The President will also be expected to touch on the Building Bridges Initiative. BBI team concluded their findings and are expected to hand over the final report to President and ODM party leader Raila Odinga. Uhuru said on Friday in Mombasa that BBI is meant to create an inclusive government where everyone feels to be part of the government. He had earlier dismissed claims that BBI will create positions for politicians. The President will also highlight the progress made in the construction of the Standard Gauge Railway(SGR) and its benefits to the country once it is complete. He inaugurated the Nairobi-Suswa SGR line (Phase 2A) programe on Wednesday, runs to Naivasha and passes through the five counties of Nairobi, Kajiado, Kiambu, Nakuru and Narok. The President is also expected to touch on the increasing unemployment among youth. This comes amid public outcry of him favoring the old against the youth. The President will also be expected to touch on the national security matters and mourn the death of 11 GSU officers who died on duty after their vehicle ran over an Improvised Explosive Device between Liboi and Damajaley.