The outgoing Kenyatta University Students Association chairman Joshua Ayika has been blamed for the unrest that resulted in the closure of the institution. Kusa said the disturbances witnessed at the university on Monday and Tuesday were initiated solely by Ayika. “His statement was not processed through the Students Governing Council as required under Kusa constitution and is therefore not the union’s position,” Kusa said in a statement. Secretary general Fred Mumoki said that the call for demonstrations was in complete disregard of the university’s laid down procedures for dialogue and settlement of disputes. Ayika shared a memo calling for peaceful demonstrations against the administration, leading to the unrest. The university, through an internal memo, said the disturbances disrupted lectures and caused the destruction of property. Yesterday, Kusa said that the outgoing chairman had not written to the university management on any one of the issues he raised. It said Ayika also never called for any meeting with the SGC members or the management to address the said issues. “In fact, he is on record through his social media handles rubbishing a letter addressed to the vice-chancellor over the extension of the fee deadline, which is one of the issues raised,” Kusa added. It said the issues students were facing had been communicated to management and were in the process of being addressed. The students had complained about an increase in fees, claiming that the graduation fee had abruptly risen from Sh3,500 to Sh6,000. There was also the forceful use of the Nyayo Footbridge put up by the government for the security of students residing in the Nyayo Zone which is on the other side of the university. Kusa noted that mandatory use of the footbridge is a matter that the union has brought to the attention of management who assured them that they would convene a meeting to discuss the matter. “Students are therefore urged to be patient as the matter is being addressed,” Kusa said. On the sacking of casual workers, the union distanced itself from the matter as it does not fall within its mandate. “The casual workers have a union competent enough to address their concerns,” it said.