Wajir and Mandera peace advocates on Thursday met to promote harmonious coexistence between communities living in Belowle in Mandera West. Both communities agreed to build mutual trust over the sharing of natural resources. Chiefs agreed to take action against perpetrators from their localities or neighbouring centres. The gathering was convened by the directorates of peace from the neighbouring counties following a recent attack in which 15 people were killed and scores of others injured in Dumaal village, Malkamari, Banisa subcounty. The raid had resulted in tension along the Wajir-Mandera border. Belowle is mainly inhabited by the Garre community. Because of its proximity to the border, however, other communities such as the Degodia and the Ajuran graze their livestock there during droughts. The migration in search for pasture and water has unsettled the communities and led to fears of revenge attacks. Also blamed for the problems are boundary issues and identity politics. A series of peace meetings have been held in an effort to restore calm along the border and avert a full-scale conflict. Speaking at the Thursday meeting, Wajir county director of peace, cohesion and integration Hussein Aden said peace was the most important thing on earth and no human being can do without it. “We can do without any other thing apart from peace. When it's not there, it affects everybody and everything. Never should we fight and kill each other for whatever reason. There is no justification at all for people to engage in bloodshed,” he said. “These conflicts have had negative impacts on lives, livelihoods, trade and education of the communities. There has been unnecessary loss of life and many injuries and displacements. We should never go that route again.” A number of public and private sector actors have been involved in ending the conflicts and restoring peace. They include the government, civil society and community-based organisations. Local leaders, including elders and clerics, and herders have also been part of the peace efforts. Elders condemned the killing of seven people in Banisa two weeks ago. Armed bandits were blamed for the deaths. Mandera West peace chairman Mohamed Dahir said conflicts will derail development and hamper peaceful coexistence. They resolved to continue spreading peace messages throughout the region. (Edited by F'Orieny)