Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago has given land grabbers in Eldoret three months to surrender the parcels. He said his administration will take back the grabbed land which is required for use by the county government and members of the public. Mandago expressed anger that all public playgrounds in residential areas had been taken by grabbers. “These are playgrounds that had been reserved for our children and other people to use for recreation but individuals with no care for our children grabbed the plots and put up buildings”, he said. The governor spoke at Eldoret Sports Club during an event organized by Philips East Africa in partnership with Kenya Red Cross Society to create awareness on heart related ailments. Mandago said his administration has plans to revert to the public all the playgrounds and other plots that are in the hands of land grabbers. “If you are part of the grabbers and you are in possession of land or plots you know belongs to the public, then you should surrender it before we come for the land and you to face the law,” Mandago said. He said illegal structures or buildings on such land would be demolished by the county government at the cost of the grabbers. Mandago said the county lacks land for use to put up public facilities like schools and hospitals because most of the plots set aside for public amenities had been grabbed. The CEO of Philips East Africa Jasper Westerink, Nandi Deputy Governor Yunita Mitei and Uasin Gishu county assembly Speaker David Kiplagat attended the event. Mandago expressed concern over increased cases of heart attack and related diseases among the young generation. He attributed the trend to inadequate physical activity and asked the youth to undertake regular exercise to keep fit. He said that regular physical exercise will reduce the cost of healthcare management in public and private hospitals. Philips East Africa CEO Westerink said they will partner with devolved units to create awareness on good heart health through various activities aimed at increasing the chances of survival of victims of the attacks. “We have rolled out campaigns on good health to enlighten the public on some of the factors causing heart related disease in partnership with North Rift counties,” Westerink said. He said the firm was committed to raising awareness by promoting lifestyle change through physical exercise to ensure cases of heart diseases are reduced.