@oloo079 Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi has promised to run for Siaya governorship in 2022 if ODM leader Raila Odinga endorses his candidature. Wandayi is among those eying Governor Cornel Rasanga's position. The MP on Saturday said he will not go against Raila’s wishes if the former Prime Minister endorses his candidature for any top position in the 2022 General Election. “If Raila tells me to jump high, I will not ask why but ask how higher,” Wandayi said amid cheers from supporters. He was speaking at Asang Primary School in his Ugunja constituency during the homecoming ceremony of Siaya nominated MCA Andrew Omwende. Raila's wife Ida was present. Wandayi said he was ready to battle it out for the county's top seat with other candidates. Among those angling for the position are Senator James Orengo, former Rarieda MP Nicholas Gumbo and ex-banker Dan Omoro. Gumbo unsuccessfully ran against Rasanga in 2017. The succession debate was sparked off by Omwende who pleaded with Ida to endorse Wandayi for the seat. He said the two-term lawmaker has what it takes to govern Siaya. “I plead with you Mama Ida to consider Wandayi for governor position because he has the leadership skills,” Omwende said. Wandayi asked his supporters not to despair, saying the race fr governor entails a rough political terrain. He said elected leaders should strive to initiate development projects for the benefits of communities. “We need a unity of purpose and development which Mama Ida stands for,” Wandayi said. He asked residents to vote for a governor who embraces inclusivity, transparency and is responsible. However, Ida steered clear of the succession debate despite the crowd asking her to rally support for Omwende to become Sigomere MCA in 2022. Omwende was nominated by the ODM party to represent people with disabilities in the Siaya county assembly. She instead asked residents to vote wisely and chose leaders that are worth their salt. The event was attended by Siaya first lady Rosella Rasanga, assembly speaker George Okode and many MCAs.  edited by peter obuya