A section of Mombasa fishermen says that the ongoing dredging works might hamper their catches with the newly introduced boats. On October 23, the county government gave fishermen 28 high-density fibreglass fishing vessels. Fourteen Beach Management Units got two boats each, giving the stakeholders optimism in fish production. The drawback in coastal fishing has been attributed to over-reliance on artisanal fishing gear and techniques. “We are really glad that Governor [Hassan] Joho has done this for us because now we cannot claim that we lack equipment,” Wavuvi Association of Kenya chairman Hamid Mohammed said. “But my worry is that the dredging (by the Kenya Ports Authority)might cause the fishing fraternity not to realize 100 per cent performance as many might expect with the acquisition of the new boats." Mombasa fishermen have long complained that the dredging is depleting fish stocks due to the disturbance of fish breeding areas. “Dredging activities have affected our work in many ways. Diving fishermen cannot see clearly underwater, fish breeding sites have been destroyed and we can no longer harvest enough fish,” Likoni fisher Mohammed Chivirugo said. “This new equipment will enable fishermen to dive as they need to go underwater to set up the ring nets. But the water quality has been affected and there is very poor visibility. How will this work out?” Mohammed asked. KPA is deepening and widening the harbour before the construction of the second phase of the Mombasa Port. The dredged material is dumped in the high seas according to KPA, but other stakeholders claim the disposal is done not too far offshore. KPA, however, says dredging and dumping of waste at sea has not been shown to affect fisheries in the way that critics allege. “The National Environment Management Authority approved that the second phase of the port project does not warrant any compensation to fishermen on the basis of environmental damage,” KPAs head of corporate affairs Bernard Osero said. Edited by R.Wamochie