Nyamira Senator Okong’o Omogeni has backed calls for the formation of a commission to probe the Kenya Tea Development Authority in the wake of this year's low bonus payment. Last week, the Senate unanimously named an ad hoc committee that recommended the formation of a commission of inquiry. The ad hoc committee was chaired by Kericho Senator Aaron Cheruiyot. Omogeni asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to form the commission. “The tea sector is on its deathbed. If the sector collapses, it will spell doom to thousands of Kenyans. The only solution is the formation of a commission to investigate the agency,” he told The Star. The senator has been meetings farmers in the county to get their views. He appealed to them not to uproot the crop. Last Sunday, he met farmers at Nyansiongo. “The tea sector needs a massive overhaul. To save small scale farmers, KTDA should be reformed, uprooting the crop is not a solution,” he said. He said farmers across the country are dissatisfied with how the agency is handling their affairs. “There is hue and cry all over the country over the recent bonus payment. That is not the problem facing farmers, the huge taxes should be done away with and farmers given fertiliser subsidies,” Omogeni, who is also a tea grower, added. He further claimed that wrong decision-making my KTDA management made farmers lose Sh21 billion in the collapsed Imperial and Chase banks. The senator said tea auction should be done at the regional level. “Every time there are low payments, farmers are told that the prices at the Mombasa auction were low. This ‘monster’ called Mombasa tea auction should be devolved and done regionally." He said the burden of constructing factories should not be on farmers. “The government should chip in and help farmers put up more factories. Tea plays a very critical role in the economy of the country." Farmers who spoke at the meeting said they are not properly represented by directors. “When we identify a director who can properly represent us, he or she is locked out on flimsy grounds,” one farmer said. The small scale tea growers supported the senators' resolution to have the top management of KTDA investigated by the DCI. Separately, North Mugirango MP Joash Nyamoko says MPs from tea growing areas are engaging the Ministry of Agriculture on how the ailing sector can be revamped. “We are concerned about the dwindling fortunes of tea growers and we want to find a lasting solution." Edited by R.Wamochie