A health lobby group has asked the national government to immediately carry out a cancer census and declare the disease a national disaster. It says current cancer statistics are six years old, outdated and need updating. Disease Eradication Civil Society Assemblies (DECSA) led by lawyer Karen Nyamu addressed the media yesterday at City market. "The statistics available on cancer are six years old and they state cancer accounts for seven per cent of the overall mortality rate. We know the prevalence has multiplied," she said. Nyamu said the government should have taken advantage of the national census  in August to collect new data on cancer. Emily Mugo, a member of DECSA, said the government should consider a petition presented in Parliament on August 1 calling for cancer to be declared a national disaster. "We are tired and it is quite shameful that we are called a cancer country. We cannot only be talking of cancer when a prominent person dies. What about the other ordinary citizens who succumb to the disease every day?" she said. Mugo stated there was urgency to reduce cancer deaths through increased public awareness. The government should start a cancer awareness campaign countrywide. "Through education and awareness, people will get to detect cancer at early stages and seek medical attention. Those free from cancer can get to know the measures they can take to live a cancer free life," Mugo said. The World Health Organization says cancer is the third leading cause of death in Kenya after infectious and cardiovascular diseases. The country records 37,000 new cases, with an annual mortality of over 28,000. WHO states that between 30 and 50 per cent of cancer deaths could be prevented by avoiding risk factors and through early detection, which includes screening. Nyamu proposed a multi-sectoral and multi-disciplinary approach in dealing with cancer. She said the government should set up a special fund for cancer screening, treatment and palliative care, boost cancer health education and promote sensitization of the public. Nyamu proposed that the government should set up cancer centres in all level3, 4 and 5 hospitals. The state should increase accessibility, affordability and quality treatment, regulation of local and imported  products, funding of local research on cancer and implementation of the National Cancer Control Strategy 2017-2022. "I will personally present the memorandum to the ministry and if possible have discussions with the CS on the way forward," she said. In July, the Nairobi county assembly urged Governor Mike Sonko to set up cancer centres in all hospitals. The ward reps said that will play a key role in early detection of the disease that has become a burden to many Kenyans. Karura MCA Joseph Wambugu who moved the motion said screening and prevention is the best long-term strategy to control cancer. "Cancer is the third deadly disease leading to deaths of many, after infectious and cardiovascular diseases. If we have these centres especially in major county health facilities, we will reach out to many people whose lives can be saved," he said.