A certain MP is worried that a powerful and moneyed trade unionist might have come back to snatch his wife. This is the second wife of the vocal and ambitious politician. Our mole, who is a friend of the randy MP, said the politician's wife ran away from his posh city home a couple of weeks ago and he has been unable to trace her. The politician worked hard to get back the wife, including purchasing an expensive limousine estimated to have cost Sh20 million and assuring her that he would always respect, adore and protect her. This is on top of a Range Rover, V8 and a Volkswagen parked at the MP’s compound. It is the second time the woman has run away from the lawmaker. Is the Kenya Revenue Authority planning a major system upgrade that will link its tax platform to the customs team under the Immigration Department? Well, there are claims the taxman is launching a vicious anti-graft war on tax evaders by making sure suspects do not fly out of the country in the coming months. The system will be interlinked in such a manner that Kenyans with tax arrears will not get any clearance from the Immigration Department to fly out of the country even on private trips. Corridors of Power understands that it is only a matter of days before the system is put in place. A powerful Cabinet secretary who has amassed wealth in the past year is the talk of the town. The CS has been expanding his investment portfolio across many sectors as he plans a 2022 political debut. In line with his vision, he has acquired a posh home courtesy of a state corporation on an upscale estate in Nairobi. The CS, who paid a cool Sh6 million cash, made the purchase through a law firm that handles his investments. It is not clear why he did not walk into the state agency and pay the money himself, but questions abound as to where he got the money. The law firm has been buying so many properties in its name to conceal the cash trail in what might attract anti-graft detectives. Not all is well at the national broadcaster, KBC. Reason? Corridors has been told that staff on contract are on a go-slow over what they termed mistreatment and demoralisation. They have not been paid for months and that led to some boycotting work this week. They say while some have served in the national broadcaster for as long as nine years on contracts, they are never considered for permanent employment when positions are advertised. They are now crying out to ICT Cabinet Secretary Joe Mucheru and the relevant parliamentary committee to come to their rescue. They hope for a special audit of the Human Resource department, saying it is the genesis of their tribulations. Who will listen to their cries?