Virtually all the rivers in Tharaka constituency have dried up due to drought and illegal abstraction. Efforts are underway to dismantle illegal water abstractions responsible for drying up of perennial rivers flowing downstream from the Mt Kenya catchment area. Tharaka Nithi county commissioner Beverly Opwora said on Monday that besides trucking water to drought-stricken areas, the county and neighbouring Meru county are removing all illegal water intakes in the Mt Kenya Forest. They are supporting work of the Water Resources Management Authority (Warma). “Warma started dismantling illegal abstractions on September 24 and joint efforts by the two counties are on course to ensure river waters reach the lower parts of Tharaka constituency,” Opwora said. She disclosed the information during a Mashujaa Day preparation meeting in her boardroom. During the meeting, Tharaka Nithi executive for Public Service and Administration said virtually all rivers in the constituency have completely dried up. He said the sight "pained him to the marrow". Meanwhile, the county commissioner said the governor will continue giving relief food and water to the parched areas until the rains come. Last week, the government launched the Food for Fees programme to ensure pupils in drought-stricken areas remain in school and concentrate on their studies. Launching food trucks and water boozers at Marimanti in Tharaka constituency, Opwora said school attendance has declined but said the programme would reduce the fees burden on parents so children will not be sent away. She also said water boozers will truck water to all schools, health facilities and villages and the constituency is refilling tanks recently supplied to schools. Ten schools in the constituency have been supplied with water storage tanks. Opwora said 320 needy pupils from Tharaka constituency are benefitting from the Food for Fees programme at a critical time when candidates will sit the national examinations. (Edited by V. Graham)