After a 10-year-long trial, Nanyuki high court judge Mary Kasango set free Nicholas Wanjohi who had been accused of killing a colleague in Endana, Nanyuki. Feeling sorry for the victims yet constrained by the law, Kasango said she was placed in the "unenviable position" of having to rule on a case that was shoddily investigated. “As I write this judgment, there is no doubt in my mind that all players of the justice system failed in ensuring that the person/s responsible for the death of the deceased were brought to book,” she wrote. The case is one among many where officers have been blamed for bungled investigations and failure to follow the law and laws of evidence, hence, giving guilty persons a ticket to undeserved liberty. Back to Nanyuki. Kasango added, “The reason for so stating is because the police did an extremely shoddy investigation and consequently failed to avail witnesses who could possibly have assisted the court to reach a just determination.  In addition, the murder trial has been inordinately delayed in its conclusion before the courts”. Nicholas Mwangi died after he was shot eight times on April 5, 2009. Wanjohi was arraigned before the Nyeri high court on May 12, 2009. He was charged with murder. The case should be shifted to four different judges. Wanjohi and the deceased were AP officers deployed at Endana AP Camp where they shared quarters. The area assistant chief testified that Wanjohi went to his home to report that the camp had been attacked by bandits. As he was preparing to accompany the officer to the scene, he received a call from a police informer who told him that it was, in fact, Wanjohi who had killed Mwangi. Informer Wilson Kiragu was not called by the prosecution to testify. Therefore, the assistant chief’s evidence on what the informer said was dismissed as hearsay. “In my view, the combination of a shoddy investigation by the police and the prolonged trial before different judges had a negative effect on the outcome of the case,” Kasango ruled. At the crime scene, the assistant chief retrieved three spent cartridges that, upon examination, were determined to have been fired from Wanjohi’s G3  rifle. In his defence, Wanjohi said he heard gunshots and ran to the scene where he fired three times in the air before he saw his colleague, who had gone to buy cigarettes and maize flour, lying injured on the ground. The accused said that the area of the Endana AP camp was notorious for cattle rustling and crime. “The prosecution simply presented evidence relating to ownership of the G3 rifle and the number of ammunition fired on that fateful night. The case was very poorly investigated. Indeed I would even go further to state the case was not investigated at all,” the judge said. Police spokesman Charles Owino, however, said the police did the best they could and that a ballistics report would effectively determine who shot the deceased. “We have very efficient forensic experts who would be able to determine how the accused was shot. Besides, the defence that the accused shot in the air would not stand. We only shoot in the air when there is a charged crowd that is not armed,” Owino told the Star. The doctor who performed the post-mortem had found that the deceased died of eight gunshot wounds. “From the evidence adduced by the prosecution, it is clear that there was no direct independent witness of the murder of the deceased. Suspicion no matter how strong does not obliterate the duty of the prosecution to prove the case beyond reasonable doubt against the accused,” the judge said. Such cases are not uncommon. Last week, at least four cases, including a defilement case in the Kibera law courts, were dismissed after the investigating officers failed to show up in court. Lawyer Harrison Kinyanjui, appearing before Kibera Magistrate Esther Boke, expressed his dissatisfaction with the adjournment of a trial that has been underway. “The accused has been in court religiously ever since he was charged but the prosecution keeps adjourning the case on flimsy grounds where one time the officer holding the file is unavailable, another time it is the complaint. Such should not be condoned,” Kinyanjui said. Police spokesman Owino said a trial court has the power to summon investigating officers if they fail to appear for a case. He said that some judicial officers look for insubstantial reasons to discharge a case that shouldn’t be dismissed. In an ongoing case where a former first secretary of Venezuelan embassy to Kenya, Dwight Sagaray is charged with the murder of Acting Ambassador, Olga Fonseca in July 2012, an investigating officer shocked the court when he stated that he did not ask for a CCTV footage in the house, despite having seen the cameras. In another case, three people — Andrew Matendechere, David Ngwambe and Evans Shilingi who had been convicted with trafficking narcotics — were released after a High Court judge found that police mishandled evidence obtained from them. Justice James Makau found that the police officers, one based at Kisumu International Airport and dealing with narcotics, and the other attached to CID were very casual in handling of the case. “They did a shoddy investigation and failed to carry out very vital procedures in the handling of this case,” he said. Five witnesses testified that they received six bags of plant material from the two, yet an officer altered some of the labels without countersigning. The narcotics were also weighed without the presence of the accused and an authorising officer as required by law. In fact, the weight of the bhang (112kg) was added later using a different ink not bearing the writing below of the same date or by the same pen as the one before the insertion of the weight. “Exhibit nine had initially been marked A1 to A5 but changed to A6 without any countersigning. I find that failure of the Prosecution to comply with the law is fatal to the Prosecution's case,” he said. Before quashing the earlier sentence, the judge also called into question the correct identification of suspects, another aspect of police investigations that jeopardise cases. In the National Police Service Act, an identification parade must follow the set-out procedure which entails having the accused placed among at least eight people of similar height, age and general appearance. Witnesses are asked to pick out the person he/she believes committed the offence. Witnesses should provide a description of the accused before taking part in a parade. In cases relying solely on the evidence of identification, it is imperative that the description of the offender made by the victim during the first report to the police is recorded and later produced in evidence. In this case, none of the witnesses provided a description to identify suspect Shilingi who claimed that he had gone to see his friends who had been arrested before he was also taken in. “I find in the instant case the third appellant was not positively identified as circumstances of identification were not favourable and free from a possibility of an error,” he ruled. While some lawyers and prosecutors blamed police officers for deliberately or unintentionally bungling cases, police spokesman Owino defended his team asserting that they do the best possible to ensure justice. “Investigation is not easy because most crimes are well-planned and any traces carefully covered,” Owino said. He added, “The police really try even though there are some cases that are very difficult to break. In such cases, we sometimes use circumstantial evidence.” Owino said they pass all their cases through the Director of Public Prosecutions who advises on whether or not the case can proceed to court. The police boss admitted, however, that individual police officers can be compromised or just they bungle a case. “If we get such reports where an investigating officer willingly or intentionally acted with negligence, then we can charge them according to our standing orders, which include getting dismissed from the service,” Owino said. (Edited by V. Graham).           