Bungoma chief Finance officer Chrispinus Barasa has resigned after apparent fallings-out with his bosses. There had been claims the chief officer was under intense pressure to quit after refusing to flout procurement rules in favour of some county officials. He had, on numerous occasions, differed with his bosses, whom he accused of failing to adhere to the Public Finance and Management Act. He had surprised MCAs with the revelations when he was summoned by a county assembly committee. In his resignation letter, however, he said his resignation was due to his decision to pursue greener pastures. Reached for details, Barasa declined to comment. "I’ve resigned but I don’t want to speak anything on the matter as it stands now," he said. Efforts to get Wangamati’s comment were unsuccessful. He and his communications director Tim Machi did not return calls or respond to text messages. Barasa had served in the same capacity from the first county administration that was headed by Governor Kenneth Lusaka, who is now the Senate speaker. When Governor Wycliffe Wangamati took over, the chief officer posts were readvertised but Barasa declined to reapply for the job. ”How can I be interviewed for a job I’ve been doing all these years? If they want to replace me let them go ahead,” he said at the time. Wangamati renewed his contract. His colleagues who had reapplied were shortlisted but were never reconsidered. On Thursday, an MCA who is close to Barasa told The Star his resignation was long overdue. He said Barasa had complained in assembly committee meetings when he was summoned to explain a few issues in relation to the Finance docket. The ward rep said Barasa liked to follow procedures but that did not augur well with some county officials. Musikoma MCA George Makari shared similar views, saying many of those in the inner circle of Governor Wangamati’s administration did not take Barasa’s advice. He said the chief officer was worried that some of the things Governor’ Wangamati’s henchmen wanted him to do would finally land him in trouble, hence called it quits. (Edited by F'Orieny)