Security agencies in Lamu are on high alert following reports of planned Shabaab attacks in various parts of the region. There have also been reports of planned IED attacks on security and public transport vehicles. The reports have been confirmed but rubbished by county commissioner Irungu Macharia who termed them fake. Speaking in Lamu on Wednesday, Macharia said the Lamu-Somalia border was fully secured. “We’ve indeed heard about those reports of al Shabaab militants and cells being spotted. Currently, our border is secured. I can confidently say this is fake news if not propaganda,” Macharia said. Reports had indicated that an al Shabaab cell was this week spotted advancing to Kiunga while another cell was seen advancing Mararani, which is inside Boni Forest. A multi-agency security operation has been ongoing for five years in the Boni Forest area. The Linda Boni operation was launched by the national government in September 2015, its the key objective is to flush out Shabaab terrorists believed to be hiding in the vast forest. Other reports indicated that another group of militants was seen crossing into Kenya through Astani located between Ras Kamboni and Kolbio on the Garissa-Lamu border on October 13 and 15. They are said to have been using donkeys which are believed to be carrying ammunition and other supplies. Reports indicate the militants are planning a major attack on security forces undertaking the Linda Boni operation. Macharia assured wananchi that they were well prepared for any eventualities. He asked residents to ignore such information saying it is being spread by propagandists to instil unnecessary fear. Residents have, however, been asked to stay alert and inform security agencies of any suspicious persons or incidents in their areas. The reports come as a bad dream for Lamu which has enjoyed some tranquillity after years of havoc at the mercy of Shabaab militants between 2014 and 2017. The Linda Boni operation has recorded major strides over the years and managed to deter terror attacks. Last year in September, security agencies discovered and destroyed several Shabaab hideouts inside the Boni Forest. Bombs and other paraphernalia were also recovered destroyed. In November 2017, security officers taking part in the operation discovered and destroyed six Shabaab transit camps which had been established inside the forest. An assortment of weapons among them several AK47 rifles, grenade-making paraphernalia, foodstuffs and drugs among other items were discovered. An undisclosed number of terrorists were also killed during the ambushes and bombing of their hideouts by the security agencies. Edited by R.Wamochie