Football Kenya Federation FKF acting Chief Executive Officer Barry Otieno has revealed that the soccer governing body will not offer closed contracts to future Harambee Stars coaches to avoid costly litigations like they have had in the recent past. Adel Amrouche, who was named the Harambee Stars coach in February 2013, was awarded a five-year contract but only lasted 18 months at the helm before he was sacked after failing to guide Stars to the 2015 African Cup of Nations. His Sh108mcompensation is yet to be paid as ordered by Fifa. Scot, Bob Williamson, whose case is in court is demanding Sh55m. Henri Michel who was hired because of his impressive resume having been the French National team coach when they won the European championship in 1984, only lasted four months. He is however still demanding 45 million. While claiming these were problems inherited from the previous regime, Otieno said no coach will be given an unchangeable contract. He said: "As a federation, we've agreed no coach will have a closed contract. Beginning with current coach Francis Kimanzi we have decided if we terminate your contract we pay you for two months. We inherited problems from the previous regime and the federation is now expected to pay Amrouche Sh108m within one month to avoid Fifa sanctions. Williamson wants Sh55m while Michel is demanding Sh45m. We have reached out to the government to help us pay." "For all these coaches, there was none we signed a contract with. Their agreements were there before we took over. When you inherit a federation, you inherit everything (good and bad). Regrettably, we inherited many bad things but we must do something." Commenting on lack of sponsorship in football and the potential exit of Bamba sport, he said: "It is a bad time for football. We are talking to clubs and companies but not so many are willing to join sports. Sportpesa's Sh600m is gone, Betin is gone. Bamba Sport, who have been shooting National Super League, has given us a notice that they will not be able to continue with the contract. Regrettably, football has been hard-hit." 