The planned unveiling of a presidential library and museum has run into a hurdle after a case seeking to block it was lodged in court. A company known as Furncon Limited which designed and manufactured presidential instruments wants the October launch of the library put on hold until it is paid Sh3.5 billion for work done and the loss it suffered. Presidential instruments include emblems, presidential flag and the throne. The company was handed the presidential seat used by Jomo Kenyatta to enable them understand and redesign. Also given to them was the presidential mace for redesign. The company says despite making the instruments which have been used by at least three Kenyan presidents it is yet to be paid. It has the instruments in custody for the last 26 years, forcing the firm to hire guards to keep watch over them round the clock. The company says it did extensive research when it was given the work by Office of the President in 1990 and came up with instruments which were used by presidents Daniel arap Moi, Mwai Kibaki an Uhuru Kenyatta. "We had to look relentlessly for ways and means of meticulously designing, processing and perfecting the presidential instruments befitting specific ceremonial state functions with Kenyan history, culture, traditions and practices that would take care of the health of the President and therefore the life of the President, with the highest consideration of the aesthetics and posterity of the country of Kenya," suit papers say. State officers of various ranks such as military generals, brigadiers, colonels, majors and captains consistently checked on the progress while State House was represented by government receptionist Ruth Kiptui. Former Chief of General Staff Mohamud Mohammed chaired the board which approved the instruments, the company says. However after the work was completed no pay was given. The company says efforts to seek payment were met with harshness under the Moi regime and even drove the company to shut down only to resume work after Kibaki took power. It now wants the government to pay Sh3.5 billion for rehabilitation so that it can regain business. "Having been designers of international reputation we aspired to approach other African countries for similar assignments, military forces and the Kenyan market but we could not do so we had closed our business," court was told. As a result of bad relationship between itself and government, the company says it lost a major furniture design and processing business deal in Japan. The company has sued the Attorney General. It has listed State House employees Munira Mohammed, Chief of Staff Nzioka Waita and the Presidential Strategic Communication Unit as interested parties. Furncon says it will suffer prejudice if the presidential library, museum and exhibition is allowed to proceed without including the instruments in its possession. "Our effort and patriotism will have been put under the carpet and we may never get paid by the government where the government is duty bound to compensate damages caused by one dictatorial party rule," the suit papers say. Furncon was incorporated in Kenya in 1982 and one of its objectives is design. Over time it earned itself international reputation majoring in research, designing symbols and processing instruments.