France will look to emulate England’s physical approach against the United States when they face Gary Gold’s side in the World Cup today, says Les Bleus coach Jacques Brunel. England scored seven tries to beat the US 45-7 on Thursday and top Group C. France are third after a narrow opening win over Argentina and Brunel has made 12 changes for the game in Fukuoka. “We’re wary of this American side because of the physical qualities they’re developing,” he said. “The English did a good job of dominating them. We hope to do the same.” France have just four days to recover after the match against the US before they face Tonga in Kumamoto on Sunday. They then play England in their final match on 12 October in a game expected to decide the winner of the pool. Brunel denied his changes to play the US — which include leaving out fly-half Romain Ntamack and scrum-half Antoine Dupont while recalling Camille Lopez and Maxime Machenaud - give clues as to who will be in their starting XV against England. “We did not think about the composition against England,” the 65-year-old said. US coach Gold has made five changes to the side that lost to Eddie Jones’ men, largely due to injury or suspension. John Quill is suspended after being sent off for a shoulder charge on Owen Farrell and is replaced by Hanco Germishuy. Bryce Campbell, Mike Teo, Eric Fry come in for injured trio Paul Lasike, Will Hooley and David Ainu’u. Meanwhile, Japan’s surprise victory over Ireland has given All Blacks coach Steve Hansen the perfect chance to remind his side not to be complacent against Canada or they could get a punch on the nose. The tournament hosts turned the World Cup upside down with their 19-12 win in Shizuoka on Saturday and Hansen is keen the All Blacks do not follow suit in Oita today. “If you disrespect the opponent you’re playing you get a punch on the nose,” Hansen said. “Canada probably haven’t the strength they have had in the past, but what they are is a very proud team, a very proud nation and they’re led by a very, very good rugby player in Tyler Ardron. And they’ll play with a lot of pride.” Having been through four previous World Cup campaigns, with Wales in 2003 and the All Blacks in 2007, 2011 and 2015, Hansen is well aware that a team must grow into the tournament and peak at the right moments — preferably the last three weeks. The side had an 11-day break after their first game against South Africa and the coach upped the intensity level at training in the seaside resort city of Beppu before settling into a normal test week preparation. The idea, he said, was to ensure they are continuing to improve and players are challenging each other to be in the starting side for each game. Hansen made 11 changes to the starting team that beat the Springboks 23-13, with Jack Goodhue back from a two-month injury layoff, while the entire front row has been changed and Shannon Frizell and Matt Todd come into the loose forwards. Hansen, however, has stuck kept the dual playmaker tactic with Beauden Barrett at fullback and Richie Mo’unga at flyhalf and will encourage his side to continue to attack when they have the chance. “We’ve always had a philosophy — play what’s in front of you. If it’s time to push it, we’ll push it. If it’s not on to push it, we’ll do something else,” he said. The North Americans struggled in a 48-7 loss to Italy in their opener last week in Fukuoka and have lost all five of their previous encounters with the All Blacks, including a 79-15 defeat at the 2011 World Cup. But Canada coach Kingsley Jones, who has made six changes to his starting side, felt they could still give the All Blacks a competitive match. “We have a tremendous amount of respect for New Zealand,” said Jones. “We can’t wait to fire against them and see how we come out in comparison to some of the best players in the world. “We’ve got some tries in us so we’re not afraid to have a go but of course we’ve got to play in the right areas.”