The Public Investments and Accounts Committee is a critical organ in the Devolution architecture. The Senate, as you are aware, is the defender of devolution and therefore the PIAC committee plays a very crucial oversight role over county governments. It is no doubt that the office of the Auditor-General has been returning damning verdicts on the counties' prudence in the expenditure of public funds. Once such reports reach the Senate, they are delegated to the committee to scrutinize the expenditures. However, in some instances, senators have been often accused of witch-hunt and corruption. The accusations and counter-accusations have resulted in a not so harmonious relationship between the counties and the Senate. For instance, the other day we saw Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua being sanctioned by the committee for failing to appear before them over audit queries. The kind of exchanges we witnessed between the governor and the committee was totally uncalled for. It is important that the Senate cultivates a culture of professionalism and embracing public participation. As it is, there is very little room for public participation in the proceedings of the committee. The committee must endeavour to make its sittings more accessible to members of the public in accordance with the Public Finance Management Act. There is always a missing link between the committee's reports and the state agencies that should take them up for action. Such a disconnect is costing Kenyans dearly as there lacks a legal framework to make the committee's reports automatically actionable once they have been released. That explains why the committee must step up its public participation model to give them more public confidence. The oversight committee's work must not be seen as trying to undermine the office of the governor. There have been reports of some interested parties trying to use the committee to either intimidate, blackmail or witch-hunt governors. The Senate must make the committee's sessions professional and conducive for governors to honour invitations without feeling threatened or harassed. The Senate must ensure the harmonious and congruent relationship with the county governments for the best interest of devolution. If both the Senate and the governors worked closely to complement each other, devolution would be a massive devolution story to happen in this country. The governance and policy analyst spoke to the Star