The entire world is holding its breath as  Kenyan Olympic champion Eliud Kipchoge attempts the previously unthinkable feat of breaking the two-hour barrier. Kipchoge, 34, will be attempting to run under two hours in a 42km race dubbed Ineos 1:59 challenge on Saturday in Vienna, Austria. Kipchoge's coach, Patrick Sang, said Vienna's course is on public streets and spectators are encouraged to attend. “One element that is very important for Eliud is the crowd,” Sang said in a written statement. “So please, come and support Eliud on the 12th October and cheer him on to help him make history.” Deputy President William Ruto has cancelled a weekend rally earlier planned for Nakuru and left for Vienna to cheer on Kipchoge  as he makes history. Ruto left for Vienna on Thursday evening accompanied by his wife Rachel Ruto. In a tweet on Thursday, Rachel said they will fly to Vienna ahead of the race to celebrate their own. "We celebrate our own Eliud Kipchoge! Just like we did in 2017 in Monza, Italy, when he broke the world record running the marathon in 2:00:25, we will be there once again in Vienna, Austria, cheering him on as the greatest marathoner of all time," she tweeted. Also expected to watch the race live in Vienna are governors Stephen Sang (Nandi) and  Jackson Mandago (Uasin Gishu). If you don’t happen to find yourself in Austria on Saturday, you can still watch. All local stations on TV will air the race live from 7.20am. Supersport channel 8 on DSTV will also air the event live. Sports CS Amina Mohamed said the INEOS 1;59 challenge will be screened at KICC on Saturday from 7am. Entrance will be free. If you are on the move, you can still watch Kipchoge’s race against time. It will be streamed live on the INEOS 1:59 YouTube channel. Broadcast coverage will be shown in more than 200 territories across the world. The INEOS 1:59 Challenge has agreed on a partnership with YouTube that will enable viewers to watch Kipchoge’s historic attempt to run the first sub-two-hour marathon live from wherever they are in the world. In the US, NBC will air it live on the Olympic channel. I feel more ready and prepared, a confident Eliud Kipchoge  told the world ahead of his race. "I am confident because I have been there before. All kilometers in the race are critical and I treat all the distance I will run as critical," the world marathon record holder said on Thursday. Kipchoge came close to breaking two hours in 2017, during the  Nike sponsored  breaking event on a car racetrack in Monza, Italy, when he crossed the line in 2:00:25. Like that event, this attempt will not be record-eligible because of the number of pacemakers involved and the ability to take hydration and fuel delivered by supporters on bikes, among other variables. The run in Vienna is sponsored by INEOS, a chemical producer based in the UK, and dubbed the “1:59 challenge .” It will utilize 41 pacemakers who will cycle in and out as teams.