After returning from a month-long training with Germany's VFB Stuttgart, Kenyan international Willis Okeyo is contemplating of calling it a day in men's National Hockey team. Okeyo, alongside Wazalendo's Dunston Baraza, was privileged to train with Stuttgart courtesy of an exchange programme between the Kenya Hockey Union (KHU) and their Germany counterparts. The duo jetted back on Monday night. The player, who doubles up as USIU-A Spartans coach, revealed that he had served the national team for years and feels the time is up to pave way for younger players. He said the Olympic qualifiers held in South Africa two months ago would be his last appearance in the Meshack Senge's coached team. Apart from the two, five more players are set to jet to Germany for a similar training beginning next year. Gilly Okumu of Strathmore University Scorpions is among the five and will be making her return to Eintracht Frankfurt. Lilian Aura, Maureen Okumu and Flavia Mutiva are also beneficiaries of the programme alongside Butali's Moses Ademba. Okeyo, who is attached to Kenya Police, said he is considering retiring from the national team to concentrate on fine-tuning Spartans and club duties which include both Police and Stuttgart as he is a registered player with the latter. He said he had played four competitive matches for the club this year. “I have had good times with the national team and I think the Olympic qualifier match against Namibia was my last match. "I am still open to and ready to undertake any assignment the union will deem fir for me. "Even though I am yet to fully decide, I feel it's time I relinquished the position in the midfield for younger players," he added. Okeyo in the meantime tipped Spartans to break the Telkom's dominance in the ladies Premier League courtesy of the coaching skills received in Germany. He also disclosed plans of imparting the same to all coaches who ply their trade with clubs registered in the union's leagues. “It was yet another month of unrivalled exposure. We were taken through the modern drills to meet the changing demands of the game. I am keen to share what I received with the girls and I think we will be able to end Telkom's dominance in the league. Similarly, I want to share with the coaches in the best interest of the development of the game in the country.”