President Uhuru Kenyatta has urged African heads of state to put measures in place to preserve cultural heritage and historical assets. Uhuru on Thursday said a country that does not know its history will not understand its present and will find it hard to navigate through today’s complex world. Uhuru was speaking in Ethiopia, where he joined other regional Heads of State and Governments at the inauguration of the Unity Park, a museum inside the Ethiopian National Palace that documents the country's journey through generations. The head of state said preservation of African cultural heritage and historical assets will serve to restore the dignity, honour and well-being of the African people. “Preserving and restoring African cultural heritage and the protection of our environment is a huge investment that we as leaders must continue to champion tirelessly,” Uhuru said. Uhuru said Ethiopia is a constant reminder of why Africans should preserve their culture and traditions, and guard the hard-earned sovereignty of African states. He said Addis Ababa remains a historical icon and significant city on the African continent because of Ethiopia’s reputation as one of the countries that successfully resisted colonialism. “Ethiopia is endowed with a rich and colourful history that makes it unique on the African continent.  As one of the few countries to resist and defeat efforts at colonialism, it serves as a constant reminder of the need to preserve our culture and sovereignty,” he  said. He commended Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed and the political leadership of Ethiopia for efforts to entrench democracy and create unity in the country. “I would like to commend you for the bold steps you have taken on political reform and gender inclusivity. "Opening the Palace is an indication of your efforts to entrench democracy,” President Kenyatta told PM Ahmed adding that Kenya and Ethiopia continue to enjoy cordial relations as the two neighboring countries mark 55 years since they established bilateral relations. The Unity Park which comprises the palaces of former rulers of the country among them Emperor Menelik II and Emperor Haile Selasie pays tribute to Ethiopia’s legacy as an unconquered country during the continent’s dark period of colonisation by European powers.