Divers trying to locate and recover the bodies of a mother and daughter whose car plunged into the Likoni channel six days ago may be looking into the wrong area, a marine expert claims. Chief marine engineer-turned-surveyor Titus Kilonzi on Friday said the vehicle in which Marian Kighenda, 35, and her 4-year-old daughter, Amanda Mutheu, were trapped may have been swept by currents into territories beyond where the search and recovery efforts are concentrated. Kilonzi, who has more than 30 years of experience in such matters, said this is not the first he has witnessed such an incident. "Guys are blaming the divers and the authorities but they need to have the human understanding of the dynamics involved," said Kilonzi. He said the terrain of the seabed is irregular, with creeks and crevices that make it difficult to assume where the vehicle might have landed. He said when the vehicle plunged into the ocean last Sunday at around 6.15pm, it was during the high tide. The high tide usually comes between 4.30pm and 10.30pm. During this time, according to Kilonzi, the current speed is usually around four nautical miles per hour. This translated to about 10km per hour. Kilonzi said this speed, coupled with the nominal buoyancy of the vehicle, means it did not sink to the sea bed immediately or at the same spot it plunged into the water. "Buoyancy is brought about by the tyres of the car, which were inflated, and the fuel tank. "This means the vehicle was suspended in water while being pushed by the currents at that speed. "It could be anywhere right now," said Kilonzi. This could explain the failure to spot the vehicle in most of the 14 areas the Kenya Navy, KPA, Kemfri and private divers said the vehicles could be located. On Friday, the Swedish diver who claimed he could locate the area the vehicle was in about 15 minutes and retrieve it in two hours given a chance, arrived at the scene. Volker Bassen, a scuba diving specialist, joined the recovery efforts. He, however, did not talk to anybody other than government spokesperson Rtd Col Cyrus Oguna. Kilonzi called for patience, saying the Kenyan divers have done what they could, given all the conditions. "The channel had been undergoing dredging for the last one-and-a-half years," said Kilonzi. "Before that, the channel was around 70m-90m deep," he said. "Let's face it. There is no superman or any other superhero," said Kilonzi. He, however, said the data so far collected will help give the divers better chances of success in their mission.