Arsenal playmaker Mesut Ozil is fast becoming a thorn in the side of manager Unai Emery. The two do not always agree on strategy and how Ozil should be used in the Arsenal attack. Only this week the two were talking in an intense manner on the training ground and Ozil was likely demanding to be recalled into the team. It is true that Emery would like to see Ozil gone but when he offered the German to other European clubs in the summer, there were no takers because of his huge £350k a week wages. Arsenal is split into two camps, those who want Emery gone and Ozil to stay and those who would prefer to sell Ozil. Emery still struggles with the English language but there is no mistaking his criticism when he says, “Others deserve to be in the team more than him and when we need physical presence and intensity I do not play him.” Ozil is an 'assist' specialist and his statistics rival the best in the world. However, he does blow hot and cold. One week he can win a match but at other times he goes completely missing and the manager recognises that fact. Emery is trying to freeze Ozil out of the club and prefers to play Joe Willock, Dani Ceballos or even Bukayo Saka. Emery does not like having an unwanted superstar on his books and especially one who is the centre of attention wherever he goes. Emery relates to Pep Guardiola at Barcelona when he sold Deco, Ronaldinho and even Zlatan Ibrahimovich because they did not play well with Lionel Messi. Guardiola’s actions were proven correct by achieving huge success and winning honours and titles however Emery still has his doubters at the Emirates Stadium, where he has achieved nothing as yet. Giroud unhappy on the bench Chelsea striker Olivier Giroud is not a man to sit on the bench for very long without making his disappointment known to the manager. He thought his time had come to make a favourable impression in the game against Newcastle because the Blues were having problems breaking down the Magpies’ defence. Gaining the ball, holding up play and dominating with his height and strength is what the big Frenchman is all about. He could not hide his dismay when manager Frank Lampard sent on American Christian Pulisic as the striking substitute. Pulisic was originally considered by Chelsea as Eden Hazard’s replacement before the emergence of Mason Mount. Giroud is determined to keep his place in the French national squad and he knows that without regular first team football that will be difficult. Giroud is 33 years old now and he wants to get away from Chelsea to create more opportunities for himself but Lampard is reluctant to let him go. He said this week, “He shouldn’t be happy and accept not playing. That’s what good players do. I will happily sit down with Ole in January but that is a long way off and I want him here.” Giroud, however, I can tell you, has other ideas. Rashford and James show the way forward Manchester United fans were furious with ex-manager Jose Mourinho when he said publicly that striker Marcus Rashford always tries to put the ball on his right foot whether driving forward or shooting. Many teams will have been making a note of that. Mourinho should know as he managed the talented youngster and watched him in training every day when he was manager at Old Trafford. Just recently, many teams have played deep against United and quickly closed down Rashford with the result that he has been less effective. Liverpool made the mistake at Old Trafford of opening up the game and coming forward through the middle which gave Solskjaer’s team the opportunity of using Daniel James on the wing and he tortured the Liverpool defence combining with Rashford who put in his best performance of the season in the centre. Mourhino heaps sarcasm on United Speaking about Mourinho, it was all fun and games in a TV studio before the Manchester United v Liverpool game with guest pundit Jose Mourinho clearly out to cause as much mischief as he could. He attacked just about everyone at United except for the fans and it was notable that during the game they chanted Mourinho’s name over and again. Clearly, Ole Gunner Solskjaer is not everyone’s favourite. The best comment from Mourinho came when he said he would enjoy a job like Solskjaer’s where you manage a club and always talk about how things will be great in the future. That way a manager would never be sacked as the plan is always to move forward! Managers at war over bad tackle A row has broken out behind closed doors between Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp and Leicester City’s Brendan Rodgers. When the two teams played each other earlier this month on October 5, Leicester midfielder Hamza Choudhury went into a tackle on Mo Salah very hard which has resulted in the Egyptian striker being on the injured list for nearly three weeks. Klopp accused Choudary of an over the top dangerous tackle but Rodgers has defended him claiming, “The reaction to Hamza’s tackle was right over the top. The boy went in to make a tackle, that’s all. Mo Salah is a world-class player but you are allowed to tackle him. You have to ensure you stay aggressive without overstepping the line. We play aggressive but sporting football.” Klopp, along with Liverpool supporters are angry that Mo has only just recovered and missed the tie at Manchester where Liverpool struggled to score. Liverpool told me that Mo is ready for selection against Tottenham this weekend. Palace eye a new striker Crystal Palace manager Roy Hodgson sent his sporting director Dougie Freedman to Scotland last weekend to watch Rangers striker Alfredo Morelos. I have been told that Freedman was impressed with the Ibrox favourite who has scored 62 goals in 110 games. He has already scored 14 goals this season with five assists. Hodgson has discussed the player with his management team and I understand Palace are lining up a £20million bid for January. Rodgers hard on his youngsters Despite Leicester’s excellent start to the season and their challenge for a top four spot, manager Brendan Rodgers wants more from his strike force and particularly his wingers. Harvey Barnes created the pass which gave in-form Jamie Vardy his equaliser against Burnley last weekend and Demarai Gray sent over a good cross for Youri Tielmans to score however Rodgers wants even more. He said this week, “Our wingers need to do more. The problem is that they perform better coming off the bench but I need them to start and play hard and fast from the beginning of the game. I need more assists and more goals from them. They are young and will improve but their development is vital.” Hazard  and Alli on the comeback trail Since leaving Chelsea for his dream move to Real Madrid, Eden Hazard has failed to impress the Spanish fans. His form has been disappointing to say the least. However, in front of just a handful of Madrid fans this week in the Champions League, manager Zinedine Zidane was applauding the Belgian star. Hazard combined well with Toni Kroos and Karim Benzema and he was at the centre of all that was good about Madrid. Winning 1-0 at Turkish club Galatasaray eases the pressure on Zidane whose job is under threat after winning only five games from nine and losing to Mallorca last weekend. Jose Mourinho is widely tipped to return to his old job as Real manager if Zidane is kicked out. Meanwhile Spurs striker Dele Alli turned in a decent performance for Spurs in their 5-0 demolition of Red Star Belgrade, also in the Champions League. Alli is convinced that his new fitness is down to hiring a nutritionist and taking up yoga. He has cut out all processed commercial food, sugar and snacks and takes high protein drinks and lots of water. The result is that Alli looked leaner and sharper. His runs were not what they once were but after a series of hamstring injuries the new diet will no doubt provide improvement over the next few weeks. Gomez and Davies save Silva’s Everton job On Monday morning at the Everton training ground, it was obvious that manager Marco Silva was a relieved man. Many had predicted that a loss to West Ham would signal his departure. Marco gambled on pairing Andre Gomez and Tom Davies in midfield and it raised a lot of eyebrows. Gomez was making his first appearance in seven weeks following an injury lay off and Davies was making his first start this season. It could have all gone so wrong but it didn’t and the pair were impressive, worked well together and controlled the midfield. Their pace and accuracy completely dominated the West Ham partnership of Declan Rice and Mark Noble, both very good players indeed, and it is possible that Silva might have found a way forward for his midfield this season. Klopp and his good deeds This week, we saw the very good side of football. “Mr Nice Guy” Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp is to be praised for his generosity in donating £10k to the South African charity ‘Joy is Round’. The charity runs football teams for children aged between seven and 18 years and promotes and raises funds for community football through the sale of balls, art and clothing. The amazing thing is that no one knew of Klopp’s generosity and he has been contributing for over two years, supporting the project throughout and making visits to Cape Town to meet organisers and youngsters.      