As hundreds of voters of Ikolomani constituency, Kakamega county queued in polling stations in 2017 waiting patiently to cast their votes, ANC candidate Butichi Ramadhan Khamisi was one of the faces in their ballot papers. Butichi and five other candidates were battling it out for the Member of Parliament post for Ikolomani. The other candidates were Bernard Shinali, Mukhuno Vincent, Masindi David Muyonga, Albert Mwilitsa, and David Liyali. Jubilee's Shinali floored the five candidates gathering 15,898 votes while Butichi came a close second with 14,768 votes. They were followed by Mukhuno Vincent (3,414), Masindi David (1,717), Albert  Mwilitsa(569) and David Liyali (391). PETITION Butichi, an engineer and vice chairman of the JKUAT alumni association, filed a petition at a Kakamega's court in a bid to nullify the election results. In his petition, he accused Shinali of the widespread use of violence during the election period. He also accused Shinali of undue influence and misuse of state resources. "The Petitioner made the following allegations against the respondent's widespread use of force or violence during the election period by 2nd Respondent(Shinali), undue influence and misuse of state resources," read the petition. Kakamega court Judge Ruth Sitati dismissed the petition in February 2018 and declared Shinali the winner. ANC TO FORD A year and eight months later Butichi is among the leading candidates seeking to become the next Kibra MP. Over 100,000 registered voters on November 7 are expected to vote one of the 24 candidates to be the next Kibra MP. The by-election was occasioned by the death of Ken Okoth who succumbed to cancer. Butichi, a 37-year-old father of four was declared the Ford Kenya's flag bearer on September 1, days after defecting from Musalia Mudavadi's ANC party. "I hereby wish to inform you that I have with immediate effect forfeited my life membership status from ANC party under the ambiance of free will of association or disassociation," wrote Butichi in his twitter account. "I, therefore, request you to strike out my name from the membership list of ANC expeditiously," he added. His sentiments came two days after ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi fronted  Eliud Owalo, a former ODM presidential campaign manager as the party's flag bearer. CAMPAIGNS With only 12 days left to the Kibra by-election, the candidates have intensified their campaigns in a final push to woo residents. Butichi on Friday embarked on an aggressive campaign trail, visiting schools as he distributed success cards to KCPE candidates. He has strategised on door-to-door campaigns selling his manifesto of education, equity in resource distribution and opportunities, talent and job creation. The schools he visited include Stara, St Juliet, Green pastures and New adventures.