  Five family members who were charged with damaging property and causing fracas at a funeral in Kakamega have been acquitted. Amisi Omukanda, Albert Mukanda, Boniface Mukanda, David Amisi and Benson Andayi were acquitted by Kakamega senior resident magistrate Erick Malesi. They had been charged on June 14 last year with 10 counts including violently damaging property and causing violent harm. They were accused of smashing windscreens of vehicles, destroying two steel doors and a gate belonging to Linet Washiali, Patrick Nyanje, Abdalla Juma, David Maloba, Enos Anzetse, and police constable Robert Wabuko. Omukanda separately faced charges of issuing threats and stealing 15 rounds of ammunition and one pistol magazine in Navakholo. The confrontation followed disagreements about funeral arrangments for relative Brown Tsuma. The accused wanted Tsuma's body to lie overnight in Linet's house before his burial but she resisted the plan. Luhya customs demand that a corpse stays in the house where the dead person used to live before it is moved to the burial place. The disagreement degenerated into a fracas that ended up in court. Linet is sister of Mumias MP Ben Washiali. On September 23, Malesi dismissed the case and acquitted the five accused after the prosecution failed to raise witnesses to proceed with the case. The prosecution had sought a fourth adjournment of the case, saying there were no witnesses. The prosecution said the witnesses had been bonded but they never turned up. “Adjournment is declined. This is a fairly old matter. We’re being told witnesses were bonded but have failed to attend court without explanation being offered. How sure are we that they will attend court in the next date to be given?” Malesi said. The magistrate also declined a prayer by the prosecution to withdraw the case under section 87 (a) of the Criminal Procedure Code, saying the accused could be re-arrested and charged with the same offences. “With no evidence presented against the accused they are all acquitted under section 210 of the code,” Malesi ruled. Omukanda has now written to the Independent Police Oversight Authority seeking to have Wabuko’s conduct investigated and action taken against him. The officer was attached to MP Washiali as a bodyguard but accompanied his sister to confront the community. This, Omukanda says, amounted to misuse of firearm. edited by peter obuya