The newly commissioned Mama Ngina Waterfront Park was a sea of humanity on Sunday as President Uhuru led the nation in celebrating the 56th Mashujaa Day. Guests arrived in style with most of the men including Deputy President William Ruto and Governors Hassan Joho (Mombasa) and Amason Kingi (Kilifi) donning colourful floral shirts. Opposition chief and African Union Special Envoy Raila Odinga, like President Uhuru, wore plain white African attire. Marathon hero Eliud Kipchoge, who was awarded the Order of the Elder of the Golden Heart (EGH) by President Uhuru, wore a Kenyan branded track suit as he sat next to Chief Justice David Maraca, who was also donned in a floral shirt. Kipchoge received one of the loudest cheers every time his name was mentioned. Uhuru described him as a living legend and urged Kenyans to copy his dedication, hard work and discipline. "We should never limit ourselves to the ordinary," said Uhuru. Kipchoge on Octiber 12 became the first human to run a 42km marathon in under two hours. By 4am, the gates to the venue were opened and under tight security, members of the public allowed in. There was thorough screening at the entrance with sniffer dogs to screen any suspicious languages. By 8am, majority of guests had arrived at taken their seats. But there were long queues outside as more people flocked the venue to have a glimpse of the happenings. The famous Maroon Commandos played the favorite old tunes. Uhuru’s official band also filled the air waves with soothing tunes. The head of State arrived in his official armored ceremonial car. After inspecting the guard of honour mounted by Kenya Army, Kenya Air Force and the Kenya Navy, Uhuru made his way to the pavilion. First lady Margaret Kenyatta and DP Ruto’s wife Rachel Ruto were among the guests. Majority leader Aden Duale, Chief Justice David Maraga, National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi and Siaya Senator James Orengo were on the front row of the pavilion. The event started with entertainment from the men and women in uniform, followed by Kenya Scouts before religious leaders offered their prayers. Various dance groups were given a chance to entertain before host governor Hassan Joho took over. Though Raila Odinga was not on the list of those scheduled to speak, he was offered an opportunity before Deputy President William Ruto and later President Uhuru Kenyatta.