Veteran Andrew Amonde will skipper Shujaa for this weekend's Safari Sevens tournament slated for the RFUEA ground. Amonde, who has a long distinguished career for the outfit, leads a powerful squad that will see returning Collins Injera and experienced Willy Ambaka donning Kenya team colours for the first time in a year. Exciting talents of Daniel Taabu and Mickey Wanjala have also been roped in the team. Homeboyz forward Jeff Oluoch will captain the Morans squad who have in their ranks the likes of youngsters Johnstone Olindi, Geoff Okwach and Herman Humwa. Kenya Sevens coach-cum-technical director, Paul Feeney, said the two squads were well balanced and exciting hence he expects a competitive two-day Safari Sevens show. “No team is stronger than the other hence compositions of both teams is perfect. If you look at Shujaa, we have paired Collins and Taabu at the half-backs because they play together at Mwamba,” added Feeney. On the forwards, Feeney said they have gone for experience with the likes of Amonde, Bush Mwale and Willy Ambaka for Shujaa whileMorans have Jeff Oluoch and Vincent Onyala. "Humwa will come off the bench and we expect a thrilling team full of the x-factor especially when you combine the speed of Olindi and Okwach,” he added. Feeney said they have worked on individual skills, drills on defence and clarity on individual roles for all the players.  “The players are heading in the right direction. We have worked a lot on the areas in the past couple of weeks and I expect the team to be firing on all cylinders come weekends," he noted The New Zealand-born coach said the two squads will be well tested in this weekend's tournament.  "It's encouraging to see very strong teams coming for the tournament and the boys will play against seasoned sides and this will show where we are as a team," noted Feeney Shujaa are in Pool 'C' alongside Blue Bulls, Russia Academy and Zambia while  Morans are in Pool 'A'  together with powerhouses South Africa, Uganda and Burundi. Following the Safari Sevens, a 12-man squad will be named for the Olympic qualifier slated for South Africa next month with a 20-man squad unveiled for the World Seven Series which starts in December in Dubai Shujaa Andrew Amonde (c), Bush Mwale, Willy Ambaka, Brian Wandera, Charles Omondi, Collins Injera, Mickey Wanjala, Daniel Taabu, Oscar Denis, Nelson Oyoo, Mike Okello, Jacob Ojee Morans Jeff Oluoch (c), Vincent Onyala, Alvin Otieno, Timothy Mmasi, Dan Sikuta, Monate Akwei, Herman Humwa, Ian Mabwa, Davis Nyaundi, Johnstone Olindi, Geoffrey Okwach, Joel Inzuga, Collins Shikoli     