The October-December season could replace March-April-May as the main rainfall season in parts of Kenya, according to one projection. Most long-term historical trends show the long rains (March-April-May) have been decreasing, while the intensity of the short rains (October-November-December) has been rising. That trend is expected to continue. In parts of the country, the short rains season will become the heaviest by 2100. University of Nairobi's climate change specialist Godwin Muhati shows in one scenario, the MAM rains and the OND rainfall between 2006 and 2100 are projected at 368 mm and 337 mm, respectively. "For the RCP8.5 scenario it is projected at 359 mm (for MAM) and 369 mm (for OND), respectively," he said in a study, 'Past and projected rainfall and temperature trends in a sub-humid Montane Forest in Northern Kenya'. The study, co-authored with Daniel Olago and Lydia Osaka, is published in Science Direct journal. The MAM season is currently the main planting season in Kenya while the short rains are believed to be largely unreliable. In the largest analysis of weather data, released in August this year, studies confirm this trend based on historical weather data. A separate study confirms the growing strength of the short rains but calls it insignificant. "The long-term trend analysis shows a declining trend during the long rain (MAM) in the eastern parts of Ethiopia and Kenya and large parts of Tanzania," says the study by Solomon Gebrechorkos of the United Nations University Institute for Integrated Management of Material Fluxes and Resources in Dresden, Germany. Gebrechorkos and his co-authors analysed data between 1981 to 2016 and found that while the short rains had increased in intensity, the long rains have been reducing. Their results were published by Nature journal in August. "A non-significant increasing trend in large parts of the region is observed during the short rain season," they said. The Kenya meteorological department says this season, the short rains will be heavy, and could surpass this year's March-May rains in intensity. In the latest update for this week, Met said the rains will continue in the same intensity across the country. "Rainfall is likely to continue over several parts of the country," Met director Stella Aura said. Aura warned residents in landslide-prone areas to be on the high alert and to move to safe grounds. According to the seven-day forecast, areas likely to be pounded by heavy rains include Marsabit, Mandera, Wajir, Garissa, Isiolo, Nairobi, Nyandarua, Laikipia, Nyeri, Kirinyaga, Murang'a, Kiambu, Meru, Embu, Tharaka Nithi, Turkana, West Pokot and Samburu Counties. Others are Kitui, Makueni, Machakos, Kajiado, Taita Taveta as well the coastal strip counties of Mombasa, Tana River, Kilifi, Lamu and Kwale. (edited by O. Owino)