The government has said about 200 Kenyans will be feted during tomorrow's Mashujaa celebrations. Interior Principal Secretary Karanja Kibicho on Saturday said though there are no foreign heads of state who will grace the occasion, they expect at least 50,000 people who will attend the event. Kibicho told journalists that all preparations are ready ahead of the Sunday celebrations . He  said security has been tightened not only in Mombasa but across the country to allow peaceful celebration. This year's Mashujaa Day Celebrations will be held at the Mama Ngina Waterfront Park in Mombasa. He said the gates to the venue will be opened from 4 am and all people will be expected to settle by 8am  in the morning. “We expect more than 50,000 Kenyans tomorrow to attend the function. For security purposes, everyone will be properly checked before being let in. We might have long queues. We will open the gates by 4 am,” Kibicho said. He said there will be categorisation of the awards as always happens. “Let's have a little surprise tomorrow. There is nothing like subcategorising Mashujaas. There is Every year brings different people because this country is full of Mashujaas," Kibicho said. Government Spokesperson Cyrus Oguna had earlier stated that 180 Mashujaa drawn from different parts of the country, both the famous and the unsung, young and old, regardless of tribe or race would be honoured. Kibicho said those who will not be able to manage into the field will follow the ongoing event on the big screens which have been placed outside the field. President Uhuru Kenyatta who is already in Mombasa will address the occasion tomorrow. On Friday, Uhuru presided over the groundbreaking ceremony for the establishment of Dongo Kundu Special Economic Zone. The Dongo Kundu SEZ which is designed to be a multi-sectoral zone comprises of Industrial Parks, Free Trade Zones/Free Port, Dongo Kundu Port, Tourism Zone (MICE), Business Service Parks and Commercial and Residential Zone. The SEZ will be developed in three phases with the first phase is expected to be ready by 2023 and is expected to inject into the Kenyan economy Shs 400 billion in local and foreign direct investments and create over 100,000 jobs.