The World Health organisation warns that the dynamics of child sexual abuse differ from those of adult sexual abuse since they rarely disclose after the event. As attested to by mothers of daughters who have been sexually exploited and experts, the disclosure is a process often initiated following a physical complaint or a change in the behaviour of the child. “Child sexual abuse is the involvement of a child in sexual activity that he or she does not fully comprehend, is unable to give informed consent to, or for which the child is not developmentally prepared and cannot give consent, or that violates the laws or social taboos of society,” WHO explains. Experts and mothers of victims warn parents against showing little concern for their children, failing to recognise physical and emotional distress in the child and blaming the child for the problems. Speaking to the Star on the phone yesterday, Health Assistance of Kenya programme manager Pascal Oredo said the immediate family members and relatives are a critical link in tackling child abuse. “They should at first befriend the child to establish critical evidence either recorded or pictorial before reporting,” he said. Parents are urged to pay special attention to their children by observing each development. Social worker Tabitha Wairimu said, “It is also wrong to consistently belittle your children and use excessive physical discipline.” Experts and mothers also warn against demanding an extremely high level of performance in academic performance, limiting the children’s contact with others and offering conflicting and or giving unconvincing explanations for the children’s injuries. Oredo regretted that culprits rarely get convicted. “The main cause of suspects remaining at large is poverty, which is fuelling local arrangements to beat justice without regard for the survivors.” Experts and mothers also said there are gaps in the law that criminals use to escape justice. Other types of child abuse are sexual, emotional medical and neglect. Experts warn that child abuse lowers the child's developing capacities for trust, intimacy, agency and sexuality. It might also lead to mental health problems, drug abuse, low esteem and challenges in sexual adjustment during adult life. Parents of victims are advised to visit home nurses or social workers who can observe and evaluate the progress of the child and the caretaking situation. Experts say tiredness, stress, tiredness, lack of parenting skills and family support make the pressures of caring for a child overwhelming, hence providing room for child abuse. Others are unrealistic expectations, intellectual disability or mental illness, drug, alcohol or gambling problems, low self-confidence, past childhood experiences and mental health problems.