Surprise package Migori Youth continued with their giant-killing ways as they came from behind to beat Mt.Kenya United in a National Super League match at Camp Toyoyo yesterday. The win kept Migori right on track as they pursue what seemed a long-shot attempt at promotion. “I am very pleased with the mentality of my players to come from behind and get a win against such a strong side away from home. It gives me confidence that we can achieve our objectives for the same if we play with such commitment to the end,” said Migori assistant coach and former Kenyan international Kevin Oluoch. John ‘Softie’ Ndirangu had put Mt.Kenya ahead in the 22nd minute after glancing a superb header past Gideon Ogweno, off a pin-point cross by Boniface Kimani. Mt.Kenya failed to add to their lead with Ndirangu, Hussein Puzo and Clement Masikidi all missing some good chances. They would rue those squandered opportunities on the stroke of halftime when Clinton Okoth escaped the attention of their defence to side foot in the equaliser. Migori were forced to change their jerseys after the break due to colour clash—a situation that left Mt.Kenya coach Francis Mwangi questioning the match officials professionalism. “How can a team be allowed to play with different strips in the same match. It’s like we have played with two different opponents which show lack of seriousness and professionalism from the officials,” he charged. Indeed, Migori looked a different beast in the second half, putting the hosts on the back-foot for most of the time. Anthony Abwao was a constant threat as exchanged wings at will to leave his markers struggling to put him under control. On the hour mark, he made another telling contribution as his cross was met at the far post by Okoth to complete the turn around for the visitors. Migori will next take on Ushuru as they look to keep their promotion dark horses tag. In other matches, visiting Coast Stima heaped more misery on Administration Police, beating them 2-0 with goals from Basil Omondi and Joshua Oyoo. Meanwhile, Kenya Police were victors by a similar score at home to Modern Rangers at the Karuturi ground. Alvin Odoyo  and Clinton Kinanga were on target for the law enforcers.