Bomet Governor Hillary Barchok has told Senator Christopher Langat to stop inciting the public against county officials over shortage of drugs in health facilities. The senator had last weekend blamed particular health officials for the shortage of drugs. Barchok on Wednesday lashed out at the lawmaker and told him to stick to his mandate and stop attacking his staff. He said it was absurd for the senator to incite residents against public officers by accusing them of failing to ensure the availability of drugs yet he was aware of the financial challenges the counties had for three months. The governor was launching the human papilloma virus vaccines (HPV) programme. The vaccines protect against cervical, anal and vulvar cancers. Barchok accused Langat of insincerity and using the shortage to seek political mileage. "The senator should stop attacking my staff and instead come to me... inciting the public against public officers is not part of the senator's work and I think he should approach me so that I can offer him some lessons on the roles of a senator," the governor said. "I am ready to sponsor training for the senator so that he can learn his roles...He should perform his duties at the floor of the Senate and not at public rallies.” Langat had taken on some county health officials. "There is a man who does not know his roles ... who seems not to understand his roles. That is why we have a shortage of drugs in our health facilities," the senator told residents at Sigor in Chepalungu. The governor, who also commissioned the distribution of Sh63 million drugs to 150 health facilities, said the shortage was occasioned by lack of funds due to the Senate-National Assembly impasse over cash allocation to the devolved units. "It is in the public knowledge that the shortage of drugs was as a result of differences between the Senate and the National Assembly over budget,” he said. The governor promised to always defend his officers if they are right. “The senator should attack me instead of my officers...I am ready to break ranks with him if that is what he wants,” he said. 