A woman's husband ejected her from their home for giving birth to an intersex child with "weird" genitalia, calling her cursed. She was addressing a meeting on Thursday of intersex people, supporters and lawmakers to support an intersex bill in the Senate and educate lawmakers. The group called on senators to fast-track the bill that would officially recognise the group as a third sex in Kenya. It is sponsored by Nominated Senator Isaac Mwaura and is an amendment to Section 9 of the Registration of  Persons Act 2012. They recounted their ordeals of dealing with stigma and high medical costs in raising intersex children. It is estimated that Kenya has more than 700,000 intersex persons. Another intersex person, Sharon Ngeru, 23, at first glance appears to be a woman with breasts. But she has a deep male voice and a beard. She was subjected to four surgeries. "My parents took me through four surgeries to correct my weird genitalia so that they could bring me up as a woman. This became problematic as I now feel the male hormone is dominant yet they cut out the male genitals," Ngeru said. "I feel I'm a man, but I don't know what genitalia I have as I do not have the ovaries or even the womb," Ngeru said "But I still have a scrotum," she said. His/her ID indicates her as female. Besides adding a third sex in the law, the bill allows changing gender preference on the national ID of those who may have been born with characteristics of one sex — but later in life their physical attributes change. If adopted, intersex persons will have to surrender their previous national identification documents, including IDs, to get new ones. Suba North MP Millie Odhiambo, who also promotes the bill, told the gathering at a Nairobi hotel that some of her colleagues had dismissed their efforts as only legislating for a minority and for 'Western' things. "Even if it is only one person whose rights are being violated, we must legislate to protect the rights of that person," she said. Most lawmakers who attended the meeting said the didn't know much about intersex issues. They said they often dismissed them as a homosexual group trying to seek legal recognition through the backdoor. Nakuru Senator Susan Kihika apologised to the group and the Kenya National Human Rights Commission for dismissing their concerns. Kiambu's Jude Njomo said when invited by KNCHR commissioner Jedidah Waruhiu to the meeting, he was reluctant, thinking that it was convened by Western-sponsored groups seeking to legalise abortion or LGBTQ . "I'm so sorry I have been indifferent to this cause because I did not know what it was all about. I will not just support the bill but also be its champion because people do not decide to be intersex, they are born that way," he said. Mombasa Senator Mohamed Faki said he first knew about intersex during the August census when he saw the third sex marker on the enumeration forms. Kathiani's Robert Mbui also admitted "numerous ignorances on issues around intersex". He said, "This  emotional sensitisation meeting has made it clear for me and secured my unflinching support." The lawmakers emphasised the need for sustained public discussion on intersex issues to increase public awareness and win their support for the group. "This is not their making. It is just like someone can be born with a physical disability and we embrace and support them," Nairobi Woman Representative Esther Passaris said. Edited by R.Wamochie