ODM leader Raila Odinga has hit out at Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa for perverting the course of justice. Speaking at the funeral of Ngumbao Jola on Saturday, Raila said it was wrong for the main suspects Jumwa to be released on bail before the case was concluded. Malindi MP and her aide Geoffrey Okuto on October 17  were freed on Sh500, 000 bail over the alleged violence that broke out at Ganda ward that claimed the life of Gumbao Jola. "Wale waliomuua Jola wanapelekwa mahakamani,wanatisha mahakama,kisha wanaachiliwa  huru uchunguzi unapoendelea.Hii inaonyesha mahakama iko na nuksi inafaa kuchunguzwa,"Raila said. Which translates to(The murder suspects were released on bail to allow 21 days of investigations.That is wrong it shows the judicial system has flaws and it needs to be investigated.) Raila said murder suspects should not be released on bail,they should remain in custody as investigations are carried out. "Wakishatoka wanarudi hapa kujigamba maana wametishia mahakama.Kitambo mhukumiwa wa mauaji hangewachiliwa na bail.(They were released and they came out here to beat their chests)."he said. In a tweet on Saturday, AU envoy pledged to pursue justice for Ngumbao. "We will pursue justice for Ngumbao who was killed in electoral violence. May his soul Rest In Eternal Peace, "Read part of his tweet. He hyped for BBI support saying it would mitigate electoral violence in the country. "Uhuru and I decided that it was time to end the hostilities. We don't want to see another Kenyan losing his life over elections," he said. "You have always demonstrated faith in ODM and I have to thank you. The only way we can progress is by joining hands to support BBI," he added. The Building Bridges Initiative taskforce on Wednesday completed filing its report after collecting views of Kenyans across the country. The task force held its last formal sitting on Wednesday, at the Task-force secretariat where they finalised the report and communicated to the President's office. "The joint Secretaries have officially communicated to the office of the President that the Building Bridges Initiative report is ready for handing over to the President," part of joint task force statement signed by BBI joint secretaries Paul Mwangi and Martin Kimani read. The task force said that they have already received word that the handover will be scheduled at the first available opportunity.