IT would appear that ‘acting Kiambu Governor’ James Nyoro has completely taken charge of the affairs of the county and would want all and sundry to know it. On many occasions during the launch of the Nairobi-Suswa railway line on Wednesday, the deputy governor was captured on camera standing next to President Uhuru Kenyatta. He did not waste any single opportunity to be close to the head of state in what appeared to be a deliberate move to stamp his presence. Unfortunately, his embattled boss, Ferdinand Waititu, was, in some instances, seen standing some metres away from the president, perhaps depicting the fast-changing fortunes against him. Reality is so harsh, you may conclude. A senior Agriculture ministry official might soon find himself in the eye of a storm amid claims he is putting up a palatial hotel. The official has established what might soon become one of the most luxurious hotels in the Nyanza region. There have been claims the officer was once roiled in a graft scandal involving the disappearance of some huge cash. While the officer was never prosecuted, it has been alleged he was among the masterminds of the grand scheme. The officer usually visits the project under the cover of darkness to deflect attention from neighbours. No wonder Kenya is home to a few millionaires and millions of strugglers. A flamboyant MP from Western Kenya has had tongues wagging for his peculiar sense of fashion. The lawmaker has baffled members and friends following his decision to bleach his face, ostensibly, to look cool. Members were overheard slamming the MP for trying too hard to maintain a youthful, dashing look at the expense of his health, given he is edging closer to the wrong end of 50. But the legislator, famous for breaking hearts, is stopping at nothing to woo the young and lonely. IT appears some overzealous state officials are hellbent on skewing a lucrative tender their way to benefit their associates. Corridors overheard two senior-most officers in the critical docket bragging about the lengths to which they will push for the tender regardless of the laws governing procurement. Whether the officers will violate, overlook, usurp or bypass the laws by hook or crook to sway the tender their way to the chagrin of the legitimate bidders, is a matter Corridors will be keen to keep an eye on.