Moi University has expelled five student leaders who allegedly organised last week’s violent protests that led to indefinite closure of the institution. Vice chancellor Isaac Kosgey confirmed the students had been banned from the institution due to gross misconduct. Kosgey wrote to the students on October 11 stating that they would not be allowed to set foot in the institution. Those expelled are officials of Moi University Students organisation (MUSO). They are chairman Timothy Kemboi, secretary general  Ian Rusei, finance director  Hezbon Ondari, co-curricular coordinator Ronny Alex Kimathi and Emmanuel Sahrabhai (special needs coordinator). "It has come to the attention of this office that on 11th October 2019 you with other students participated in the illegal demonstration by planning, leading and later destroying university property at the main campus,” the VC’s letter said. Kosgey said the students' conduct was unacceptable and lacked the expected decorum of a student while at university. “This office views your action to be detrimental to the value we hold as a university and your conduct has brought shame to Moi University. As a result of this and by the powers conferred to me by statute XXX5 (k) of the Moi university statutes ( 2013), I do hereby expel you from the university with immediate effect.” The student leaders however said they were shocked by the decision and would move to court to seek redress. "We were entirely within our rights and as students' representatives we couldn't sit back and watch the institution unilaterally make decisions that affect our well being in school. Let’s meet in court," Rusei said. Last Friday, students went on the rampage against what they termed as poor management of the university by Kosgey and his team. They protested against increase in fees for supplementary exams from Sh400 to Sh1,000.They also rejected new rules banning them from cooking in their hostels. A police officer and three university staff were injured during the riots that led to destruction of property at the main campus. Deputy vice chancellor Nathan Kimengi issued a notice on Friday directing students to vacate the main campus. Kosgey said the university council would meet this week to announce the way forward including dates when the college would be re-opened.