A human rights group has threatened to sue the Baringo county government because askaris assaulted a polio survivor during Majujaa Day celebrations. The Baringo Human Rights Consortium (BHRC) based in Eldama-Ravine has issued a 30-day statutory notice to address the problems of 58-year old polio survivor John Ng’etich. Photos showed Ngetich beaten by county askaris while attempting to seeking to speak at Eldama-Ravine Stadium on October 20. “While I was still negotiating with the master of ceremony to grant me the opportunity to talk on behalf of PWDs, some three merciless county askaris suddenly emerged from the crowd and smacked me down on the mud,” Ng’etich said. Present at the event were Governor Stanley Kiptis, Tiaty MP William Kamket and county commissioner Henry Wafula. After a time, Kiptis ordered askaris to stop beating and chasing away the man. He then offered Ng'etich a chance to address the crowd. "But I couldn't because I no longer had the courage to speak after the shameful act," he said. The agitated man then collected his newspapers, boarded a boda boda and went back to his business, cursing the county government for marking the day without recognizing PWDs. In a letter dated  October 24, BHRC Director Dr Samson Tim issued said the group would sue Kiptis and his administration for "ordering" askaris to assault the physically challenged man and deny him his right of speech. “Take note that upon expiry of the stated period without any positive response, apology or action taken against the askaris or compensation of our client for the damages caused, we shall hand over the matter to our legal experts to institute legal proceedings,” Tim said. He accused the county government of being unapologetic after violating Ng'etich's rights. “Apart from causing him bodily harm, the county askaris also spoiled the reputation and self-esteem of our client by embarrassing him in public, which [damage] might take too long to rebuild,” he said. “Apart from understanding him as a person of sound mind and good character, Ng’etich is also a member of the human rights network representing people with disabilities,m" the letter read. Tim criticised the governor for remaining silent and failing to take any apparent steps to punish the individual county askaris who assaulted him. Through the notice, Ng'etech also seeks compensation for mistreatment and tainting of his image by right-thinking members of the public. After the beating, Ng'etich told the Star," Given the opportunity, I wanted to remind the government that it has forgotten to remit the funds for the disabled people for a long time." “I felt so embarrassed,” he said he said of the public pummelling. Ng'etich is jobless, only selling newspapers in Eldama-Ravine town and serving as a lobbyist for people with disabilities. “I wish someone would have mercy and offer me a job or purchase a cow or a plot to built myself a house to avoid paying rent," Ng’etich told the media. He urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to have mercy on people with disabilities and build his legacy on recognising them and bettering their lives. In September 2017, the PWDs in Baringo moved sued to challenge the absence of a single nominee to the county executive and the assembly, saying they were conspicuously neglected. The marginalised group lost the case because it lacked funds to finance the petition. (Edited by V. Graham)