Many Wajir residents are in dire need of food, medicines and other household items following heavy rains. Governor Mohamed Abdi on Sunday appealed to the national government, well-wishers and development partners to support vulnerable households. He wants them cushioned from the untold suffering brought about by flash floods. Downpours have wreaked havoc in the county and many residents have lost their livestock. Pastoralism is the economic mainstay of the region and provides livelihoods to many families. Abdi said some areas have received above-average rainfall, taking a heavy toll of residents. He spoke in Wajir Stadium during Mashujaa Day celebrations. According to a rapid assessment report by the National Drought Management Authority dated October 12, four people have died. At least 50,000 have been left reeling in agony. More than 6,000 animals have also died in the past three weeks. The worst-hit areas include Wajir North, Eldas, Giriftu, Sarman, Duntow, Dambas, Gunana, Qarsa and Khorof Harar. The report adds that movement between settlements has been severely disrupted. Some households go without food because they cannot reach trading centres. In Buna, the bridge that connects the area to other parts of the county has been swept away, leaving the residents marooned and in dire need of assistance. “As it has always been, the rains come in equal measure with blessings for lives and livelihoods and destruction of critical infrastructure, especially in areas where the infrastructure is not climate-proof. Roads, schools, health facilities and water systems have been severely damaged,” Abdi said. "My government will do everything within its reach to open up roads that have been cut off and made impassable by the stormwater, restore critical infrastructure, and provide emergency medical supplies as a stop-gap measure. However, as a county, we can only do much and it is for this reason that we appeal for assistance because together we can manage [the situation]." Abdi urged the team of veterinary officers that are already on the ground to vaccinate animals against  Rift Valley Fever and other waterborne diseases to prevent further deaths. "I want to encourage herders to move with their families and livestock to higher grounds to prevent further losses of lives and animals. This information should be passed using all channels, including FM stations,” he said. County commissioner Lyford Kibaara said the national government will continue working closely with the county and other agencies to stop loss of human and animal lives and destruction of property. He said proper plans have been put in place to have KCSE and KCPE candidates whose schools have been affected transferred to safe schools to sit the exams without interference. (Edited by F'Orieny)