A Nairobi MCA wants answers from the Governor Mike Sonko-led city government on the demotions, suspensions and sackings of staff since September 2017. Benson Mwangi, the Mowlem Ward representative, says that the action against the staff is based on mere allegations. "The last two years of operations within the county executive have been defined by instability characterised by constant reshuffles, suspensions, sackings and fallings-out. They are usually based on mere allegations and without investigations, warnings or due disciplinary process,” Mwangi said. He said the aftermaths have been shutdowns of critical services like planning approvals,  processing of permits, revenue collection and health service delivery. "This Assembly can longer wait as residents and professional associations complain of hampered service delivery and increasing business running costs arising from inertia and laxity on the part of the county government in providing the critical services,” Mwangi said. He wants a statement from the chairperson of the Sector Committee on Labour and Social Welfare. The statement should include the number of staff demoted, suspended or sacked per department since September 2017 and the outcome of investigations done if any. The response should be inclusive of a report on positions currently being held in an acting capacity and the qualifications of those holding the positions. "This state of affairs risks plunging the county into irreparable socio-political and economic damage that may spill into the national economy given the critical nature of Nairobi county,” Mwangi said. He expects a response next week when the assembly resumes from recess. Sixteen county officers, among the Finance executive Charles Kerich and Health executive Mohammed Dagane, were suspended last month. Agriculture executive Pauline Kahiga is the acting Finance executive while her  Environment counterpart Vesca Kangogo is at the Health docket in an acting capacity. There have been no substantive County Secretary and County Attorney since September last year. Leboo Morintat is the acting County Secretary while Christine Ireri is the acting the County Attorney. Governor Sonko has publicly said he will not hesitate to reshuffle or suspend anyone as long as doing so improves service delivery. He says he has a constitutional right to hire, fire, suspend or redeploy any member of the Cabinet without reference to anyone. The county had in August urged him to confirm the officers serving in an acting capacity. In the same month, Sonko suspended Planning chief officer Justus Kathenge for allegedly violating Physical Planning Act and zoning regulations. The Sectoral Committee on Lands and Urban Planning was recently told that no approvals have been done since the officer's suspension. Minority leader Elias Otieno, who chairs the Committee on Implementation, said some of the acting officers have exceeded the acting period of six months as per the requirement of the Public Service Commission's Human Resource Policies and Procedures Manual 2016. Last May, the governor sent home 23 chief officers through an executive order. The Star learned that officers' one-year contract had expired the previous month. Sonko had complained that some of the chief officers were pursuing political interests instead of serving Nairobi residents. In June, the County Public Service Board announced vacant the positions of 10 chief officers, county secretary and the director of Procurement. Only eight of 19 chief officers had their contracts renewed after their expirely in April. Currently, there are acting chief officers for Environment, Trade, Planning and Urban Renewal and Transport.     