Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education exams began on Tuesday with foreign language oral tests in French, German and Arabic. The exams have commenced as the government intensifies efforts to close out possible collusion between security officials and exam officers. On Thursday, candidates will take their Home Science practical exam and Kenyan Sign Language. On Tuesday next week, KCPE candidates will begin the final test to mark the eight-year journey they started in pursuit of primary education. Already, the Kenya National Examination Council has confirmed all examination materials required for the examination are in the safety containers. A team of 70,000 security officers will be deployed in different parts of the country to safeguard the national primary and secondary exams. However, sources from the examination council pointed to the ongoing rains and floods in different parts of the country as a possible threat to smooth operation. The Star has learnt that four police helicopters will be on standby to help with the evacuation of learners in affected centres. The examination council will also bank on the helicopters to ferry exam materials in areas that will be deemed impassable. "We have put measures to ensure no examination will be disrupted by the ongoing rains. The council is working with the Meteorological department and we are prepared for adversity in some areas," Knec chief executive officer Mercy Gathigia Karogo told the Star in a phone interview on Tuesday. The weatherman's report indicates that heavy rains will continue in parts of Northern Kenya, the highlands East and West of the Rift Valley, the Southeast lowlands, Northwest and the Coast. To provide a proper environment for the exams, learners in lower primary schools classes will be required to close school by the end of this week. On Monday, schools will conduct the rehearsals for the examinations slotted for October 29 to 31. The main KCSE examinations will start on November 4 and end on November 27. This year, 1,088,987 learners will sit the KCPE exam while 689,746 will sit KCSE exam. School heads will be required to file daily progress reports. The Star has learnt that the government also plans to have more officers in areas mapped as insecure. Edited by R.Wamochie