Seven pancake tortoises have been discovered at the Lewa Wildlife Conservancy. The pancake tortoise is currently listed as Critically Endangered (CR) by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN). Scientists from Lewa and the National Museum of Kenya participated in a joint effort to design an appropriate conservation strategy for the pancake tortoise and other herpetofauna (reptiles and amphibians) in the conservancy. The discovery extends the distribution range of the species in Kenya. Past studies have shown that the distribution of tortoises in Kenya lies within the arid and semi-arid corridor – from Marsabit to Kitui. “Due to specialised habitat requirements, the distribution of pancake tortoises is restricted and patchy.  The tortoise population was recorded from four out of 14 potential sites identified during the assessment. The findings also documented the highest altitude occurrence (1,647 mean sea level) for pancake tortoises in Kenya to date,” a press release from the tourist attraction conservancy read. Lewa Wildlife Conservancy head of conservation and wildlife Geoffrey Chege said there is a need to design a long-term conservation strategy for pancake tortoises and other herpetofauna in Lewa. “Even though this discovery is significant due to the protection status of Lewa Wildlife Conservancy, this population is rather isolated and there is a need for further studies to determine its viability,” Chege said. The pancake tortoise, whose scientific name is Malacochersus tornieri, is among the six land tortoises mostly found in East Africa. Unlike the typical tortoises, the pancake tortoise is unique in its morphology. It is small in size, flattened dorsoventrally and a flexible soft-shelled that allows them to live in narrow rock crevices. THREATS Live animal collection for international pet trade is the biggest threat to the tortoise. Habitat degradation from rock destruction is also a major threat. Other threats include deforestation and cultivation. It is considered that geology, vegetation, altitude, and climate are the main factors that limit the distribution of pancake tortoises. For instance, more than 80 per cent of Kenyan records are below 1,000m mean sea level. The occurrence is highly influenced by the availability of suitable micro-habitats. Generally, they inhabit rock crevices of any orientation from horizontal to vertical. Openings of choice tend to narrow backward from the entrance. Gently sloping hillsides are more suitable than steeper areas and cliffs. Therefore, only a small proportion of the general habitat is normally inhabited by tortoises. A higher conservation measure for the pancake tortoise was recently achieved when the 18th Conference of Parties of CITES adopted a proposal for its listing in Appendix I. International trade in the tortoise is now prohibited except under exceptional circumstances, for example, research purposes. Elsewhere, populations have also been recorded in Tanzania and Zambia.  