ODM leader Raila Odinga has joined Kenyans in condoling the victims of the Kericho-Kisumu road accident that occurred early Friday morning. Thirteen people were killed and scores of others injured in the grisly road accident near Awasi along the Kisumu-Kericho Highway. "I pass sincere condolences to the families of those who lost their lives and the injured in the Awasi accident. We wish quick recovery to the injured," Raila said in a statement. Raila stated that the accident is a continuation of the return to madness, particularly by long distance drivers. "This madness is certainly aided by corruption on the roads where reckless drivers know they can always bribe traffic officers and continue endangering lives," he said. He added that motorists are refusing to observe basic driving rules on overtaking and speed limits and that, "No driver has the patience to wait for his or her turn and all want to reach their destinations earlier than possible." Raila also stated that reckless driving on the roads must be prevented and severely punished before it claims more lives. "I call upon relevant government agencies responsible for safety on our roads to get back to work and arrest the situation. Kenyans want to see drivers and security officers being held responsible and made to pay for the deaths on the roads," he said. The accident involved an Eldoret Express heading to Nairobi while the trailer was going to Kisumu. According to the Kenya Red Cross said 35 casualties with multiple injuries have been evacuated to Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Teaching and Referral Hospital (JOOTRH), Awasi Mission Hospital and Hope Medical Hospital. Fourteen passengers are admitted at the JOOTRH. Road accidents have claimed more lives this year compared to 2018. According to the latest survey report by the National Transport and Safety Authority (NTSA) dated September 2, 2,326 people have lost their lives compared to 2,021 who died by the same date in 2018. Pedestrians remain the most vulnerable, with 969 having lost their lives. A total of 2,499 people have lost their lives on the road compared to 2,153 who died by September 16, 2019. This is according to the latest survey by the Authority. Pedestrians still lead the pack with 969 having lost their lives.