Deputy President William Ruto on Wednesday visited Ngong Forest Primary school to supervise the Kenya Certificate of Primary Education exercise as it entered day 2. Day Two of the KCPE saw pupils sit for Science, Kiswahili in the morning and Insha in the afternoon. Ruto noted all was well as far as the examinations were concerned, adding that no examination centre had reported lack of delivery of exam papers. The DP  noted that the government has put in place proper contingencies to ensure students sitting the KCPE across the country continue with the examinations uninterrupted He said helicopters are being used in areas that roads have been cut off by floods due to heavy rains pounding the country. “We have put in place measures to ensure examinations are carried out uninterrupted. In cases, where we have bridges washed away by floods or roads destroyed, we have helicopters on standby,” Ruto said.  The Deputy President assured the students that the Government was committed to improving schools infrastructure in line with its 100 per cent primary to secondary school transition policy. “We have made significant strides to improve schools infrastructure including expansion of some institutions so as to make the 100 percent primary to secondary schools successful,” he said. He thanked the management of the Ngong Forest Primary School for hosting some students of Precious Talent school that collapsed last month, killing seven children. The Deputy President who was flanked by Education Principal Secretary Kipsang Belio among other senior Ministry of Education officials also sent his good luck message to the 2019 KCPE candidates. “This is the time to demonstrate the knowledge that you have gained while in school for the last eight years. We are looking forward to wonderful results,”Ruto said. On his part, Kipsang said there was smooth progress of exams. He said the ministry is in constant touch with managers, supervisors, sub-county and assistant county directors and security officers with a view to ensuring smooth running of the examinations.