The Kenya Karate Federation will finally hold the much-awaited national elections in June next year. The polls were expected to be held at the middle of this year but were halted by the courts in a culmination of leadership wrangles at the governing body. There were few things to be adjusted and chief instructor Sensei Joshua Oude said the new office should be in place before the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games scheduled for between July 24 and August 9. Regions or counties are to be incorporated into the federation. Associations like Japan Karate Association (JKA) are to be included as well and the Strathmore University trainer observed that sanity will be restored once the elections are over. He said: "The elections were expected to be held in June this year but a court ruling halted the process. There was a problem with the leadership. Some regions went to court to stop it so that some conditions could be met but I think everything is set now. Its a matter of getting the chairman and office bearers on board before we get a team to represent the country in Tokyo." "The association should be involved in the selection of Karatekas for the Olympics team. I am also optimistic that every association will be given a chance to represent the national body if we want to grow," added the former Kenyatta University trainer, whose 17 years association with the institution remains unmatched. All counties are supposed to register with the sports council before the national elections. Clubs have to register with the county. The regional office should comprise of the chairman, secretary, technical director and a coach. While making an assessment of the sport in Kenya, Oude said: "You cannot say Karate in Kenya is growing compared to other countries. I see no improvement from the past years. Most of the clubs are institution-based. Others that had made a name for themselves like the Armed forces and  Kenya Breweries have become extinct. I hope people will elect leaders who will help bring the standards back."