After claiming her first world 3000m steeplechase gold medal, Beatrice Chepkoech will shift gears to next year’s Olympics in Tokyo Japan. Chepkoech, the world record holder, was in a class of her own in the finals held on Monday night at the Khalifa International Stadium Doha Qatar where she registered the championships record of 8:57.84. The win also erased the memory of the 2017 Championships, where she missed a water jump hence was forced to backtrack to clear it. Chepkoech showed her intentions of mining the gold as she broke away from the pack immediately after the gun went off and maintained the rhythm to the line. Her compatriot and 2015 champion Hyvin Kiyeng, who seemed to be struggling with an injury, finished eighth while Commonwealth silver medalist Celliphine Chespol withdrew midway. Defending champion Emma Coburn of the United States took silver in 9:02.35 ahead of Germany’s Gesa Krause, who settled for a bronze in 9:03.30. Chepkoech, whose record of 8:44.32 remains unchallenged, opened up on her long wait for the medal after missing out in 2017 finals and the preceding Olympics held in Rio de Janeiro Brazil, where she finished fourth. She revealed that her strategy paid off and plans to rule again in Japan. “I decided to kick off early as I knew everyone was in good shape and I was also pursuing the record. From the start, I knew the rest would burn out after a kilometre. I am happy I have finally won after faltering in Rio and London. I now shift my focus on the Tokyo Olympics, where I will also be contesting for gold.” In the meantime, 2013 800m champion Eunice Sum expressed satisfaction with her fifth-place finish in the race won by Halimah Nakaayi of Uganda. Raevyn Rodgers and Ajee Wilson both from the United States of America finished second and third respectively. “ My target was to be in the final and I am happy I achieved this. I am yet to regain my form after being on the sideline for quite some time. We can’t take it away from the Ugandan as Nakaayi ran a good race.” 