Raila Odinga's ODM and ANC boss Musalia Mudavadi have alleged a complex plan to rig the November 7 Kibra by-election. Mudavadi, who accompanied the party's candidate Eliud Owalo in a vote hunting mission in Kibra's Laini Sab, said the party was aware of ongoing voter bribery at Deputy President William Ruto's official residence to tilt the forthcoming by-elections in favour of Jubilee candidate McDonald Mariga. ODM legislators who were also in the constituency to drum up support for their candidate Imran Okoth claimed Ruto was using his official residence to compromise voters. Ruaraka MP TJ Kajwang’ said the Deputy President was using his official residence as a “political brothel” to issue handouts to residents of Kibra. “We are going to organize people to match to his Karen residence and ask for the money because it is our cash that he is giving away like that,” said Kajwang’. Also echoing his sentiments were MPs George Aladwa (Makadara), Simba Arati (Dagoreti North), Junet Mohammed (Suna East), Gladys Wanga (Homa Bay Woman Rep) and Migori Senator Ochilo Ayacko. The Jubilee team was in Bukhungu area campaigning for Mariga. Mudavadi called on IEBC to come out strongly and pronounce itself on the issue of voter bribery allegedly happening at DP's residence. The former presidential candidate and ANC candidate Eliud Owalo said they would not accept anything short of free, fair and transparent polls. The leaders called on the electoral commission to redeem itself using the mini-poll. "IEBC has a tainted image from the 2017 elections. IEBC should wake up. How come the Deputy President has forgotten that Karen residence is a state resource and should not be used to campaign?" said Mudavadi. The ANC boss claimed Ruto has transferred Mariga's campaign headquarters from Kibera to a state property, his Karen residence. "Why is IEBC silent when money is being dished in Karen residence? Ruto should know the house is built with public resources. We want Kibra polls to be free and fair. We don't want bribery," he added. Mudavadi called on residents to be vigilant on the day of election to ensure no vote is stolen. Owalo noted the Kibra polls provides a litmus test for the poll body. "IEBC has a chance to redeem its image through the Kibra by-election. We want a free and fair election," said Owalo. The leaders also appealed to employers to allow Kibra residents ample time to  exercise their civic duty on November 7. ANC nominated MP Godffrey Osotsi, who was campaigning for Okoth, said Ruto’s residence had been turned into a campaign venue at night. “People are ferried at night to Karen to go and get handouts,” he claimed. Wanga asked residents to protect Imran’s vote on November 7 since they had information of a plot to rig him out. “The have come with the money of Kenyans to Kibra, which they are using to bribe voters. Take the money but when the time comes, vote for the right person,” she said. Junet said the electoral body should make public the names of all presiding officers and the clerks. “We want to know all these people because we have information that they want to pick people from far away to oversee the election and rig,” he claimed.