A Senate committee has recommended the formation of a commission of inquiry to probe the Kenya Tea Development Agency and other issues affecting tea farming. In a damning report set for debate today, the committee that inquired into the challenges facing the sector blames KTDA for the many problems afflicting tea farmers. The report accuses the agency of lacking transparency and accountability and engaging in other projects other than tea to the detriment of farmers It recommends President Uhuru Kenyatta should form a commission to advice on possibility of carrying out a forensic audit on the operations of the agency. The panel found that KTDA is not transparent in arriving at farmers' earnings and cost of farm inputs. The nine-member committee wants the commission to inquire into alleged misappropriation of farmers’ income through dubious investments by the agency that do not earn farmers any profit. “There is lack of transparency in factory operations and the managing agent, KTDA. There is need to review the contract agreements between smallholder tea factories and KTDA in tandem with current realities,” the report reads. KTDA was established to offer management services to individual tea factory companies. However, stakeholders have raised concerns over various aspects of management including 2.5 per cent cess, which has been viewed as too high. Further, the report blames too many taxes, little value addition of the finished products, high operation costs and too many middlemen in the tea production chain. According to the report filed by the committee chaired by Kericho Senator Aaron Cheruiyot, there are over 42 taxes from the leaf to the cup, a scenario it says has ballooned the cost of production. “There is need to review taxation regime on tea so as to harmonize levies charged by the county and national government to eliminate double taxation,” the report says. Tea farmers complain about a myriad of challenges including low prices, poor extension services, limited marketing and poor access to credit. Some farmers have opted to uproot their tea bushes protesting low returns. The report says the high of cost farm inputs, low level of technology used by the smallholder farmers and low earnings from the produce are hitting the sector. The committee further cites gaps in the policy and legal frameworks in the regulation of tea production in the country as well as marketing of the finished products. It faults the government for failing to complete and operationalise a tea policy to govern the sector, five years after its drafting started. “There is a need to have a strong policy, institutional and regulatory framework to govern the tea industry since it is a major foreign exchange earner,” the report says. Senators Christopher Langat (Bomet), Samson Cherargei (Nandi), Sam Ongeri (Kisii), Njeru Ndwiga (Embu), Mercy Chebeni (nominated), Irungu Kangata (Murang’a), Cleophas Malala (Kakamega) and George Khaniri (Vihiga) were members of the adhoc committee. The panel recommends the extension of the fertilizer subsidy programme to smallholder tea farmers, review of taxes on packaging materials and expresses the need to train farmers on new technologies and extension services. “The committee should inquire into ways of modernizing operations at the teas auction to enable the government to earn maximum returns from the tea industry by ensuring all teas produced in Kenya are accounted for by employing a single platform of sale,” the committee recommends. The senators propose that tea factories should embrace energy saving technologies to reduce the cost of operation.