Nairobi Stima dropped to third place in the National Super League log after battling to a barren draw against Mount Kenya United in the round of matches. The Jonathan Jackson Foundation-sponsored Nairobi City Stars moved to the top of the log after a 6-0 thumping of hapless Northern Wanderers on Saturday. City Stars, coached by Sanjin Alagic, have 16 points—one better than second placed Bidco while early pace setters Nairobi Stima are third with 14 points. Alagic said he is determined to lead City Stars back to the top tier. Nine sides have since registered more than ten points, while Northern Wanderers are the only side yet to earn a point in six matches. APS Bomet and St Joseph Youth have gained a point each while Modern Coast and Kenya Police have two points apiece. At the same time, despite financial challenges, Shabana continued to record impressive results at home. On Sunday, the Kisii-based side beat a stubborn 10 man-Kibera Black Stars 1-0 at Gusii stadium to maintain their 100 percent record at home. Midfielder Peter Ogechi scored the lone goal. Shabana chairman Jared Nivaton attended the game and thanked Governor James Ongwae for allowing the club to use the stadium for free. The move by the governor has lifted a huge burden off our shoulders because, at the moment, we don’t have a sponsor,” said Nivaton. Shabana coach Gilbert Selebwa said the team has not settled since they did not have a proper season.  “We want to ensure we pick maximum points at home. However, I’m worried about my striking force because we wasted several clear cut scoring chances,” said Selebwa. Shabana are 7th on the log with 12 points. Kibera Black Stars' coach Leonard Saleh rued the first-half red card handed to Sylvester Ochieng. “The red card changed the game completely and it was not deserved. I want to appeal to referees to be fair. Sometimes football is like that! Our focus is on the next game against Vihiga Bullets," he said. Saleh said his target is to ensure the team finishes top 10. “We don’t want to struggle against relegation like last season,” said the veteran coach.