The Anglican Church of Keny wants the national government to stop overburdening Kenyans with debt and taxes. Archbishop Jackson Sapit said on Sunday that the country would head in the wrong direction and the lives of wananchi become miserable if more taxes were levied. He spoke during a farewell ceremony for the retiring Southern Nyanza ACK Bishop James Ochiel in Homa Bay Town. “Excessive taxation makes the business environment unfavourable, hence, there's low economic growth. Kenyans will become poorer than they are today,” Sapit said. He said time had come for the national government to consider the wellbeing of its citizens first. Sapit expressed worry that most of the funds  Kenya borrows from the foreign lenders are not utilised effectively to improve the livelihoods of residents. “The greater percentage of funds that the Kenyan government borrows ends in corruption instead of undertaking development projects in the country,” Sapit said. The cleric said corruption leads to the accumulation of national resources in the hands of a few individuals in power. He urged the government to prioritise wananchi's interests,  adding that funds borrowed in moderation should be spent on development projects. “Kenyans need roads, drugs in hospitals and other development projects. But we cannot achieve this if we lose public funds through corruption,” Sapit said. The archbishop said the church will not tire of admonishing the government for its wrongdoings. Homa Bay Senator Moses Kajwang’ said the government had failed to demonstrate its ability to utilise borrowed funds prudently. “Kenya has a debt of Sh5.5 trillion but we’ve opened the door for the Treasury to borrow another Sh3.5 trillion. The time has come for Senators to discourage the excessive borrowing that results in huge debts,” Kajwang’ said. The senator promised to present a motion on Tuesday in Parliament to ensure that funds are borrowed with the approval of both the Senate and the National Assembly. “Debts affect the whole country, hence both the Senate and the National Assembly should approve a debt before the government borrows. I will table the motion. (Edited by V. Graham)