Kiambu MCAs have distanced themselves from a campaign to collect signatures to impeach Governor Ferdinand Waititu. Majority leader Gideon Gachara yesterday explained that MCAs are not asking residents to append their signatures in the exercise which was rolled out on Wednesday. The campaign is conducted by a lobby group calling itself Okoa Kiambu. MCAs will play their role when or if a petition is presented to the assembly backed by signatures, Gachara said. "We do not have a role here to play. We are not behind it. Our role will come when this group brings their petition to us at the assembly," he said. "The petition cannot be discussed if it does not have signatures of members of the public to support it." On Thursday, Gachara welcomed the Okoa Kiambu lobby group in his Ndeiya ward to collect signatures. Those present included Okoa Kiambu director Carol Wanjiku, Bunge la Mwananchi speaker Eric Mutura and lobbyist Wanja wa Gichungumwa. Wanjiku said different lobby groups in the county have come together to  collect the signatures. She said the drive aims to collect 200,000 signatures from 60 wards of the county which has over 1.2 million registered voters. They will forward the signatures to the assembly to support Waititu's impeachment. Gichungumwa said residents want Waititu impeached since he cannot exercise executive powers by order of the court over corruption cases. Waititu, his wife Susan Wangari and eight county officials are facing corruption charges over the irregular award of tenders worth Sh588 million. Magistrate Lawrence Mugambi ordered Waititu to stay out of office during the entire time of the case. Toilet Paper Movement coordinator John Wamagata has supported the Okoa Kiambu initiative, saying Waititu has failed the integrity test. Last week, Wamagata led his group to take bloody pig head to Waititu's Delta Hotel in Nairobi, demanding his resignation. "I remind him that we gave him 14 days to resign and the days are still going. We shall seek legal action if he fails to resign," he said.