Lawmakers from the sugar-growing areas have embarked on a plan to revive the Kenya Sugar Board saying its repeal is to blame for the sector's woes. Through the Sugar Bill, 2019, sponsored by Kanduyi MP Wafula Wamunyinyi, the lawmakers are seeking to reinstate the board's independence which was lost during the repeal of the Crops Act. Their take is that the dissolution of the Kenya Sugar Board, which was turned into a directorate at the Agriculture, Fisheries, and Food Authority (AFFA), is to blame for the death of the sugar sector. The Coconut Development Authority, Tea Board of Kenya, Coffee Board of Kenya, the Horticultural Crops Development Authority as well as the Pyrethrum Board of Kenya were also converted into directorates. Also, put under AFFA was the Cotton Development Authority, the Sisal Board of Kenya; Pests Control Products Board; and the Kenya Plant Health Inspectorate Service (Kephis). Wamunyinyi said the bill if passed, would give the Kenya Sugar Board powers to regulate the sector directly instead of operating through AFFA. “We need to take extraordinary measures to steer the revival of the sugar industry. My colleagues from the sugar-growing areas agreed on the legislation,” he told the Star on Wednesday. He argued that research on sugarcane seed varieties was affected by the dissolution of the board, the same setting stage for the proliferation of illegal imports. “We had a directorate which had no idea what to do. The board had ideas as they interacted with farmers from time to time. They also approved importation of sugar,” the Kanduyi MP said. The Sugar Bill further seeks to give farmers more say in the management of sugar factories by apportioning them a 51 per cent shareholding in privatized sugar firms. The bill also seeks to have farmers –referred to as growers, have more than half representation at firms’ board of directors. The Sugar Bill, 2019, read for the first time yesterday, gives the board absolute powers to license sugar and jaggery mills. At the same time, the proposed bill posits that those who run unlicensed jaggery mills shall be liable to fines as high as Sh1 million or a five-year jail term. The Board will also control the duties, taxes and other tariffs applicable to sugar being imported into the country. The proposed law further proposes a ten-year jail term or Sh2 million fines for those found guilty of diverting sugar meant for export. The board would also oversee the signing of agreements negotiated between growers and millers, growers and outgrower institutions, and millers and out-grower institutions. “The board shall participate in the formulation of overall policies, plans, and programs of work for the development of the sugar industry,” the Bill reads. Also suggested in the proposal is the creation of a Sugar Development Fund – to consolidate monies raised from the sale of sugar to the benefit of farmers. “The board shall facilitate an equitable mechanism for the pricing of sugarcane and appropriation of proceeds from sugar by-products,” the MP said. In what givers farmers more say on the three-year term board, the Cabinet Secretary for Agriculture will appoint a chairperson elected by the board from among the groups’ representatives. Farmers will also have five other slots while millers will get one. Other slots in the proposed 11-member board would be held by Agriculture PS, Treasury PS, Council of Governors, and a board CEO. The government had listed for sale Sony, Chemelil, Nzoia, Muhoroni and Miwani sugar factories in a privatization bid to keep the entities afloat. Senators – as well as farmers, rejected the bid citing concerns the privatization is a scheme to sell the mills to already earmarked investors. In the plan, the government intends to shed off 51 per cent stake in the firms and reserve 24 per cent for farmers and employees. The other 25 per cent was to be floated in an IPO. Wamunyinyi’s bill, if approved, would see the return of the Sugar Arbitration Tribunal to deal with disputes arising between growers and millers as well as other players.