The rivalry between Kenya and Cameroon continues to play out in the boardroom with both sides in a fierce battle for the hosting rights of the Africa Volleyball Olympics Qualification tournament. The qualifiers are scheduled to run between January 6 and 12, 2020 as Kenya prepare to launch their campaign to return to the Olympic arena after a 15-year hiatus. As of yesterday, Kenya’s highest bid of US$65,000 has been countered by Cameroon’s US$70,000. Kenya had initially put in a bid of US$50,000 but Cameroon countered it with US$60,000 before increasing it to the current figure. As the bidding deadline approaches at midday today, Kenya Volleyball Federation president Waithaka Kioni has been lobbying with the Ministry of Sports on the way forward. Kenya and Cameroon have become the newest rivals in continental volleyball with the East Africans having scratched the Cameroonians four out of five times they’ve met since June this year. Cameroon only beat Kenya in the Africa Nations’ Cup finals to be crowned champions. Kenya national women’s team, also known as Malkia Striker,  won their Nations’ Cup preliminary tie, defeated Cameroon twice at the All Africa Games and at the World Cup over the weekend. Kioni averred that the Central Africans want to carry the day in as far as hosting the Olympic qualifiers is concerned, on the account of home support. “In all the three tournaments we have met, Cameroon in the recent past, Kenya have beaten them at least once in each showpiece. There are high stakes in the qualifiers hence they want to use the home advantage. “Of course either of the teams will have an edge over the others with home fans cheering them on. I hope after deliberating with the government and Nock, we will come up with a bid-winning amount. This is a straight forward process where the highest bidder takes it all,” intimated Kioni, who is also Team Kenya Chef de Mission for the 2020 Olympics. Meanwhile, Malkia Strikers jetted back in the country yesterday from a three-week tour of Japan, where the Paul Bitok charges managed a single win from the 12-team round-robin tournament. Team captain Mercy Moim said they picked valuable lessons from the tour. She , however, noted that to improve the game in Kenya, the federation must install age group academies. Kioni cleared the air that his federation has no intention of changing the technical bench ahead of the Tokyo 2020 Olympics qualifiers. He, however, steered clear changes in the playing unit saying: “Any necessary changes amongst the players is strictly the coaches’ mandate.”