MPs are once again on an all-out war with the Salaries and Remuneration Commission in their bid to bar the agency from varying their perks. In a fresh bid to extend their privileges, the lawmakers are also seeking immunity from the courts to shield themselves and MCAs from prosecution that may arise from matters before the august House. Specifically, they want the High Court barred from interfering with proceedings of Parliament and county assemblies. The proposed bill will affect matters still pending or before Parliament or any assembly committees. Citing the principle of separation of powers, the lawmakers want “any other state agency” blocked from defining or varying their terms of employment. The broad goal is to “limit interference by the respective organs of government in the internal functions of each other as may be mandated by the Constitution". SRC is mandated by the supreme law to define the terms of employment of state officers. To circumvent this, MPs plan to create a Parliamentary Fund to be administered by the Parliamentary Service Commission. This money will be free from scrutiny and ‘interference by other state organs’. Kenyans were on Monday invited by public notice to give their views on the bill by Ndaragwa MP Jeremiah Kioni who also doubles as the chairman of the Constitutional Implementation Oversight Committee. The proposal, if approved, will ring-fence PSC funds, hence limit SRC's jurisdiction in varying the remuneration and benefits as well as terminal dues payable to MPs. “The benefits shall not be varied to the disadvantage of the member or former member, and the terminal benefits of the member during their lifetime,” the proposal states. Kioni’s suggestion is that the fund will be used to run Parliament administratively, including paying salaries for members and staff. The administrator of the fund will draw the estimates of what is to be charged on the Consolidated Fund, the same to be approved by PSC. “Upon approval by the National Assembly, the funds shall be paid directly into the Parliamentary Fund,” Kioni says in his bill. He argues that the move is meant to enhance the independence of Parliament by having all money meant for the House deposited in the fund. “We want to maintain and protect the integrity of MPs by requiring that their terms and conditions of service are not varied once established,” he says. Limiting courts On the court's issue, MPs want the Constitution amended to add privileges that excuse legislators from any liability arising from suits on matters within their jurisdiction. They want the courts' powers to be limited to determining the constitutionality of laws made by Parliament and not to issue injunctions against any parliamentary process. “A member of Parliament is not liable in respect of anything done or omitted to be done in good faith in the lawful performance of a function in Parliament,” the amendment states, the same being the case of county assemblies. The basis of this reasoning is that in public law, Parliament and the High Court are equal and coordinate organs of government exercising separate constitutional functions. “The High Court, therefore, enjoys no supervisory (role) over Parliament but its powers are limited to determining the constitutionality of laws made by Parliament,” Kioni says. He says that courts can only intervene after Parliament has executed its mandate, even as the amendments may also mean the Auditor General and Controller of Budget will have no say in the management of the independent fund. SRC and Parliament have been at loggerheads over the MPs' attempt to bypass the salaries team on matters salaries and allowances. President Uhuru Kenyatta stepped in and vetoed the National Assembly’s amendment to the law which would have seen PSC bypass SRC in determining MPs’ pay. Parliamentarians sought to give themselves powers to authorise payment of allowances to members and staff for activities outside the precincts of Parliament. Uhuru also slammed the brakes on their bid to review their allowances every three years or a shorter period. He said any pay review can only be occasioned after approval by the SRC. 'Short-changed arm' SRC, in a November 2017 gazette notice, spelt that MPs be paid a maximum gross salary of Sh621,000, Sh8,000 in sitting allowance for committee chairpersons and Sh5,000 in sitting allowance for members. Other benefits are medical cover, retirement benefit, life insurance of three times their annual basic pay, accident cover, Sh7 million car loan and Sh20 million mortgage. MPs have been bidding for a Sh250,000 monthly house allowance, an issue that escalated the tension between PSC and SRC. The matter is pending in court after SRC sued to recover Sh700 million that was already paid to MPs. At the height of the exchanges, PSC declared war on their counterparts at the SRC saying policymakers are being short-changed. They accused the salaries team of secretly negotiating allowances for some cadres in the Executive arm of government. PSC vice-chairperson Naomi Shaban cited allowances paid to chief administrative secretaries, further holding that the same should be relooked as the position is not recognised by the Constitution. She further claimed that the SRC has been discussing perks for members of other commissions, including the Judicial Service Commission, among other state agencies. Denying claims they have demanded to be paid a night allowance, the lawmakers said it was unfair for the salaries team to treat them as ‘a negligible arm of government’. The MPs have also dismissed assertions that they are paid more than Sh1 million, earn tax-free allowances, enjoy five-star hotel facilities, as well as get extra coins from mileage allowance claims. They have also fought claims that NGCDF is a facility for MPs holding that they only play an oversight role over the Fund. Edited by R.Wamochie