The more than one million learners taking this year's KCPE complete the exam today. Focus now shifts to marking, which commences next week. Kenya National Examination Council CEO Mercy Karogo yesterday told the Star the exercise to start in the first week of November will involve 33,720 markers. Yesterday the candidates took Science, Kiswahili and Insha tests. Deputy President William Ruto led senior government officials in supervising distribution of Science exam materials at Nairobi’s Ngong Primary School. The school hosted candidates from Precious Top Talent School that was closed in September after a classroom collapsed killing eight pupils. Ruto said the government will ensure all candidates do the national test despite weather challenges. “There have been few challenges including transportation of examinations in some parts of the country due to the ongoing rains but contingency arrangements have been made,” he said. Today, the learners are writing Social Studies and Religious Education tests. In the Western region, transport was paralyzed along the Malaba-Busia highway forcing examiners to seek alternative routes to ensure exam papers reached their stations in time. In Central, heavy rains threatened the commencement of the examination in parts of Nyeri county. County commissioner Yatich Kipkemei told the Star the situation was addressed on time and learners sat their tests as scheduled. In Nairobi, nine candidates did not sit yesterday's exams. Meanwhile, the director of Framer Academy in Kerugoya and his head teacher were arraigned for attempting to stop a candidate from sitting the exams. It is alleged that the two, Francis Muriithi and Rose Njeri Rure, claimed that the pupil had not been attending classes regularly hence feared that he may lead to a drop in the school's mean score. Ruto on Wednesday said all the 1.08 million candidates will secure a place in secondary school in line with the 100 per cent transition policy of the government. “We have set up adequate infrastructure in our secondary schools that guarantees Class Eight candidates a slot in Form 1. This is part of the government’s 100 per cent transition plan from primary to high school to ensure equality,” he said. Ruto was accompanied by Education Principal Secretary Belio Kipsang. Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha led officials in government in inspecting examinations in Voi, Taita Taveta. Knec chairman John Onsati was deployed to Elgeyo Marakwet.