Makonde leaders have distanced the community from claims that some of their members took part in last week's Mozambique’s general elections. A source who did not want to be named had intimated at the weekend that some members of the community assembled at the Club Garden hotel in Mtwapa and remotely took part in the elections held on Tuesday last week. Makonde Community of Kenya chairperson Thomas Nguli acknowledged that he heard the rumours on Monday, but distanced the community from the allegations. “If it is true, then they acted in contravention of the law,” Nguli said. “We don’t recognise those who participated in that activity." Nguli faulted politicians "who have possibly mobilised some of their members and convinced them to take part in the exercise". “You know politicians have a habit of using gullible people. It looks like some politicians tricked some of our people who are misguided about their status,” he said. It is not clear how the Makonde could have participated in the South African nation’s elections. The Makonde have lived in Kenya since the 1930s. Most of them came as labourers in sisal and sugar plantations. Today, the Makonde are mostly found in Kwale. A few are in Kilifi and Taita Taveta counties. In December 2016, the Makonde were recognised by the state and granted national identity cards. Prior to that, they couldn’t get documents like IDs and birth certificates. This affected their ability to get employment. The coordinator of Msambweni Human Rights Watch (MHRW) Mahmoud Barroh told the Star On Monday they were aware of the claims. “We are aware that some members of the community have been involved in those elections,” Barroh said, adding that they fought hard to be patriotic to the country. MHRW alongside other civil society organisations participated in the four-day march to State House, Nairobi,  from Mombasa to highlight the plight of the then citizenless Makonde people. According to the Kenya Human Rights Commission, only 1,500 Makondes were issued with Kenyan IDs, leaving out many others. “When we did our first study we found there were 4,000 Makondes at the coast but later we were told they were about 10,000,” a KHRC official said. “So even if you were to go by the figure of 4,000, there are still 2,500 that did not receive Kenyan citizenship and some of these probably are loyal to either Tanzania or Mozambique." Edited by R.Wamochie