Nominated Jubilee MP Maina Kamanda has called on the Kikuyu community in Kibra to vote for ODM candidate Imran Okoth in the November 7 by-election. Kamanda said members of his community should vote for the ODM candidate in the spirit of the handshake. “When you see me here, know that President Uhuru Kenyatta is here. On November 7, please come out in large numbers to vote for Imran. Imran’s victory will be a win for the unity of this country,” he said. Kamanda, who was accompanied by Kigumo MP Ruth Mwaniki, spoke at Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Foundation offices in Upper Hill, where members of the Kikuyu community from Kibra had gathered to declare their support for Imran. Also present were ODM leader Raila Odinga and party secretary-general Edwin Sifuna. Kamanda said he would not stop campaigning for Imran even though his party has McDonald Mariga in the race. He asked voters to elect a person who would articulate their problems well and offer solutions to them. “Come November 8, I will be celebrating in Kibra with these people who are gathered here,” he added. He cautioned Central Kenya MPs against criticising Raila every time, saying millions of Kenyans voted for the ODM leader. “Even if I am a nominated MP, I will not be silenced,” he said. Mwaniki said Kikuyus should vote for Imran as he is the best candidate. "I don’t know why some leaders in Jubilee dragged Mariga into this race,” she said. Raila said he was headed to Mombasa but would be back in the city over the weekend for an all-out campaign for Imran. “We will get the BBI report soon but let us go to Kibra first. Kibra will be the first child of the BBI,” he said. Kamanda first declared support for the ODM candidate in September. He visited the ODM leader and declared that he was firmly behind the Opposition candidate, opting not to support Mariga who is widely seen as Deputy President William Ruto'  project. Jubilee MPs Alice Wahome (Kandara), Mary Waithera (Maragua) and Ndindi Nyoro (Kiharu) consequently asked nominated Kamanda to return his nominated position to the party and join ODM. The lawmakers said as a nominated MP he should be at the forefront in pushing the party agenda.