A man has been jailed for transferring property he co-owned with his estranged wife to his son and a third party. Jackson Kitili lost an appeal seeking to suspend a High Court order by Judge Abida Ali Aroni committing him to civil jail for contempt of court. He will be locked up for three years. Appeal judges Martha Koome, Hannah Okwengu and Fatuma Sichale did not find his plea that he suffers from poor health reason enough to stop him going to prison. The three dismissed his application for temporary reprieve pending the filing of a substantial appeal. Kitili’s mistake was to transfer three properties despite a court order stopping him from doing so while a case was in court. His former wife Peninah filed for contempt when she discovered what he had done. The application was successful and he was committed to three years in jail. To avoid the jail term he entered into an agreement with Peninah and a warrant for his arrest was lifted. However, he did not comply with the consent signed in court. When the parties appeared before the court on March 7, 2019, the judge was informed of the same. The judge then ruled that same day that she was reinstating the arrest warrant due to Kitili’s failure to comply with consent. “Further, the court from the history of this case sees a deliberate defiance on the part of the respondent (the man) to comply with orders issued. In order to bring this long outstanding matter to a closure, uphold the rule of law and the dignity of the institution and (sic) hereby reinstate the committal warrants, further, I direct the applicant (woman) to move the court to have the Deputy Registrar transfer the properties. The respondent will have no audience before the court until the contempt is purged.” Aggrieved, Kitili dashed to the Court of Appeal. He said the High Court judge denied him an opportunity to be heard. He further said that he suffers from high blood pressure and is apprehensive that if he is sent to prison, his health will suffer irreversible consequences. Kitili needed to demonstrate that first the appeal or intended appeal upon which the application was anchored, was arguable; and secondly, that should the court fail to grant the orders sought, the appeal would be rendered nugatory. The appeal judges found that he had not appealed against the High Court judgment. They also took judicial notice of the fact that he admitted having transferred three of the properties during the pendency of the proceedings. “Under these circumstances, we do not find any arguable issue in his intended appeal as it is apparent to us that the issues that the applicant is raising of having been denied natural justice [are] nothing other than a red herring,” the judges held. “As long as there is no appeal against that finding and order, the applicant cannot be heard to complain against its enforcement.” The judges noted that Kitili failed to comply with the consent agreed upon, and had not demonstrated any attempts to purge his apparent contempt. “In the circumstances, it is evident that the intended appeal is frivolous and does not raise any genuine triable issues.” Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya