 Your thieving days are numbered, Kiambu Deputy Governor James Nyoro has told county employees who steal and misappropriate public funds. Nyoro said he would expose them publicly and forward their names to the Ethics and Anti Corruption Commission. He spoke on Tuesday during the launch of a Sh800 million Githurai market in the company of among others Housing and Urban Development Principal Secretary Charles Hinga and MPs Simon King’ara (Ruiru) and Moses Kuria (Gatundu South). Nyoro, who fell out with Governor Ferdinand Waititu over the management of county affairs and misappropriation of funds, said he is ready to become the enemy of looters of public funds. “Those who have been plundering public funds meant for the development of Kiambu should know that I am going to expose them to the EACC. It’s wrong and disheartening to see officials mandated to protect public funds misuse their positions and steal from the public coffers,” Nyoro said. Waititu is facing Sh588 million graft charges and has been barred from accessing his county office. Nyoro is acting governor. He has faced several hurdles including a court order barring him from reshuffling, hiring or sacking county officials until a case filed by a voter is heard and determined. “Even if I am being barred from doing some things, I will do what I can in my capacity and for as long as I’m in the office I will not allow anyone to mishandle public funds in Kiambu,” he said. The DG  said that he has stopped some rogue officers from harassing traders by extorting money from them. “It was a cartel that was harassing traders using county vehicles. We have stopped them. We must respect business people who contribute a lot to our county’s economy,” he said. Nyoro said he will work with all county legislators and members of the County Assembly for the development of Kiambu. He was responding to Kuria's appeal that he should involve all county leaders in the development of the county. Kuria told Nyoro to engage all Kiambu elected leaders in county matters. “We were silent before because of the fights you had at the county government. If we talked we could have intensified the acrimony. But now things are okay and we must work together to bring development close to our people,” the legislator said. Nyoro promised to work with Kiambu leaders as lawyers handled the cases in courts. 