Just why was President Uhuru Kenyatta furious with Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko on Wednesday? During the commissioning of the Nairobi expressway, the President warned the governor against playing cheap politics as he invited him to speak. There are claims that the governor made his way to the event amid reports there was a plot but by some state operatives to bar him from addressing the public. Sonko has been under probe by EACC over a multi-million garbage contract. It’s not clear at what stage the probe. It is not clear if the President and the governor have fallen out.  Only time will tell. *** MCAs in Kakamega shockingly adjourned sittings just to visit a colleague who was allegedly assaulted by a female ward rep at the County Assembly Building. The male MCA is said to have been admitted at a local hospital after a female nominated colleague descended on him with slaps following an argument. Members of the public who had attended sessions were surprised when the ward reps agreed to suspend their work to visit their ‘ailing’’ colleague. Residents wondered why the MCAs could not have visited their colleague in the evening after conducting the day’s work just the way other hard-working Kenyans do. *** It is generally expected that women legislators, owing to their good perks, would be at the forefront in maintaining the highest standards of hygiene. However, a group of female legislators whispered to Corridors that they were not happy with the way one of their colleagues attends to her hair. They lamented that their colleague’s hair is badly kept and it is an eye-sore and embarrassment to them. The MPs indicated that are still trying to figure out how to approach their colleague and tell her about the issue without hurting her feelings. *** Corridors has been informed that a Chief of Staff at a county in western Kenya is feared more than the governor himself. According to an insider at the county, employees at the county prefer dealing with the governor himself, the CECs, chief officers and other senior officers but never the chief of staff. Residents, however, blame the governor for making the Chief of Staff so powerful. The county chief is said to have allowed the chief of staff to take charge of nearly all contracts and even vetoes some of the Cabinet decisions.