The Kenyan 3,000m steeplechase team in the ongoing World Athletics Championship in Doha, will not be cowed by the presence of three-time Diamond League champion and Moroccan Soufiane El Bakkali in the semifinals heats today at the Khalifa International Stadium. Kenya will front an experienced quartet of defending champions Conseslus Kipruto, African Games champion Benjamin Kigen, world U-20 silver medalist Leonard Bett and Commonwealth Games silver medallist Abraham Kibiwott. Among the athletes deemed as a threat to Kenyan ambition of retaining the title if not making a clean sweep, is Bakkali, who has in the past not hid his intentions of breaking the former’s dominance in the water and barrier event. Bakkali claimed silver in London and was fourth at the 2016 Olympic Games. However, Kigen predicts an easy qualification for the Kenyan athletes despite the threat posed by Bakkali who is commonly known for his record of bettering the discipline by eight minutes. Kigen banks on the humid conditions to cruise to the finals without much strain. “I have faced him on many occasions and his presence in the heats is not a big deal to us although he is unpredictable. We are prepared as a team for the race and I think we will all qualify to the finals. I personally perform well in hot conditions which will favour me today. I have recovered well from the Diamond League series and looking forward to the race.” While the trio of Kigen, Kipruto and Kibiwott will be out to extend their rich vein of success at the senior level as well as sail to the finals, Bett, on the other hand, will be out to punch above his weight on his debut. Kenya has won 12 out of the last 16 world titles. The youthful athlete who also won the World U-18 2000m steeplechase booked a place into the event by virtue of winning the trials. “It’s my first time to be in the championships at the senior category and I am raring to go. I am not scared of the competition and despite my inexperience at this level, I am hoping that I will give a good account of myself.”