 Amani National Congress party leader Musalia Mudavadi has reiterated he will be on the ballot as a presidential candidate in 2022 General Elections. Speaking in Kakamega on Thursday, Mudavadi said he was firmly in the race and will fight to the end. “I just want to reassure you, my people, that I'm in the field, we shall fight with my competitors up to the year 2022. I will be there, God willing. I'll be in the field in 2022 and there are no two ways about it,” Musalia said. He spoke at the funeral service of Adelaide Khalwale at Masinde Muliro University. Adelaide is the wife of former Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale. Mudavadi was reacting to comment by Khalwale who asked him to join hands with leaders from other regions to form the next government. Khalwale said it would be impossible for Mudavadi to ascent to power without the support of other regions because "the standard for becoming a president is very high." “Because I’m a leader from my community who is respected, I have decided to make the first step of creating a friendship with strong leaders from other regions, counties, and communities so that we create a critical mass that will be in government. There is no short cut,” Khalwale said He said Musalia should navigate around the path he (Khalwale) has created in order to be in the next government. Khalwale is a strong supporter of Deputy President William Ruto. He said he was still committed to a one Luhya house that will one day be able to empower all and that "I stand with Mudavadi now more than 2013.” “I have decided to do the difficult thing which is to negotiate for friendship with others because Mudavadi knows even if we all vote for him as a community and as a region, he knows he can’t win,” Khalwale said. Adelide was an employee of Masinde Muliro University. She passed on last week after a long battle with cervical cancer. Speakers eulogised her as a humble, loving, caring, motherly and professional woman. She will be laid to rest on Saturday at her Malinya home in Ikolomani, Kakamega county.  edited by peter obuya