The role of the pharmacist continues to evolve and develop, and in Kenya, pharmacies are the third most popular service providers for outpatient care after public health centres, dispensaries and public hospitals. This is according to the Kenya Household Health Expenditure Survey of 2013. Within the sports context, roles of pharmacists in various aspects of sporting culture and competition range from providing advice to non-competitive or individual fitness and local club sports, to advice for elite athletes competing locally and internationally. However, pharmacists with expertise in sports medicine must stay current with new and changing recommendations concerning the use of appropriate products. According to the Kenyan Anti-Doping Act which was enacted in 2016 a medical practitioner, pharmacist, veterinary surgeon, dentist, nurse, physiotherapist, traditional herbalist or any other health-related professional who; prescribes or dispenses prohibited substances or methods to an athlete with the intent of doping; unlawfully administers prohibited substances or methods to an athlete; acquires, stocks or is found in unlawful possession of prohibited substances; or aids, abets or in any way encourages the unlawful use of prohibited substances in sport commits an offence and shall be liable, upon conviction, to a fine of not less than three million shillings or to imprisonment for a term of not less than three years or both. In addition, they shall have their professional license revoked for a period of not less than one year. It is this legal provision that requires careful and meticulous execution of work by this team of medical practitioners to avoid finding themselves on the wrong side of the law in so far as doping is concerned. The Pharmacy and Poisons Board had by July last year, registered 5,840 pharmacies with Nairobi having the most at 1,850. Athlete-rich areas of South and North Rift Valley have 610 and 460 chemists respectively. From the registered ones, the board has inspected 3,383 and closed 738 chemists. In April last year, the Anti-Doping Agency of Kenya (ADAK) also carried out a multi-agency raid to a chemist that was allegedly dispensing performance-enhancing medication to athletes in Eldoret town. The proprietor was arrested, the chemist shut down and a case filed in court. Provision of prescription information to athletes and their support personnel may fall within the scope of sports pharmacy. A pharmacist with expertise in sports medicine could assist in the identification, management and monitoring of athletes who seek treatment without prescriptions and eventually end up suffering adverse effects. The cardinal rule for this group of practitioners is to ensure that they do not handle athletes just like any other patient or customer given that their needs are varied and special. Lack of educational and sensitization opportunities for pharmacists and pharmacy students to learn and practice aspects of sports places a significant burden on those wishing to provide evidence-based advice to athletes. The Anti-Doping Agency of Kenya (ADAK) has conducted some sensitization workshops for this category of professionals through their umbrella body. From the evaluation and feedback received from these sessions, it is instinctive that a lot more needs to be done to educate these practitioners who fall under the athlete support personnel category in the sports realm. It is one thing regulating their activities with respect to doping but it is also another to provide adequate resources to ensure that they do not end up in court on issues they would have avoided if information had been provided in good time. This group of professionals play a vital role in as far as advising athletes to first seek medical evaluation from qualified physicians is concerned and guiding them on the medication to use. But even as all these frameworks are being put in place, it is worth noting that quacks have also found their way into this profession further putting athletes at risk of testing positive for prohibited substances. In March this year, the President of the Pharmaceutical Society of Kenya wrote to the Attorney General decrying the poor regulation of the local pharmaceutical market, which has led to the proliferation of unqualified persons practising pharmacy contrary to the law and contrary to best global practices stipulated by the World Health Organization (WHO). A good example is a case where some medicines referred to as part one poisons are stocked by chemists which are not licensed to dispense them. Such medicines need to be dispensed by practitioners who know how to handle any adverse effects, and such practitioners should go beyond dispensing to giving additional information to patients. The government needs to avail resources for proper training of pharmacists on their role in sports while at the same time ensuring a review of the curriculum to include aspects of anti-doping. In the same breath, practising pharmacists should be careful when dealing with athletes so as not to be prosecuted for Anti-Doping Rule Violations. Athletes are one of the country’s most valuable assets and should be treated as such right from training through to how their injuries are managed.