MPs allied to President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga yesterday said the collapse of the Punguza Mizigo Bill shows how the 2022 race will shape up. The group of MPs from both Jubilee and ODM said that some individuals were hiding behind the referendum Bill to bolster their 2022 bid. By Thursday, 31 counties had rejected the Punguza Mizigo Bill which was being spearheaded by the Thirdway Alliance Party. The lawmakers calling themselves as Uhuru and Raila's foot soldiers said they are looking forward to the Building the Bridges Initiative report to be presented to the two by October 23. MPs Ngunjiri Wambugu (Nyeri Town), TJ Kajwang' (Ruaraka), Maoka Maore (Igembe North), Mishi Mboko (Likoni), Antony Oluoch (Mathare), Gathoni Wamuchomba (Kiambu woman representative) and Abdi Shurie (Balambala) said they will help Kenyans understand the report. "We will do everything as Parliamentarians to get all Kenyans to know the contents of the report," Wambugu said. "We appreciate the 31 counties which have so far voted to reject the Bill. It is like 99 per cent of the assemblies have rejected the initiative," Oluoch said. So far only Uasin Gishu county has approved the Punguza Mizigo Bill. The initiative has been rejected in Mombasa, Kwale, Kilifi, Tana River, Kisumu, Migori, Siaya, Taita Taveta, Garissa, Mandera, Marsabit, Isiolo, Embu, Kitui, Machakos and Nyandarua. Nyeri, Murang’a, Samburu, TransNzoia, Elgeyo Marakwet, Nandi, Baringo, Narok, Kajiado, Kericho, Bomet, Kakamega, Vihiga, Busia,  Kisii, Nyamira and Nairobi counties have also shoved it aside. The leaders also faulted a clique of politicians whom they claimed wanted to ride on the failed Punguza Mzigo bid to divide the country ahead of the BBI report launch. “There are political forces that had expected to use the Punguza Mizigo as a political tool to divide Kenyans and create obstacles against BBI. We hope they have learnt that Kenyans are not for sale,” Nyeri Town MP said. Kajwang' dismissed the Thirdway Alliance leader Ekuru Aukot's bid to block BBI in court saying it is an exercise in futility. "His going to court is a matter of his Constitutional right. It has no pressure at all on the BBI initiative," Kajwang' said. The MPs urged Kenyans to wait for the BBI team to present their reports which will be more comprehensive as it includes views from across the country. Mboko said they will traverse the country to help Kenyans understand the content of the report. (edited by O. Owino)