Husbands in Bondo constituency have complained of going hungry at lunch due to the free primary school feeding programme — their wives aren't home to cook for them. MP Gideon Ochanda said on Wednesday that some men have been going hungry at lunch since their children have been fed at school since 2017. Their wives go on errands and do other work, no longer cooking for their husbands. Men appear unable or willing to cook for themselves, as that's women's work.. “We have received information that some men complain of going hungry because their wives are not available during lunchtime to cook for them,” Ochanda said. He spoke during a morning talk show on Radio Mayienga FM. Ochanda said, however, that the ambitious feeding programme, which was opposed by local politicians, collapsed due to poor planning by his sponsoring CDF office. He said logistical problems of ferrying and storing food exceeded the budget. Ochanda said a bag of maize would cost Sh3 million per year, including purchase and logistics. Ferrying a bag of maize to schools using a boda boda would cost Sh5 million per year. The legislator said his office is to relaunch the programme in October/November, saying it has helped increase pupils' enrolment. “We have recorded high levels of school retention of learners and parents have had ample time to engaging in important errands," Ochanda said. In an effort to revamp and sustain the programme, the legislator said, his office has initiated changes including purchasing cheap maize and beans during bumper harvests in different regions. “We used to purchase food at expensive prices, hence, the setback in the programme,” Ochanda said. He said other initiatives include purchasing of foodstuffs and delivering them to the schools each term. Only those with storage facilities and adequate preparation would be given priority. “We have learnt this through analysis. In 2017 we budgeted for 2kg maize that was to cost just Sh40, only to buy the same for Sh110 when prices were high," the MP said. Ochanda said that last week he went around the constituency and met parents and stakeholders to agree on how they would shoulder part of the burden of storing and ferrying the foodstuffs to their institution. (Edited by V. Graham)