The 11th edition of the Isaiah Kiplagat Ndalat Gaa cross country yesterday received Sh 7.3 million boost yesterday ahead of the October 19 event in Nandi County. Safaricom, who have funded the event since it's inception alongside Kass Media and Nandi County Government donated 2 million each. Kenya Pipeline Company donated Sh500, 000, Athletics Kenya (Sh300,000), Silverstone Air (Sh200,000) and the Constituency Development Fund of Mosop (Sh300,000). More support has been received from Nike International, Heart Attack Concern Kenya (HACK), Moi Teaching and Referal Hospital and Amaco among others. The Ndalat Gaa cross country was founded by the late AK supremo Isaiah Kiplagat to discover and nurture new talents in the country. The senior vice president, Paul Mutwii, said the federation is keen to continue Kiplagat’s legacy. “We would like to thank the family of our late AK President Isaiah Kiplagat for keeping the event alive after his death and more so for allowing AK to hold up Kiplagat's legacy,” said Mutwii. The launch was graced by Isaiah Kiplagat’s family represented by Captain Moses Kiplagat and his nephews and the Nandi County deputy governor Euliter Cheruiyot. The event's coordinator Abraham Mutai said the race has been moved to a new location due to a growing number of participants. Mutai intimated that they are expecting 5,000 runners which will be an increment from 1,500 last year. “The event will feature six categories and the registration will be conducted on the morning of the event. Since the event began in 2008, we have seen growth in the numbers of competitors which has consequently necessitated us to move to a bigger venue. There will also be a medical camp led by the County Government of Nandi in conjunction with HACK,” noted Mutai. The races will bring together runners from the ages between five to 60 years. From last year’s event, the Kiplagat family begun a mentorship program headed by matriarch Betty Kiplagat for young athletes between age five to 21. It was held over the school holidays starting December 2018, then April and August this year at Isaiah’s homestead. The first class graduated in August and will be running in next week’s event. “With the help of Patrick Sang (Eliud Kipchoge’s coach), we saw it fit to start a mentorship program after the realisation that most athletes are not nurtured. The first class had 100 athletes and we look forward to the numbers growing,” Moses said.