President Uhuru Kenyatta on Friday awarded a charter to Umma University after the institution met ministry requirements. The university was also presented with the mace logo seal and two volumes of accreditation reports at a ceremony held in State House, Mombasa. The university that first started as a diploma college in Thika is now a fully fledged university based in Kajiado county. The President urged the university to offer quality education and contribute to the country's development through specialising in fields that directly contribute to the economy. “In this context, Umma University and indeed all universities, must recognise their important role in educating our young people for a rapidly changing world,” Uhuru said. The Head of State encouraged universities to develop and nurture partnerships with the private sector and county governments geared towards finding solutions to challenges facing Kenyans. Education CS Prof George Magoha was also in attendance and said he had visited Umma University and was impressed by its achievements. Uhuru had made a promise to award the university with the charter in June 2017 when he hosted Idd Baraza at State House. Kenya Red Cross Society secretary-general Abbas Gullet was installed as the first Chancellor of the University, while Dr Idle Farah is the vice-chancellor. While thanking the president, Gullet said that the institution, which has been in existence since the year 2009, would focus on technology and innovation, with an aim of achieving the big 4 agenda. Gullet has further said that though it was founded on an Islamic background, Umma University is also admitting students from other religions, in a bid to foster harmony and unity in the country. The institution has already admitted more than 2,000 students in different academic programmes, including business and economics, computing, education, nursing and school of sharia and Islamic studies. The university, whose main campus is in Kajiado County, is sponsored by direct aid, an international non-governmental organisation. Currently, there are 15 chartered universities in the country, even as the government continues to focus its energies on growing middle-level colleges and vocational training centres.