The ruling on the DPP's appeal against the acquittal of suspects accused of defrauding Miwani Sugar Company of Sh2.3 billion land has again been postponed. The High Court in Nairobi will instead issue a notice on the ruling date. The ruling was to be delivered on September 24 at the Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Division of the High Court but it was pushed to October 1. Farmers who have been going to Nairobi from Kisumu for the ruling and future of the land expressed disappointment and asked why the matter was postponed every time it came up. This was the second time they had travelled for the case and it was not settled as scheduled earlier. “We farmers need to know the fate of the Miwani land because at it stands now, the case is hindering privatisation of the Miwani Sugar Company,” one farmer told the Star by phone. Assistant DPP Frederick Ashimosi said they were informed the court will give a short notice on the ruling date, as it appears the judgment might not be ready. In the case, Sukhwinder Chatte, Ian Maina, Philip Odongo, Epanaito Okoyo and Crossley Holdings Limited were acquitted for lack of evidence. The DPP appealed their acquittal. Their co-accused — Adulakadir Elkindy, a former magistrate, and Moses Osewe — were found to have conspired to defraud the state firm of 9,394 acres between May 21, 2007, and January 30, 2008. Kisumu chief magistrate Julius Ng'arng'ar had ruled that Elkindy and Osewe had a case to answer at trial. Thirty witnesses testified. Elkindy was charged with abuse of office, but she said her signature was forged to facilitate the alleged transfer. Osewe is said to have failed to collect land rates. One the accused, John Gitau, died before the ruling was delivered. The Directorate of Public Prosecutions faulted the acquittal. In July, Assistant DPP Ashimosi told the Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Court that he had sufficient evidence against the five. He told the court they had proof that the value of the grabbed property was Sh2.3 billion and took issue with Ng’arng'ar's assertion that the investigation was shoddy. "We will also prove that the land in question belongs to Miwani Sugar Company and not as earlier ruled,” he told Justice Mumbi Ngugi while submitting the appeal. The accused are said to have conspired to defraud the state through forgery, fraudulent disposal of public property and fraudulent acquisition of public property. Ashimosi said parts of the ruling were contradictory. “The magistrate ruled that Osewe and former magistrate Elkindy had a case to answer on charges of abuse of office, yet he established that there was no proof of a conspiracy against Chatte and Crossley Holdings, to whom the property was transferred,” he said. He said evidence at their disposal showed that Maina, Kimani, Odongo and Okoyo aided the irregular transfer by forging documents. (Edited by V. Graham)