Ugandan opposition leader Bobi Wine has hit back at President Yoweri Museveni who for calling him an enemy of Uganda'. Wine, well know as Robert Kyagulani on his twitter said Museveni is a 'liar running down the country. Museveni had in a BBC interview said Wine was an 'enemy of progress' to Ugandans. In the interview, Museveni dismissed claims that he was using force to run down the country. He said his government is not repressive, but was dealing with Bobi Wine as an enemy. "Bobi Wine went to America and said that people should not come invest in Uganda. That means he is an enemy of progress in Uganda. When you go and tell foreigners that they should not come and invest in our country, you are waging war on our prosperity. So why then do you want to come and take advantage of that prosperity?,"BBC reported. Museveni in the interview said though he had not obtained a full police report, it could be the same reason why police cancelled all the concerts for Bobi Wine a renown musician. Museveni said he still had unfinished business in Uganda as president and would only leave if asked to do so by his National Resistance Movement (NRM) party. "My home is waiting for me, but we have issues as Uganda to deal with. It is those issues that make us do what we decide to do politically along with our colleagues,"he said. According to him, if the fraternity of NRM think that they no longer require the contribution of the elders like him, then he  will happily go and do other things. But Bobi Wine in his response said it was Museveni who is the 'enemy' of the people of Uganda. "Shamelessly Mr. Museveni brands me enemy of Uganda's progress! Mr. President, your first name is corruption, second liar, third despot. You've ran down our country, killed our people, destroyed institutions and rule us through the barrel of the gun! You are the enemy of Uganda!,"the tweet read. The young artist  recently declared that he would challenge Museveni, 75, for the presidency in the 2021 election. Uganda's president has been in power since 1986.