In 11 days, Over 100,000 registered voters of Kibra constituency are expected to vote one of the 24 candidates to be the next Kibra MP. As the voters queue in polling stations on November 7 waiting patiently to cast their votes, ODM candidate Imran Okoth will be one of the faces in their ballot papers. The by-election was occasioned by the death of Ken Okoth who succumbed to cancer. Other  leading candidates seeking the Kibra parliamentary seat are; Jubilee's McDonald Mariga, Ford Kenya's Butichi Khamisi and ANC's Eliud Owalo. Every great political campaign, they say, rewrites the rules; devising a new way to win is what gives campaigns a comparative advantage against their foes. This saying has never rung truer than with the rigorous campaigns in Kibra. The 24 candidates cleared by the IEBC to contest in the high-stakes elections have since embarked on meticulous campaigns. Meeting voters at homes, in markets, churches and rallies. In a tweet by the ODM party , legislators from the Western region and other party officials held a whirlwind tour of Kibra Constituency on Friday to drum up support for Imran ahead of Sunday's campaign. "Campaign chairman George Aladwa, legislators from the Western region & other party officials held a whirlwind tour of Kibra Constituency to drum up support for Bernard Otieno Okoth ahead of tomorrow’s mega rally to be addressed by PL Raila Odinga, "read the tweet. On Sunday, Imran held his major rally at Laini Saba grounds in a final push to woo residents. Here is the list of leaders present in his rally 1. ODM party leader Raila Odinga 2. Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya 3. Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala 4. Nominated MP  Godfrey Osotsi 5. Seme MP James Nyikal 6. Nominated Senator Gertrude Musurive 7.Rarieda MP Otiende Amollo 8.Ruaraka MP TJ Kajwang' 9.Dagoretti South MP Simba Arati 10.Former Westlands MP Fred Gumo Should  Imran become Kibra MP, he will join a list of individuals who have gotten into leadership due to their family ties. Others include Kitui West MP Edith Nyenze, who took over from her husband, Francis Nyenze, after he passed on after the 2017 General Election; Homa Bay Senator Moses Kajwang’ who took over from his brother, Otieno Kajwang and Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jnr, who took over from his father following his death in 2013.