A section of leaders from Mt Kenya have vowed to support Deputy President William Ruto for president in 2022. Speaking at the home of Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua on Sunday, the leaders said the region will return the favour to DP after supporting President Uhuru Kenyatta in the 2013 and the 2017 presidential election. Gachagua said residents of Mt Kenya would not be misled to support individuals whose development track record was unknown to them. “We will rally behind the leadership of the Deputy President for presidency in 2022 because he has stood with us and that his development track record is clear,” Gachagua said. His sentiments were echoed by Naivasha MP Jane Kihara who said the Kikuyu community was firmly behind the leadership of President Uhuru Kenyatta and the Deputy President as contained in the party’s 2013 pact. “No one will dissuade us from supporting the Deputy President when President Kenyatta’s term comes to an end,” Kihara said. On its part, Maragua MP Mary Waithira said no amount of intimidation would stop them from supporting Ruto who is keen to succeed Uhuru. “We want to assure Kenyans that no amount of intimidation would deter us from supporting Dr Ruto for the presidency in 2022,” Waithira said. Earlier in the day, the Deputy President joined worshipers for Sunday service at the Presbyterian Church of East Africa Karatina and Tumutumu, Icuga Parish respectively. He asked Christians to continue praying for peace and unity of the country for the sake of accelerated development. “As Christians, we should continue praying for peace and the unity of all Kenyans,” the DP said. He said Sh40 billion had been set aside for the expansion of Kenol-Marua road to ease congestion as part of the Government’s infrastructural development across the country. Ruto also said plans were underway to connect another 40,000 households in Nyeri County following the allocation of Sh1.8 billion for the project under phase two of the Last Mile Connectivity Programme. “We have also set aside Sh1.2 billion for water projects in Mathira to solve the problem of water shortage in this region,” Ruo noted. The Deputy President said nothing would deter Jubilee’s agenda on unity and development of all Kenyans. The leaders present included MPs Rigathi Gachagua (Mathira), John Muchiri (Manyatta), Jane Kihara (Naivasha), Kimani Ngunjiri (Bahati), Gichuki Mwangi (Tetu), Rehema Jaldesa (Women Rep, Isiolo), Mugambi Rindikiri (Buuri), Halima Mucheke (nominated), Aisha Jumwa (Malindi), Rahab Mukami (Women Rep, Nyeri) and Gichugi Mugambi (Othaya).