 Some 11,836 Nairobi county workers will have to wait longer for their September salaries because Governor Mike Sonko is yet to sign the appropriation bill. “September 2019 salary payment may delay due to the unsigned appropriation bill,” Kenya County Government Workers Union secretary general Benson Olianga said on Monday. Olianga was apprehensive that most of the money expected by City Hall might be attached by the Kenya Revenue Authority. “To avoid this the governor has to sign the appropriation bill and then the full budget will be uploaded for the Treasury to enable them to access the Sh1 billion, which is supposedly KRA's portion," the trade unionist said. He said the union has not received any communication from the governor. “The governor is on record saying he normally ensures that all county workers are paid by the 25th of every month. So far we have not received any communication from him nor his office and when I attempted to reach him, he didn’t pick the phone,” Olianga said. He reminded Sonko that the staff have bills to pay and expenses to meet and called on him to sign the bill without further delay. The governor's communication director Elkana Jacob told the Star that the governor was to sign the bill yesterday (Tuesday). "The governor will be signing the bill and the workers will be having their salaries as soon as possible," he said. Sonko's administration was among counties which paid county workers on time in July and August despite the stalemate between the Senate and the National Assembly over the Division of Revenue Bill, 2019. The bill spells out the sharing of revenue between the national and county governments for the 2019-20 financial year. The senators had allocated the counties Sh335 million, while MPs insisted on Sh316 billion. The two Houses settled on Sh316 billion last month and counties are to receive the first quota of Sh55.05 billion (quarter one allocation) after the Senate last Wednesday approved the Cash Disbursement Schedule for 2019-20 from the Treasury. The schedule details the amounts every county will receive by the 15th of every month. It will be released to the individual county revenue funds accounts by the Central Bank of Kenya. They will receive Sh15.19 billion for July, Sh19.93 billion for August and Sh19.93 billion for September. Nairobi county will get Sh2.76 billion – the highest for the three-month period. Besides the equitable share of revenue, counties will get additional Sh3.5 billion conditional grants.