Team Kenya received a heroic welcome on Monday, when they touched down at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport from the World Athletics Championships in Doha, Qatar yesterday. Operations at the Terminal 1E came to a halt as song and dance rent the air as the victorious athletes exited the clearance section with families, friends and colleagues milling to catch a glimpse of the world-beaters. Sports Cabinet secretary Amina Mohamed led the delegation accompanied by Administrative Secretary Hassan Noor and Sports Fund chairman Moody Awori alongside Athletics Kenya top executives, led by treasurer David Miano. Kenya Prisons staff were not left behind as they were celebrating the gold medal of world 1500m champion Timothy Cheruiyot. Deputy Commissioner of Prisons Duncan Ogore,  assistant Commissioner of Prisons Nicholas Maswai and assistant Commissioner in charge of Sports — two-time world marathon champion Catherine Ndereba led the delegation from the correctional department. Kenya finished second behind United States with five gold, two silver and four bronze medals. Two -time world champion Hellen Obiri said she is plotting next year and is keen to double in the 5,000m and 10,000m at the Tokyo Olympic Games next year. “I’m looking at giving at a go in Tokyo next year. I believe I have what it takes to do it again and then defend my 5,000m crown in Eugene in 2021, God willing,” said Obiri. Olympic and World 3000m steeplechase champion Conseslus Kipruto said the fear of failure drove him to dip in the end of a thrilling final against Ethiopia’s Lamecha Girma. “I don’t want to be associated with failure and I did not want the gold to leave the country so I believed in myself that in the final 50m I was going to my all,” he said. Kipruto will now rest for the remainder of the year before starting his training for the defence of the Olympic crown next year. On Kenya’s waning dominance in the barriers event, Kipruto was confident that it will not end soon. “I think we have a good crop of steeplechasers coming through. I am also still young and we will do our best for the country,” added Kipruto. World marathon silver medallist Amos Kipruto said he hopes to be selected for the Olympics next year. “I hope I can make the team to the Olympics next year. The race in Doha was tough but I hang in there despite the conditions,” noted Kipruto.