The office of the Ethiopian Prime Minister, Abiy Ahmed, has expressed pride following the announcement that the PM had been awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. Through a press statement from the PM's office on Friday, the PM said that the recognition was a timeless ideal of unity, cooperation and mutual coexistence that he has been undertaking. "Today, as the world takes notes and celebrates his achievement through bestowing the Nobel Peace Prize, we invite Ethiopians and friends of Ethiopia to continue standing on the side of peace. This victory and recognition is a collective win for Ethiopians and our call to strengthen our resolve in making Ethiopia the New Horizon of Hope- a prosperous nation for all," part of the PM's statement read. The PM said that ending a two-decade stalemate with its neighbour Eritrea opened a new dimension of possibilities for cooperation between the two countries. He further said that the ceasing of political hostilities between the two neighbouring countries enabled friends and families that had been long divided to unite. The PM received numerous congratulations after the announcement from Kenyans and across the border. UN Secretary-General António Guterres said," Congratulations to Prime Minister of Ethiopia for being awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. His vision helped Ethiopia and Eritrea achieve a historic rapprochement & his leadership has set a wonderful example for others in and beyond Africa." Sports CS Amb Amina Mohamed said, "Deepest congratulations to H.E Abiy Ahmed, Prime Minister of the Federal Republic of Ethiopia, the people of Ethiopia and the continent of Africa on conferment of this year’s Nobel Peace Prize. When peace thrives, our people flourish." "Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed Ali is an excellent choice to get this year's Nobel Peace Prize. Finally, the Nobel Peace Committee is back in honoring leaders who swim against the tide and take huge political risk to make peace with disputing neighbors," Prof Ashok Swain said. Twitter users congratulated Abiy. Jabir Botan said, "Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed of Ethiopia was recognised for starting peace talks with Eritrea and establishing a peace agreement to end the long stalemate between the two countries." Sir John said, "It clearly shows when you choose the path of rightness, the rewards keep coming. The peace deal with Eritrea, Sudan transition, South Sudan peace deal, & Somalia intervention. He fully deserves it." "Congratulations to Abiy Ahmed for winning Nobel Peace Prize. The award was rightly awarded to the most deserving candidate," Ilyas Kasim said. Albert Mwamburi said, "Ethiopia's Abiy Ahmed has been going places, fast and now he's reaching destinations that for many come after a very long grueling journey." "He started peace talks with Eritrea and reached an agreement which ended the long stalemate between the two neighbour's. That was a bold move. Also his engagement with Somalia is encouraging. Congratulations to the People of Ethiopia and Their Leader," Abdalla Hassan said.