Migori Agriculture executive Valentine Ogongo has dared MCAs to impeach him over allegations of misappropriated funds. Ogongo differed with Muhuru Bay MCA Hevron Maira, and a member of the assembly’s Agriculture committee, over claims that Sh185 million has been misappropriated in his department. Maira has been vocal in the assembly with his letter dated April this year against clerk Tom Opere over similar claims leading to his suspension. Opere moved to Kisumu Employment, Labour and Relations Court to challenge his suspension in an ongoing court battle. On Friday, in a press conference in Migori town, Maira said several vote heads in the department were not adhered to, with some not reaching farmers. “The money has ended up in an individual's pocket,” Maira said, adding that what the assembly passed in the 2018-19 financial year and what is on the ground are different. “We have informed the relevant investigating agencies to come and investigate the entire budget. The system was deliberately designed to steal money through floated procurement,” Maira claimed. He said while assembly allocated Sh4.2million to buy maize seeds for 40 wards, only 25 bags reached each ward against targeted 70 bags, with similar allegations made over Sh44million allocated for fertilizer. He also raised issues on Sh5.6 million set for fall armyworm eradication, Sh20 million for tissue culture banana distribution and Sh100 million set aside for dairy cows and Sahiwal bulls distribution. Some Sh9.5 million set aside to build a hostel at Miyare Agriculture Training College is also alleged to have been misappropriated. But reacting angrily to the claims in his office in Migori town on Friday, Ogongo termed Maira as a “mad man” who is “wasting time with allegations without coming to his office or summon him through the assembly.” “Maira has the power to summon me to assembly and initiate impeachment motion if he has any claims. Most of them are unsubstantiated. A frog’s cry will never present a cow from drinking,” Ogongo said. He said the Sh9.5million allocated to Miyare ATC was revised to Sh45million and work is ongoing, while the procurement process to get dairy and Sahiwal cattle stopped mid-way as no one won the tender. He said his department has a list of all the farmers who benefitted from several vote heads raised by the MCA and no money was lost. 