The row at the Turkana University College over claims of mismanagement and irregular spending intensified after the varsity council invited the EACC to investigate. Some senior officials who were removed from their offices and chased away have also sued to challenge their removal. One of those who have sued in Eldoret High Court is Professor Stephen Odebero who says he was evicted at gunpoint on July 20 and not allowed to collect his personal items. “I was attacked by goons within the university and forced out at gunpoint on claims that I was undermining the college principal. I have tried all ways to go back and pick my belongings but I have not succeeded," Odebero said. A female employee who says she was physically attacked by a colleague has instructed her lawyers to sue. A number of university staff want  principal Ekamais Akuja removed on grounds of irregular practices, harassment and high-handedness. Akuja has dismissed the allegations, saying issues at the institution have been resolved. The university is a constituent college of Masinde Muliro University. “Those issues are nonsense and if you are a journalist, then we don’t engage with people like you. We finished those issues you are talking about,” Akuja told the Star on the phone before hanging up. The Star has established that the EACC is already investigating following complaints from staff and the university council. Council chairman Dr Mussolini Kithome wrote to Akuja advising him to reinstate Odebero to avoid costly and unnecessary litigation, without success. TUC is a constituent college of the Masinde Muliro University whose VC had appointed Odeberoto be acting Deputy Principal in charge of administration and finance at the Lodwar-based college. Odebero accuses the principal of ignoring court orders to allow him to pick his belongings from his former office which remains locked. “You have continually demonstrated impunity of the highest order by constantly flouting statutory laws governing universities and the legal notice that established TUC," Kithome said in his letter to Akuja. The employees have questioned why the university council chaired by Kithome wrote to Akuja, listing 15 complaints, but failed to act on any of them. The college has spent about Sh25 million in irregular payments and irregular travel by Akuja, emloyees said. Kithome confirmed he had written a letter to Akuja and other complaints have arisen. University sources claim the council is frustrated by a senior national government official in Turkana who opposes management changes. Once the EACC completes its probe, the council is planning to act. “On several occasions, some members of the council and myself talked to you with the hope that you would change your attitude and approach in the performance of your duties but to no avail,” Kithome wrote to Akuja. The principal is accused of travelling widely, including to foreign destinations, without producing reports as required by prudent management. The council has also accused  Akuja of failing to adhere to Public  Finance Management regulations. “You never provided adequate and satisfactory explanations to audit queries raised such as the unexplained large sums of money that were withdrawn from the TUC bank accounts without any supporting documents,” read the council's letter. The letter calls Akuja a liability to the university because of his “laissez-faire management style, free-reign leadership, arrogance and casual approach in dispensing his duties”. (Edited by V. Graham) 