After discovering their winning formula against Bermuda on Monday, Kenya will hope to continue with the same spirit when they battle giant-killers Singapore in their fourth match of the ongoing ICC World Twenty20 qualifier. After going down to Scotland and Netherlands in their first two matches of the UAE tour, Kenya revived their chances of making it into the play offs with a win over Bermuda. Unlike Bermuda, who were still searching for their first win in the match against Kenya, Singapore have had a good show in the event winning all their matches. Singapore’s best moment of the tournament came on the opening day when they beat favourites Scotland by two runs. Kenya’s win over Bermuda has given the players self-confidence as they enter the second stage of their pool matches, according to skipper Shem Obado. “Any win that you register in such an event gives you confidence into the next match,” said Obado following the win over Bermuda. “We faced some tough teams and gave it our best but it turned out that our best was not good enough and so having tasted victory, we are not going to relent. We want to keep on pushing until to the end,” Obado said. On Kenya’s chances against a side that has taken the qualifiers by storm, Obado said they will not underrate them and will once again give the match the seriousness it deserves. “Singapore has proved that they are here for a reason. They have shown us that they are worthy competitors and are ready to do what it takes to get to the next level. I am sure they will get into the match with a lot of confidence especially after beating Scotland,” he said. A lot of hope will be put on the top order to do the work for the Maurice Odumbe’s boys. In the all their three matches, the top order has failed to build up good partnerships. This has exposed the middle order which has not lived to the expectation of the team either. The bowlers have utilised the conditions that have favoured spinners, making their opponents work for runs. An improved performance from the seam line up of Elijah Otieno, Nelson Odhiambo and Lucas Oluoch will do so much justice to Kenya’s fortunes in the match and the tournament at large, if they can do their work early in the inning.