National women’s volleyball team head coach Paul Bitok is targeting an advisory and consultancy role at the Kenya Volleyball Federation. Re-affirming his commitment to the national women’s volleyball team a day after returning home from the FIVB World Cup in Japan, Bitok revealed his change of vision. Bitok, who was handed the team on a caretaker capacity two months ago, led Malkia Strikers to a second from last finish in the 12-team showpiece. “As we move forward and pending discussions with the federation on my role in future, I would like to extend my collaboration in a number of ways beyond coaching. As I shift vision for the team, it is my goal to venture into a more advisory role, especially in sports management and consultancy," said Bitok. “Through policy influence and technical advisory, I would be better placed to aid the team in various aspects and at age-group levels. Volleyball development in Kenya needs a multi-faceted approach and I believe I could be of great use in this,” continued Bitok, a former Kenya Commercial Bank (women) coach. The tactician is positive the shift will better prepare him for a more leadership role within KVF and sport's management in general. Returning home after his 10-year tenure in charge of volleyball development in Rwanda, Bitok recognises that stabilising a team is a gradual process. Before he chats the way forward regarding his future at KVF, Bitok has offered his expertise in all facets of developing the sport. Meanwhile, the former Kenya international applauded the girls for braving the stiff competition and putting up a good show in Japan and especially being the top-ranked African nation at the World Cup. He said: “I would like to commend the resounding effort of our national team. While the global stage was tough, we did not falter on our position as the African queens." The team now shifts focus to the 2020 Olympic qualifiers and Bitok admits that the task ahead is demanding and they embark on extensive groundwork. “A lot lies ahead of us and it requires enormous preparation. As we set our sights on the 2020 Olympics, I would like to affirm my commitment and support for the Kenya national team on any given day,” intimated Bitok.