Three officers at Kayole police station and a Cameroonian suspected of violent robbery in Eastleigh were detained for  five days pending investigations. The four were arrested by Pangani detectives after they allegedly robbed two men of $60,000 (Sh6 million). Wilson cheruiyot, Daniel Kipkorir, Alex Kandie and Cameroonian Esome Jean Baptistae were arraigned before Makadara principal magistrate Stephen Jalang'o. Investigating officer Isaac Kiplagat had sought  10 days to complete investigations. In an affidavit, the officer requested the court not to release the suspects on bond saying other suspects were still at large. Kiplagat added that if released they may interfere with witnesses since they are police officers. He asked the court to issue an order compelling Barwaka Lodge in Easleigh to release CCTV footage covering  October 4 to allow police carry out investigations. The incident happened at the hotel on 8th Street 2nd Avenue Eastleigh. The officers and the Cameroon are alleged to have robbed Abdullahi Hussein and Mohammed Hassan Mohamud of the cash in US dollars while at the hotel. The two complainants reported the matter to Pangani police station. The court heard the suspects were armed when they committed the offence with other two suspects who are still at large. The two other suspects, a police constable and the gang's informer, escaped. The suspects through lawyer Dennis Magara objected to being detained and requested court to release them on bond. “The investigating officer has not shown any prove that  the officers will interfere with witnesses. They are officers who can easily be tracked in case they absconded.  Please grant them lenient cash bail as police continue with their investigations”, Magara argued. The court was however urged to note that Esome was a foreigner and could abscond as police were yet to be establish his fixed place of abode. Magistrate Jalang'o while granting the orders noted that the investigating officer was dealing with a serious offence and needed sufficient time. He remanded the four at Pangani police station until October 14.