Good morning, President Uhuru Kenyatta has made 31 foreign trips since he was sworn in for his second term 14 months ago, raising questions about value for money. While the National Treasury has been implementing budget cuts,  the budget for the Presidency which comprises State House and Deputy President William Ruto's office has not been cut. Here are the other stories making headlines in the Star this morning. The family of former President Daniel Moi has said he is admitted in hospital and is alert and aware of his surroundings. Press secretary and family spokesman Lee Njiru in a statement on Tuesday said the family is displeased with the negative and alarmist reports being peddled around about Mzee Moi's health.  The National Health Insurance Fund could go broke as early as next year when payouts to service providers exceed contributions, a panel of experts has said. The payouts increased from 61 per cent in 2014 to 86 per cent last year. By end of next year, the funds' two main schemes will be making losses, the panel says. The Kenya Ferry Services management is on the spot for the continued use of three vessels declared by an international maritime body as unseaworthy 12 years ago. That's half the total number of Likoni ferries — six.  Four governors from Mt Kenya region on Tuesday appealed to President Uhuru Kenyatta to publish the BBI report to salvage the country from divisive speculations. The sharp reactions from Mt Kenya over the BBI contents signal unease in the President's backyard and the possible showdown over the report's far-reaching proposals. It is widely reported to recommend a parliamentary system of governance. It is said that if you give a man fish you feed him for a day, but if you teach him to fish you will feed him for a lifetime. This proverb couldn't be truer for a small centre in West Pokot county called Riting, known for many decades for cattle rustling that displaced residents. Riting is on the border of West Pokot and Turkana counties.