The weight of his offense suddenly dawned on him, as the magistrate ruled that he would be a state guest for the next 12 years. Peter Ombati dropped the blue and white rosary he had been holding, to dangle freely from his neck. With the same hand, he wiped his eyes before tears found their way down his brown cheeks. All his pleas and blame games had failed secure his freedom as he got slapped with a 12-year jail term for defiling a 12-year-old boy. Ombati was arrested on June 28, 2017, and accused of sodomising the boy who had sought refuge in his house in Kibera, Nairobi, after a disagreement with his mother. He denied the charges. The minor who testified in court said he ran away from home where he was staying with his mother and a younger sibling and went into hiding at the accused’s house. On the night of June 27, 2017, he woke up at night and realized that the accused had removed his shorts. They shared a bed. The boy said he had a pair of shorts under his trousers which he slept in.  He woke up and realized that the accused had penetrated him. “He then proceeded to sodomize me and I screamed in pain,” he told court. A security guard who heard the scream came to the house and cautioned Ombati to stop. In the morning, some neighbours who heard about the incident came and confronted the accused. “Members of the public become irate and threatened to lynch him,” he told court. The minor said Ombati was rescued by a village elder who took the accused and the complainant to Kilimani police station. The minor’s mother who also testified in the matter told court that his firstborn son had fled home on May 5, 2017, and efforts to trace him were futile. She had reported him missing to the chief. She said she was reunited with herson when he was informed that he had been living with a man who sexually assaulted him. A clinical officer who treated the minor confirmed that the boy had been sexually abused. In his defence, the 29-year-old Ombati claimed that he had been framed because her ex-lover, the boy’s mother, was bitter with him from a breakup in 2016. Ombati said that the woman had promised to make sure he wallows in hell for the rest of his life when he called off the relationship. He claimed that seven strong and armed men went to him and insisted that he accommodates the boy. That he had gone to the toilet on the said night when the boy tried to open the door for those men. “The next day on my way to work, I was accosted by some people who claimed that I had defiled a boy. I was then arrested,” he claimed. As he stood in the dock claiming remorse as he waited for a sentence after being convicted, Ombati shifted blame to his step-mother for his tribulations. “Ever since my dad married that woman, he gave me his back. I was mistreated and was forced to drop out of school in Form 3,” he told court. He said that even though his father is rich, he declined to pay his cash bail leaving him to suffer in custody. Nothing, from his soft eyes to the slow-paced, meticulously arranged words -could have drawn suspicion to Ombati’s character. When asked how old he was he said he was 23, causing doubt as he physically appeared older. “You seem to conveniently forget things. You told police that you were 27 years old when you were arrested back in 2017. Today, you tell me that you are 23,” the magistrate said. The magistrate, however, caught him when she probed on his birth year, a question which he took some time to think about before picking 1990. “Your defence that you were framed for the offence by the boy’s mother is not convincing as the complainant positively identified you and his evidence was corroborated by a security guard and a doctor,” said Ojoo.