The Orange party plans to hold a demonstration at IEBC headquarters on Wednesday to demand the release of the list of registered voters in Kibra constituency. The party wants a full list of voters since 2017, including the dates and centres of registration. ODM also wants the commission to provide full details of voters who have so far been registered on transfer since the seat was declared vacant. ODM chairperson John Mbadi held a press briefing on Tuesday at Parliament Buildings where he said the party expects the IEBC to update them on the manual and electronic register of voters which will be used. He said the commission has to publicly declare the number of voters in Kibra. “The IEBC has refused to learn from its past mistakes, including 2017. We demand transparency from them. Let them share with us details of their voters’ register in Kibra,” Mbadi said. The party said it wrote to the commission on September 20, requesting the updated voter register for Kibra, but it is yet to receive any feedback. The party said that despite paying Sh15,000 for processing of documents requested as directed by the commission’s acting CEO  Marjan Marjan, they have been taken round in circles. "With three weeks to the by-election, and there being no commitment by the Commission to provide the updated voter register requested by the party, we are left with no option but to question the motive behind the hide and seek game that we are being subjected to," Mbadi said. Suna East MP and ODM party director of elections Junet Mohamed the unwillingness by the IEBC to release the list makes the party doubt the credibility of the upcoming by-election. "It is this unwillingness by the IEBC to conduct elections strictly in accordance with the law that breeds suspicion and leads us to start believing rumours doing rounds of secret meetings between top IEBC officials and some Jubilee senior officials which are not limited to attempts to alter the voter register," Junet said. ODM has said the register should be ready by now as the voting date approaches. Kibra by-election will be held on November 7. The seat has attracted 24 candidates seeking to replace Ken Okoth, who succumbed to cancer. McDonald Mariga has been fronted by the Jubille party, while ODM has Imram Okoth as its aspirant. Khamisi Butichi will seek the seat using the Ford Kenya party while ANC will be banking on Eliud Owalo.