National 400m champion Emmanuel Korir has challenged the government to move with speed and develop facilities which suit the demands of sprinters. This is after the United States of America-based athlete advanced to the World Athletics Championships finals here at the Khalifa International Stadium, Doha Qatar. Korir, who had been bundled out of the 800m race after finishing third in the semi-finals redeemed himself in the one-lap race with a season's best time of 44.37 to finish behind Fred Kerley of USA. While Korir booked a place in the finals, his compatriot and former Commonwealth Youth Games silver medallist, Alphas Kishoyian, fell by the wayside in the second semi-final. For the umpteenth time, Korir highlighted the lack of facilities as the biggest undoing to the growth of sprinting culture in the country. For long Kenya has made a name in both the middle and long races but Korir feels the unexploited talents in sprints will go to waste if facilities are not set up. ‘‘The perception that Kenya cannot produce sprinters is wrong. We have talented runners. The biggest challenge we have is facilities which is not the case in the countries which are doing good in the short races," said Korir. "The government should benchmark with the best in the world and seek to upgrade the few venues we have and establish a good environment for sprinters." The dreadlocked athlete exonerated Kenyan coaches from the sorry state of the short races. "We have good coaches but there is little we can do to mitigate if we lack the facilities. It’s time the relevant authorities get out of the comfort zone and find a solution." Meanwhile, the Diamond League winning Korir is upbeat ahead of the finals slated for tomorrow where he will come against top athletes. He said he was not fatigued after unsuccessfully trying his luck in the 800m. "I know I will be taking on the best in the world. Being in the top three needs luck and personal efforts which I am looking to put in. All races are good for me and I feel strong ahead of the finals."