Kiambu commissioner Wilson Wanyanga has said surveying is banned in Sh12 billion former forest land given to squatters until an MPs' report reaches him. The Kenya Forest Service claims the 419 acres and so do 2,000 squatters who say President Daniel Moi gave them the land in 1995. The parliamentary committee on Lands is studying the situation and competing claims. Squatters questioned the legality of a business,  Annmer Survey Services, said to be charging Sh20,000 to survey the land. “We are awaiting the decision of the parliamentary committee on Lands and the report has not reached me so far as I am concerned nothing can legally take place on the ground without it,” Wanyanga said. The survey business name according to the Registrar of Companies was registered by three people on July 30 this year, the stated business being buying and selling land. The land is being claimed by four groups after KFS was ordered to surrender the land to the Kamiti Forest Squatters Association,  theMuungano wa Kamiti Group, the Kamiti Anmer Development Welfare Group and the Kamiti Development Association. The National Land Commission's Historical Land Injustice Committee led by Samuel Tororei on February 7 recommended and directed KFS to degazette the Kamiti Anmer Forest. On June 13, the Parliamentary Departmental Committee on Land directed that the land be degazetted for settlement. However, implementation is confused as a related court matter in Thika is to be determined in November. A WhatsApp group, the Kamiti Anmer Development Association with 235 members, was asked by the Star if they knew about the survey company. “Can someone make us understand why the rush to having survey matters and fees paid supersede the report that all of us have been waiting for. The findings of the verification exercise should be a priority to all,” one member-beneficiary said. Another beneficiary wrote, “Willing buyer willing seller business here, No need to negatively influence others. Those who are doubting the process are at liberty to do so and take caution at the same time, those who trust the process can proceed,” The business proprietor wrote to members of their intention to survey the land starting on October 12 and taking a maximum of five days. Beneficiaries said they were told to pay Sh20,000 to paybill number 993794. The members were informed that the chief (Maina) who is one of the proprietors would oversee the process. In July the Kiambu county administration had been accused of colluding with a cartel to subdivide the disputed land and dupe unsuspecting buyers. Kiambu deputy county commissioner Njuguna Kiarie had earlier on ordered at a baraza the formation of  Nyumba Kumi elders to best to subdivide the land. “We see some people sending text messages so that they can take over the whole subdivision of the land yet a  notice of degazettement of the forest land has not yet been published. The author of the message is neither a representative of any party nor a secretary,” said Perminus Wanjohi who ws allocated land. The parliamentary committee directed Lands CS Farida Karoney to consult with the Interior and Environment Cabinet Secretaries and the NLC to ensure the allocation of titles and allotments through alternative dispute resolution mechanisms. (Edited by V. Graham) 