Commonwealth silver medalist Samuel Gathimba hopes to better his personal best of 1:91.04 in the World Athletics Championships 20k walk race finals at Corniche, Qatar. Gathimba the sole Kenyan representative in the category will take to the streets of Corniche which is located 15 kilometres from the Khalifa International Stadium looking to better his personal best recorded in February last year. The 2016 African champion will have to put up with the gruelling highs at Corniche unlike at the stadium where temperatures are regulated thanks to the cooling system. "I hope to better my personal best this time. The weather is the biggest challenge to my target but it affects us all. I am ready for the race and fly the Kenyan flag," said Gathimba. Besides improving his personal best, the prison warder, 32, disclosed his plan of finishing within the top eight despite being the only Kenyan. "It's going to be tough but at the same time, I hope I will finish in the top eight. I did pretty well at the continental level and in Australia last year, performances I feel will motivate me ahead of the final," added Gathimba, who was born in Gitugi village in Othaya, Nyeri County Meanwhile, world 200m champion Dina Asher-Smith will win 'many more medals over the next few years', says Britain's former world and Olympic heptathlon champion Dame Jessica Ennis-Hill. Asher-Smith, 23, became the first British woman to win a global sprint title with her win in Doha. "She has got so much more to come," Ennis-Hill told BBC Sport. "She's such a talent and she's worked incredibly hard over these past few years to achieve [her success]." Ennis-Hill added: "I know she's going to pick up so many more medals over the next few years of her career." Ennis-Hill's first world heptathlon title came in 2009 and she said her "career changed at that point". "It gave me a huge sense of belief. It set me up perfectly for the next few years of my career and things went up and up from there." Ennis-Hill went on to win further world titles in 2011 and 2015, while also winning gold at the 2012 Olympics in London. "The journey has been tough for Dina and she had a tough 2017 with the World Championships being in London," added Ennis-Hill. "She had a horrible injury and was fighting to get back and be ready for those championships. She did and she performed very well under the circumstances. "To build on that the following year by winning European titles and to come back even stronger this year to become a world champion is something so special." Asher-Smith won the 200m in 21.88 seconds and American sprint legend Michael Johnson believes her victory heralds the "beginning of a new era". "Dina Asher-Smith is going nowhere. She's only 23 and has the right attitude," said Johnson, who won four Olympic and eight World Championship gold medals. "She has the talent so we'll get a chance to see that against the best." Asher-Smith came into the World Championships in fantastic form, having followed up her triple European success last year with the 100m Diamond League title and impressive performances in the 200m. She rose to a new level on Sunday when she won 100m world silver to become the first British female to win an individual sprint medal at this level since Kathy Cook's 200m bronze at the 1983 World Championships. But it was in the 200m where many thought she would end the longest wait. Her only major rival, whom she was unable to defeat this season, was the Bahamas' Shaunae Miller-Uibo - but she elected to run in the 400m in Doha because of the scheduling. It all began to fall into place when her other rivals for the title, including 100m champion Shelly-Ann Fraser-Pryce, withdrew from the competition. By the time of Wednesday's final, Asher-Smith was the clear favourite - and won by a comfortable margin in a British record time, with American Brittany Brown taking silver in 22.22 and Swiss Mujinga Kambundji bronze in 22.51.