Kenyans will have to wait a little longer to formally know the recommendations by the Building Bridges Initiative team amid jitters over some of its likely proposals. This is after State House yesterday maintained studious silence on when President Uhuru Kenyatta will be receiving the report. The BBI taskforce wound up its assignment last week. Yesterday, the team told The Star it had yet to get formal communication from State House on when to present the report to the President. “We are just waiting to be told when to go,” joint secretary Paul Mwangi said on the phone without revealing much. The Star established that the team was yesterday on standby at an office in Runda, Nairobi. "We are doing a few things here and there but essentially waiting for a call to see if we can hand over the report,” a member of the task-force told the Star on condition of anonymity. He added, "We are ready anytime." When the taskforce concluded its task last week, the team said it had informed State House the report was ready for handover. “They (BBI team) have received word that the event will be scheduled at the first available opportunity,” read a statement by joint secretaries Martin Kimani and Paul Mwangi. The team is a product of the March 9, 2018, handshake deal between President Uhuru and ODM leader Raila Odinga. There were indications the President would receive the report last week immediately the BBI team completed its work but Uhuru was on an official trip to Japan and Russia. Yesterday, State House spokesperson Kanze Dena did not respond to inquiries by The Star on when the head of state will receive the report. Speculations were rife that the President would leave the country today to Saudi Arabia. However, by yesterday evening, the trip had yet to be confirmed by State House. The political class appears sharply divided on whether the BBI proposals should be adopted. A section of politicians allied to Deputy President William Ruto has warned that they will rally against the BBI report if the team recommends an expanded executive. However, politicians allied to Uhuru and his newfound political soulmate Raila are backing the anticipated BBI proposals, saying they will set the country on the path to prosperity. (Edited by F'Orieny)