The case in which a businessman and a woman were charged with the attempted murder of former Garissa Finance executive Mukhtar Idris will resume on November 18. Two defence lawyers, led by Kiraithe Wandungi, on Thursday said they need about two hours each to cross-examine a prosecution witness. Trial magistrate Francis Andayi granted their application. They made the application after the witness — a military spy — testified. Mohamud Aden and Juliet Njoki have denied attempting to kill Idris on May 19, 2018, at his Kileleshwa residence, Nairobi. They have also denied another charge of conspiring to kill lawyer Charles Kanjama, an offence they allegedly committed between July 1 and September 27, 2018, in Nairobi. During the hearing, the military officer recounted how he drove Mohamud and Njoki to different places in Nairobi after meeting them at the Blue Hut Hotel in Ngara, Nairobi, on July 14, 2018. He drove them to South C alongside two men. On their way back, he dropped the two men near City Stadium. The duo included David Mwai who allegedly committed suicide at the Parklands police station. Mwai was allegedly hired to kill Idris and died mysteriously while in police custody. Idris was shot twice in the head outside a mosque in Kileleshwa, Nairobi, on August 19 last year. The officer informed the court that Mohamud, a former workmate at the Kenya Army, requested him to take him to the South C shopping centre where one of the two gentlemen would show him a friend who had conned him out of money. Upon arrival at the centre, they did not find the alleged conman and later returned to the Ngara hotel before proceeding to Blacky’s Restaurant in Kilimani. He also learnt that one of the two men was Mwai after stories about him were extensively highlighted by the media. During investigations, the police arrested several people, among them Garissa Governor Ali Korane and his brother, after they were mentioned by witnesses as having hired the hit squad. The governor, his brother and the others were released, a move the victim's family opposed. The family linked Idris's tribulations to his decision to question the governor's education qualifications. But Korane denied any wrongdoing. He said he had nothing to do with the shooting. According to the prosecution, the accused persons, jointly with others not before the court, attempted to kill Idris by shooting and injuring him at the White Star Restaurant along Kandara Road in Kileleshwa, Nairobi. The former county minister was immediately admitted to the Intensive Care Unit at a Nairobi hospital for some time before he was transferred to India. Mwai was described by the police as a prime suspect. At the point of his death, he was held at the Parklands police station for interrogation. He had allegedly confessed to the police that the initial plan was to kidnap and poison Idris but he took too long and instead was ordered to shoot to kill. The police say hydrogen peroxide, which was to be used, induces a heart attack or stroke. Mwai allegedly said he was approached by a former schoolmate, identified as Njoki, who told him a friend wanted a man dead. The pay was to be Sh 500,000. He allegedly told the police that Njoki said her friend had been conned out of Sh500,000 and his sister Sh6 million by the same person. It was then that they began plotting how to eliminate Idris. (Edited by F'Orieny)