 Bandits have attacked a village in Tigania East, killing one man and stealing 120 goats. The attackers suspected to be camel herders from neighbouring Isiolo county invaded Lanyiru area on Sunday night where they fatally shot Akindoo M’Imathiu and stole his 120 goats. Akindo is a relative of Trade CS Peter Munya. Akindoo, 69 from Nkathuine in Lanyiru was tethering his goats in their shed when the attackers shot him dead. Lanyiru area Chief Japhet Mwenda said Akindoo was a well-known pastoralist from the Antubaita family clan, which is Munya's clan. Tigania East DCIO Benson Omondi said officers were investigating and pursuing the attackers. Residents, CS Munya and EALA MP Mpuru Aburi have accused  MP Gichunge Kabeabea of failing to keep his promise to secure banditry-prone areas of Muthara and Karama. Resident Mugambi Esra asked the government to rearm the National Police Reservists who were disarmed, leading to increased insecurity. “People are losing lives to bandits. For how long can we continue crying over insecurity?" he asked. He said it is the role of the MP to improve security but he has failed. If he is unable to lobby for measures to curb insecurity, why can’t he support the community with manpower? Whoever ordered the withdrawal of KPR security guns is making people suffer,” he said. Two weeks ago, Peter Loolo was shot dead at Ntangilia in Tigania East by attackers said to have brought their camels in Meru county for pasture. Loolo, 60, was walking from his farm to his home when he was sprayed with bullets and died on arrival at Miathene Subcounty Hospital. Two girls, one at Lachathuriu and the other girl at Kandebene, were said to have been raped. Former Kenya Police Reservist Stanley Karithi told the Star by phone on Monday that Lanyiru, Ntangila and Kandebene the worst-hit areas. He asked why security agencies are reluctant to return firearms to reservists in Tigania. The plan, however, is for well-trained reservists to live in camps under strict command. Munya and Mpuru accused Kabeabea of inefficiency in driving out camels grazing in residents'farms, which has led to clashes. Kabeabea said he had met the security team in the constituency and raised the concern with  Interior PS Karanja Kibicho who, he said, promised to take action. He said by Monday next week, the armed herders will have been driven by fearful farmers who want to plant their crops. He said security has been strengthened and two AP camps built in the area. Munya said he will reach out to Interior CS Fred Matiang’I to ensure the herders are flushed out. In September last year, three police reservists were killed by bandits. They were shoat Kalua in Igembe Central during a retaliatory attack by bandits. TWo other reservists were injured. (Edited by V. Graham)