The challenges facing Chemelil Sugar notwithstanding, coach Francis Baraza has reiterated his commitment to the Kenyan Premier League side ahead of their Saturday clash with equally struggling new boys Kisumu All-Stars. Baraza has been away from the club since last week and was not on the bench in the Sugarmillers' defeat to Kakamega Homeboyz last weekend, fueling speculation over his future at  Got Alila. The experienced tactician, however, moved to allay concerns that he was considering ditching the financially crippled tail-enders. "I was away attending to my sick mother who was admitted in hospital and I informed the management of my situation. I plan to return to the club once my mum's situation improves," Baraza affirmed. "I know that the club is yet to resolve their financial problems but like the players,  we hope we will ride this thing out together and ensure we get results on the pitch. That is the best possible way to attract partners and well-wishers to come to our aid," continued Baraza. In his absence, former club stalwarts Charles Odero and Francis Ocholla have been in charge of the team's daily preparations. "My assistants are in charge of the team now and we are in constant contact. I believe the hard work the players are putting in training will bear fruit soon," he remarked. "The game against Kakamega confirmed the players are determined to change the results the club has got so far and I strongly believe the game against Kisumu All-Stars is the ideal game for us to get our first points," Baraza added. Having played six matches, the cash-strapped Chemelil remain rock bottom in the standings after losing all their games including the walkover they dished to Bandari a fortnight ago. All-Stars, under the tutelage of veteran coach Henry Omino, are the only other team in the 18-team league yet to win a match.'Otenga' are second from bottom with two points. "We are disappointed with where we are but I believe factors beyond our control has contributed to below-par performances but now we must roll our sleeves and deliver for our fans," concluded Baraza. Omino has equally been under pressure to lift All-Stars from the doldrums as their performance levels exhibited on their way to promotion last year have all but disappeared.