The short rains will be timely and well distributed across the country except in northwestern Kenya, the weatherman says in the October forecast. Kakamega, Busia, Vihiga, Nandi, Elgeyo Marakwet, West, Pokot, Baringo, Trans Nzoia, Bungoma, Bomet, Uasin Gishu, Kisii, Kericho,Nyamira and Migori will receive above normal rainfall. Others likely to get enhanced rain include Kisumu, Siaya, Migori, Homa Bay and Busia, Nakuru, Narok and Laikipia, the Kenya Meteorological Department said. Central Kenya counties of Nyeri, Murang'a, Embu, Meru, Tharaka Nithi, Kirinyaga, Kiambu and Nyandarua as well as Nairobi area will receive enhanced rains. The coastal region - Mombasa, Kilifi, Kwale, Tana River and Lamu are also set to receive enhanced rains. Above normal rainfall (enhanced)  will be recorded in Wajir, Garissa, Eastern parts of Marsabit, Isiolo, Mandera, Machakos, Kitui, Makueni, western Turkana and southern Samburu. Northwestern Kenya (Turkana), western Marsabit and the northern Samburu are likely to receive near-normal rainfall and above-normal rains. Meanwhile, rains continue in Kakamega, Busia, Vihiga, Nandi, Elgeyo Marakwet, West Pokot, Baringo, Kisumu, Trans Nzoia, Siaya, Bungoma, Bomet, Uasin Gishu,Kisii, Kericho, Kisumu, Nyamira, Migori and Homa Bay. Rains are expected in Turkana, western Marsabit and Samburu during the third to fourth week of October. The short rains are expected in Marsabit in the second to third week of October in the third to fourth week of the month in Mandera, Marsabit, Wajir, Garissa and Isiolo. Meru, Embu, Nyeri, Murang’a, Kiambu, Tharaka Nithi, Kirinyaga and Nyandarua will have the rains from next week. In Nakuru and Laikipia, rains will be experienced in the second to the third week of October. Narok and Kajiado are likely to experience the rains towards the end of the month. The rains start in Taita Taveta, Machakos, Kitui, Makueni and Tana River next week. It will be the same case in Lamu, Kwale, Mombasa and Kilifi. The weatherman says the rains will bring an abundance of crops in most parts of the country, especially the western and central regions. "Foliage and pasture conditions in the pastoral areas of northern, northwestern and parts of northeastern Kenya are expected to improve." The enhanced rainfall in western Kenya may, however, lead to flooding and also lightning in Kisii and Kakamega. The major river catchment areas for the country’s hydroelectric power generating dams - the Seven-Forks and Turkwel hydroelectric power generation dams - will be well supplied. The expected enhanced rainfall may trigger mudslides/landslides in parts of Rift Valley, Western and Central Kenya (upper parts of Murang’a. Slippery roads and poor visibility during rainstorms may also pose dangers to motorists and pedestrians, especially along the Kikuyu-Kinungi stretch on the Nakuru—Nairobi highway.