Sofapaka winger and Ugandan Peter Lwassa is looking to replicate Umaru Kasumba's 17-goal record posted last season in his maiden year in the Kenyan Premier League. Lwassa joined the 2009 league winners from Uganda Revenue Authority (URA) and despite being short of the KPL experience, he has revealed his intentions of claiming the 'Golden Boot'. Kasumba, who decamped to Zambian champions Zesco United at the end of last season, was Sofapaka's reliable marksman and his exit forced the club to lure the diminutive Lwassa to fill in the void. Lwassa has a goal against his name after finding the back of the net during their 2-1 win over Bandari two weeks ago at the Kenyatta Stadium Machakos. “I have set a target of 17 goals this season. It's a realistic target to start my professional journey and I also want to be the league's top scorer. Coincidentally,  it's a tally similar to that achieved by Kasumba last season. I always work hard in training and on match days which I am banking on to hit the target.” Meanwhile, the Sofapaka have maintained that they will not soften their stance on their striker John Avire who is forcing his move to Egypt. With the Egyptian transfer window already shut, Avire is stuck between a rock and a hard surface as Sofapaka declined to hand him a release letter. Sofapaka accuse Egypt's FC Tanta of unlawfully tapping the former Bandari striker who has been with them since July despite having a running contract till next year December. Sofapaka values the burly Harambee striker at Sh10 million but are willing to offer him on a Sh 3 million loan deal. Should Tanta release him, Sofapaka will file a petition to Fifa seeking compensation from the Egyptian outfit for holding onto a contracted player. “We will not listen to anything other than money or have our player back. They did not finalise the deal within the transfer window and they have no option other than to release him or pay. If they decide to release him, we will be seeking monetary compensation for they denied us his services yet he has a contract,” said club president Elly Kalekwa.