Shujaa have been pitted against Blue Bulls of South Africa, Russia Academy and Zambia in a tricky Pool 'C' of the Safari Sevens slated for this weekend at the RFUEA ground, Nairobi. Shujaa will face Zambia in their opening match before tackling Russia Academy in the afternoon. They wrap up their day's matches against Blue Bulls. Morans, who open the campaign against Uganda, are in Pool 'A' alongside Olympic bronze medallists and three-time World Sevens Series champions South Africa and Burundi. National Seven Series champions KCB are in a tough Pool 'D' alongside Spain, Zimbabwe and French Sevens' champions Seventise. Defending champions, Samurai face off South Africa's Western Province, Narvskaya Zastava and Red Wailers in Pool 'B'. The top two teams in each pool will qualify for the main cup quarterfinals while the third and fourth-placed teams will be relegated to the challenge trophy. Tournament director, Godwin Karuga, said preparations for the event are almost complete and urged fans to turn up in large numbers to cheer the Kenya teams. Karuga observed that this will be one of the most competitive Safari Sevens events in many years. "We do have a good pool of teams coming for this year's event and we have the likes of South Africa, Spain and Samurai coming it shows we will have a spectacular tournament,” he said. Karuga noted that there will be a heavy presence of Police and other government security agencies to safeguard the fans and teams at the tournament. "Preparation for the event is complete and we have spoken to the police and the county government of Nairobi with regards to security and logistics,” added Karuga. Karuga urged fans to use the mobile transport Apps to travel to the venue as parking will be limited at the RFUEA ground. “We can't accommodate all the cars at the venue and therefore we encourage fans to be dropped off as they come for the event.” The tournament received a major boost with betting firm Betika sponsoring the event to the tune of Sh5 million. There will be age grade, women's and veteran rugby to be played tomorrow at the venue. Ticket prices for the rugby extravaganza are regular Sh600 daily, VIP Sh1200, daily regular season ticket Sh 1,000 and VIP season ticket Sh2,000. Tickets at the gate will cost tegular Sh1, 000 daily, VIP sh 1,500 daily, regular season ticket Sh1,500 VIP Season Ticket Sh2,500. Entry tomorrow is free for all. 