Detectives have launched a probe into an incident where a police officer allegedly ended his own life in Ruiru, Kiambu county, on Saturday. Constable Samuel Muthoka, attached to Ruiru police station, is said to have used a rope to hang himself inside his house under unclear circumstances. The incident occurred barely a month after another cop committed suicide at the same station when his seniors allegedly recalled him from leave, denying him permission to take his child to school. Subcounty police commander Phineas Lingera said they are yet to establish the reason Muthoka who served as a driver committed suicide. A police source said the officer’s colleagues were shocked by the incident since Muthoka did not seem troubled and hadn’t expressed any frustrations. He said that Muthoka was discovered dead inside his house after he failed to turn up for duty on Saturday morning. “One of his seniors found him hanging on a rope inside his house after he failed to respond to phone calls,” he said. There is a worrying increase at the rate at which police officers end their own lives lately across the country, alongside engaging in criminal activities. Officers suicide and crime to poor terms and conditions of service. They claim that despite obtaining degrees, most of them still get poorly paid and live in deplorable conditions. “What does our employer, the National Police Commission, expect us to do? Some of us are forced into crime while others commit suicide,” a graduate police constable said. Sergeant Jane Asimitisi last week shocked the country when she decided to expose his seniors on the media. The Kakamega based police officer said she was tired of the code of silence and protocol that bars junior officers from speaking to the media. The frustrated Asimitisi said she did not care about the consequences hence spilled the bins on the media. Her video went viral prompting her bosses to respond by actions. She accused her bosses of being discriminatory, adding that they were fond of harassing their juniors and dared them to sack her. The officer has since been sent on a compulsory leave as she waits to know her fate over the video.