DCI officers have arrested a police officer believed to have been on the run after he was involved in a robbery. Constable Simon Mwaniki of the Kayole police station was nabbed on Wednesday night. Nairobi regional police commander Philip Ndolo said Mwaniki, who had been on the run since the robbery on 8th Street in Eastleigh, was arrested in Kahawa West alongside Constable Kelvin Marangu of the Kasarani DCI and civilian Martin Githinji. “Acting on intelligence leads, Pangani detectives intercepted a Toyota Caldina occupied by the three and effected the arrests,” Ndolo said. "After interrogation, PC Mwaniki led detectives to his two houses at Kayole Junction and Hurlingham [in Njiru]." Sh29,000 and $8,800, 30 bullets, 15 speed governors, forged driving licences and suspicious documents, including NTSA stamps, PSV certificates and work permits were recovered, Ndolo said. Other items were two bulletproof jackets and two green helmets. They also found five DCI personal file covers, a police station inventory book and one DCI occurrence book. Mwaniki escaped arrest after his alleged accomplices — three police officers attached to the Kayole police station and a Cameroonian — were arrested on October 3. The lot was nabbed by detectives from the Pangani police station after they robbed two victims of USD 60,000 (Sh6 million) at Barwqo Lodge, 8th Street 2nd Avenue in Eastleigh. Two other suspects, PC Mwaniki and the gang informer, reportedly escaped. CPL Wilson Cheruiyot, PC Daniel Kiokorir, PC Alex Kandie and Jean Baptiste Esome were found with USD 35,200 (Sh3,520,000). The police also recovered three pistols and 45 rounds of ammunition from the crime scene. It is believed Mwaniki had escaped with Sh2.5 million from the crime. His arrest brings to five the total number of officers arrested in connection with the robbery. All the officers are stationed at the Kayole police station. They have been detained at the Pangani police station. Ndolo said Mwaniki’s arrest had ended the search for the suspects, stating that he was the last wanted man in the case. Mwaniki and his accomplices are to be arraigned on Friday. Edited by R.Wamochie