Good morning, For the third successive year, Wajir has been named the most corrupt county, with 71.7 per cent of service seekers reporting being asked for a bribe. A new report by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission also shows that the county, led by Governor Mohamed Abdi, recorded the highest average amount of bribe paid at Sh14,354. This is almost four times the national average of Sh3,833. However, the services for which bribes were most likely to be solicited are rendered by both county and national governments. Here are the other stories making headlines in the Star this morning. ODM has put Deputy President William Ruto at the centre of an alleged plot to rig the Kibra by-election in favour of Jubilee candidate McDonald Mariga. The party yesterday told the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission, led by chairman Wafula Chebukati, of the existence of KIEMS kits at Ruto’s Karen residence. It said they are to verify registration details of Kibra voters who have been invited to the residence. Tear gas, gunshots and chaos rocked the Nairobi county assembly yesterday as embattled Speaker Beatrice Elachi made an unexpected return to office. Doors and windows were left broken and dramatic scenes played out inside the chamber as Elachi defiantly attempted to conduct house business. Assembly security had a difficult time trying to restore order as rival groups of MCAs struggled over the mace. It's just a negligible fraction of the forfeited Akasha family fortune— a few cars, a logbook, gold coins, a ledger — not the mountains of ill-gotten cash and lavish homes bought with the proceeds from drugs trafficking. The property was seized in 2014 in a raid on November 9, 2014, on the Nyali home of Bakhtash Akasha. Senators want answers from the National Treasury on undeclared Sh3 billion, which was part of the funds sourced for the Galana Kulalu project. Former CS Henry Rotich signed a credit loan agreement of Sh6.06 billion with Bank Leumi Le-Israel BM while the government co-funded the same at an additional Sh5.7 billion. As a young girl, Winnie Nekesa, 22, dreamt of how perfect her life would be when she grew up, having gone through university, falling in love, marrying and having children. But matters started to unravel when her parents divorced in 2005, and then her mother died soon after. Four years later in 2009, her father also died, leaving Nekesa and her only brother orphans.