Just a day after the Kenyan Premier League was hit with two no-shows in fixtures pitting Bandari at home to Chemelil Sugar and Tusker against Sony Sugar, former Football Kenya Federation president Sam Nyamweya has called for government intervention. Chemelil and Sony, citing financial constraints did not honour their weekend matches, the clearest indication that the league is headed for troubled times. “Kenyan football has been a source of unity and employment for hundreds of youth who would otherwise be wallowing in abject poverty,” penned Nyamweya in his appeal to President Uhuru Kenyatta. “Because of football, Kenya is today respected in Africa and the world, having produced superstars like Dennis Oliech, MacDonald Mariga, Victor Wanyama, Musa Otieno, Mike Okoth and by extension, Divock Origi. All these players have come from the Kenyan Premier League to become world-beaters.” Last week, the KPL governing council, while admitting the problems they face, reiterated their stance that the league will go on in spite of appeals from cash-strapped clubs for it to be temporarily halted as clubs search for means to meet their obligations. “We are on the verge of losing this great granary that has produced these great stars. The Kenyan Premier League is on its knees after the key supporters exited the scene due to one reason or the other. With no sponsors, the Kenyan Premier League is threatened with total collapse. The league  which has over 700 players and support staff have been left with no source of income due to the unavailability of sponsors.”Nyamweya pointed out. The former FKF president, who has hinted at the possibility of seeking to reclaim the seat now occupied by Nick Mwendwa in the FKF national polls set for December 7th, noted that it is even worse that the league, which apart from offering employment to thousands and entertainment for millions, may have to come to a halt because the clubs cannot afford the basics, including transport and meals. “I am pleading for your (President Kenyatta) assistance. It is my humble plea to you to come to the aid of our football by directing the Sports Ministry to appropriate finances from the Sports Fund to aid the KPL, National Super League and Women Premier League,” he concluded. KPL has been left with no sponsors and have indicated that this year's league winners will not get any cash prize. Neither have they brought another trophy as is the rule after Gor Mahia claimed the one they had, permanently after winning the league three times in succession. Clubs were also ordered to pay match officials from last weekend. 