Incumbent Nick Mwendwa has earned a ‘free pass’ to another four-year term as Football Kenya Federation (FKF) boss as he was the only candidate to present his nomination papers to the Electoral Board at Kandanda House, beating yesterday’s deadline for presidential aspirants. Mwendwa, who received an acknowledgement from board chairman Edwin Wamukoya, could be given the fresh mandate as early as next week should no challenge to his nomination be forwarded. “We have a three-day window to receive and dispense with complaints and appeals that might be forthcoming before we can ascertain that a candidate is unopposed,” Wamukoya said. Former Vihiga governor Moses Akaranga, Sam Nyamweya and Gor Mahia CEO Lodvick Aduda had reportedly set sights on unseating Mwendwa but all were a no show at the Goal project. In a phone call, Akaranga said he was out of town while there was no indication on their latest stance. It will not, however, be smooth sailing for Mwendwa as a petitioner yesterday obtained a hearing date at the High Court for November 20th. Thus came a day after the Sports Dispute Tribunal under the chairmanship of John Ohaga had slated November 5 as the hearing of another petition by Jared Nyauma questioning the legitimacy of the FKF Electoral Board and in particular the chairman and a member Elyna Shiveka as well as the Electoral Code. Mwendwa, however, was keen to move with full speed and continue with his mandate that began in 2016. “We have so far been taken to court on this matter three times. I urge my challengers to face me at the ballot because that is the only way they will get the authority to run football in the country,” he said after handing over his papers. Mwendwa went further to enumerate his achievements in his first term, including taking both the Harambee Starlets and Harambee Stars to the continental tournament, adding that now he is aiming even higher. “We have a Centre of Excellence with young kids who we hope will one day represent us at a World Cup at the Under-17 level. For now,  however, we aim to ensure Starlets who are playing on November 4 against Zambia in an Olympic qualifier, have all they need to prepare for the match against Malawi,” he remarked. Mwendwa also opened the doors to the interested parties to scrutinize records and documents relating to the acquisition of an OB van that ah been the elephant in the room to his administration with reports that over Sh120 million had gone to waste.