This year's eagerly-awaited national Football Kenya Federation elections will be held in 60 day's time on December 7. The timetable for the polls was released yesterday following the inauguration of the election board. Edwin Wamukoya will chair the board that also includes secretary Eunice Lumala and members Abdi Said, Elinah Shiveka and Robert Nyakundi. Wamukoya exuded confidence in the board's ability to conduct free and fair elections. He said: "Following the appointments, the board has had two meetings so far and has come up with the details of what is expected. The elections have to be carried within 60 days." "They will be guided by the Constitution of FKF with statutes from CAF and FIFA  and will hold regular briefings on the developments of the entire election process," added Wamukoya. The chair, who served in the 2016 board said the current board will not experience past challenges. "The previous board had a number of challenges which have since been resolved. We did not have a clear constitutional code of regulations by that time but now we have a good working framework." According to the acting Chief Executive Officer Barrack Otieno, Wamukoya and his team have a four-year mandate to dispense their services. Their understanding of the game and integrity can never be in doubt. "We held the Annual General Meeting (AGM) on Saturday. FKF approved individuals to take over office effective from yesterday for a four-year period. They have an understanding of football. Their integrity and professionalism cannot be questioned therefore, they will carry the mandate bestowed upon them in the best manner possible." "They will oversee the electioneering process from the national, county and sub-county elections. Please, accord them the necessary support they need for the smooth running  of their activities." According to the timetable, nomination and verification period begins on Monday next week and will end on 19th October. Nomination for National Executive Council (NEC) and Presidential aspirants has been set on 22nd while the publication of the final list of candidates is slated for November 2. County elections are set for the 23rd November culminating to the national elections two weeks later.