Masinde Muliro University has revoked a memo that threatened to stop more than 500 students who failed to sit special or supplementary exams from graduating this year. Some final year and continuing students did not sit their special or supplementary exams after the institution was closed indefinitely three weeks ago following students’ unrest. The university recalled students in a paid-up advertisement on Thursday. Fourth- and Fifth-year students were to report yesterday while first years report back today. Second- and third-year learners will report on Wednesday and Thursday respectively. Each student will be readmitted upon paying full fees and a Sh950 fine. Acting academic registrar Thomas Sakwa in a memo to students dated October 5 had said those in their final year who failed to sit the exams would not graduate and the continuing ones who did not sit their tests would not be allowed to proceed to the next class. “In absolute adherence to the Mmust Examinations Policy Act (EPA265H), only students who have satisfied the examinations board are allowed to proceed to the next class at the end of every academic year,” the memo read. It also advised continuing students who missed the exams that begun yesterday [Monday] that they would not proceed to the next class. Instead, they were required to retake courses in the new academic year. But Sakwa invalidated the memo and issued a new one, asking students in their fourth and fifth year to liaise with their deans of schools for approvals of the exams by the end of yesterday. “It is advisable that fourth and fifth-year students of the 2018-19 academic year with pending lower level special or supplementary exams liaise with the deans in line with section 2.15.2 of the examination handbook,” the second memo read. Sakwa said continuing students will be informed on how their supplementary examinations will be administered. "Lectures will commence in earnest a day after reporting and students are advised to attend classes immediately and adhere to university regulations," he said. Meanwhile, the university management has suspended 19 student leaders, who are alleged to have organised a strike three weeks ago, leading to the institution’s closure. The students have been accused of causing unnecessary tension within the students' union. The suspension letters were sent to them on Saturday. "Pursuant to Section 2.1 (b) and (c) of the Mmust rules and regulations governing the conduct and discipline of students, the 81st regular senate meeting sitting on October 2 resolved to suspend you,” the letters read. (Edited by F'Orieny)