A former police officer guilty of manslaughter for killing a credit officer in an alleged love triangle has been sentenced to six years. Leonard Kanari was found guilty of killing Christopher Muganda at Garden Estate in Kasarani, Nairobi county, in 2016. While delivering the sentence Justice Jesse Lessit said Kanari used excessive force when he shot dead the deceased who was unarmed. "The court has considered the entire evidence adduced by the prosecution in support of its case against the accused person.  Having done so, I am satisfied that a prima facie case has been established against the accused to warrant this court to find him guilty of the charge of manslaughter and convict him accordingly," Lessit ruled. Kanari, a director of Regional Royal Transmission company based in Nakuru, committed the offence on the night of May 26, 2016 at Icon Flats in Garden Estate, Kasarani, Nairobi. Eddah Kamau, the woman caught up in the love triangle, informed the court that she had been in a relationship with Muganda since 2008 and they had a daughter. She had known Kanari since 2013 but only as a close friend and business partner. He was dealing in imported concrete and wooden poles. In the judgment, the court said Kanari did not prove self-defense as he claimed. Justice Lessit further said that this was a crime of passion because the accused was found in the house of the deceased. Kanari was confronted by the deceased and the accused shot him. On the fateful night, Kanari and Kamau met at a mall on Thika Road where they shared drinks. She then allegedly asked him to drop her home, not far from the mall. Kanari allegedly carried her shopping into the house but the woman warned him not to overstay because the area was unsafe. It was alleged that Kanari was in her house for about 15 minutes before leaving. Muganda who was reportedly hiding in a poorly lit area confronted Kanari. He drew his pistol and shot Muganda before driving off. Muganda was confirmed dead at a Nairobi clinic where he was rushed with bullet wounds in his stomach. In mitigation, Kanari said he was remorseful and that he is married with three schoolgoing children.