The National Treasury has proposed an organisational structure to create new  2,117 employment opportunities as it leads onslaught against rising unemployment rate in the country. The plan will also see Chief Administrative Secretary become second in command at the ministry, with principal secretaries Treasury and State Department for Planning coming third in the pecking order. Dubbed 'The sustained social-economic transformation for job creation and shared prosperity', the plan seeks to rally both government and the private sector to create job opportunities. In the last three months, companies have sent or announced plans to declare over 2000 jobs redundant. Yesterday, flower firm Finlays said it will be closing two of its firms in Rift valley by December 25, declaring employees in those stations redundant. In the draft strategic plan covering the financial year 2018/2019 to 2022/2023, the exchequer expects to increase the number of staff to 5,210 both at the technical and administrative positions, from the current number of 3,093. This is a direct U-turn from the government's recent hiring freeze announced by Acting Treasury cabinet secretary Ukur Yatani. Last month, Yatani said the government had stopped hiring for the next three years in austerity measures to reduce the country's wage bill. Some of the positions that been proposed for additional staff include accountants to 2,044 from 1,106, representing 54.11 per cent increase. Top job groups in the ministry that have vacant positions such as general investment and portfolio management and general economic planning will absorb one director in each position. Other including the debt recording and settlement officers with only one serving official will be raised to 20. The ministry will add the number of pension officers and economists 227 and 344 from 112 and 148 staff respectively. According to the National Treasury and Planning acting Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yatani, the total estimated financial resource requirements for the plan period is Sh43.02 billion. “Some of the funds budgeted under the ministry are for strategic interventions in state corporations and carrying out government and are not available for the implementation of the Strategic Plan,” CS Yatani said. CS Yatani has said the huge difference to cover the staff recurrent expenditure will be lobbied from increased funding from the Exchequer through the MTEF budget Sector Working Groups and Parliamentary committees to increase GoK funding. “In order to facilitate the implementation of this strategic plan, the National Treasury and Planning shall pursue the following strategies including developing donor engagement framework for increased resource mobilization and efficient utilization.” The Treasury has also said it will leverage on ICT towards improving administrative efficiency. This is expected to reduce costs, thereby releasing resources to priority needs. The Strategic Plan for the period 2018/19 – 2022/23 fiscal years serves as the Fourth Generation Strategic Plan and the successor of the Third Generation Plan that covered the period 2013/14-2017/18. The former plan focused on the implementation of key projects and programmes in order to lead to economic transformation. “However, implementation of the plan was faced with several challenges including shortfalls in revenue collection due to drought and political shocks leading to austerity measures, slow-down in global economy, and inadequate staffing levels among others,” CS Yatani said.