A nurse specialising in resuscitation of the critically ill was arrested on Thursday with the decomposing body of her 13-year-old son in her house in South B. Hannah Khahugani, 41, had been staying with the body for at least two weeks at the Kifaru apartments, neighbours said. She had invited church members to her home to sing and praise God, they said. Police said they were yet to ascertain if Khahugani, a PhD student,  belongs to a cult. She will undergo a psychiatric assessment. The University of Nairobi lecturer is a specialist in post-resuscitation care of the critically ill. This involves optimising ventilation and circulation and preserving organ and tissue function. Police boss Philip Ndolo told the Star on Thursday that they received a tip from neighbours about a foul smell emanating from the house. They broke in and found the body of Emmanuel Inyama wrapped in a blanket in the sitting room. The mother told them the boy had fallen and died in her sixth-floor apartment. "She said she did not take him to hospital because she does not believe in hospitals," Ndolo said. She was taken to Industrial Area police station. The body was taken to City Mortuary. "My officers tried knocking but nobody opened the door," he said. After five minutes, they broke in. "The woman by that time was hiding in the kitchen. It is like she heard us breaking in and rushed to hide." Khahugani was a new tenant. Ndolo said the boy was studying in a private school where he was to sit his KCPE exam. "Teachers tried to call Khahugani because they were worried about the boy who was to prepare for exams but Khahugani never took calls from the school," a neighbour, Mary, said. "She had been washing and hanging clothes belonging to the boy for the past two weeks but then one day she stopped doing the chores," Mary said. "After two or three days, she did not leave her house nor did the son leave the house. But then we became suspicious." Neighbour Selline said Khahugani has been inviting people from her church to the house. "We normally heard people singing and praising God from our window. But we did not know what was happening," she said. Khahugani has been active in training health care providers on emergency courses such as neonatal resuscitation, basic and advanced life support. Her research interests are in neonatal and obstetric emergencies, adult intensive care and resuscitation. She is in the final stages of her research that started in 2013.