Nairobi county government has been urged to introduce hourly parking fees to raise revenue and decongest the city. The proposal is contained in the Public Transport bill sponsored by Eastleigh North MCA Osman Adow. He urged his colleagues to support it. “There were two things that were considered in the bill, specifically on parking. One is on raising revenue and the other is decongesting the city. In nutshell, we are trying to kill two birds with one stone. Those who will stay for a short time will pay less. That will be the logical thing to do,” he said. Nominated MCA Mbugua Kabiro said hourly parking fees would allow traders to do business without incurring hefty expenses. Last month, the assembly passed the Nairobi County Finance Bill, 2019, giving City Hall the go ahead to charge Sh400 parking fees daily in the central business district. Kabiro said a huge number of motorists lose when they pay Sh400 parking fees but only spend two to three hours in the CBD. “In future, I wish we get hourly ratings for parking because some of us come to town for a very short period. You pay Sh400 yet you would have paid Sh100 or Sh50 at a private parking for the same,” he said. Roysambu MCA Peter Warutere suggested that having parking metres at strategic points within the CBD and charging according to the time one takes would be fair to motorists. "In the past, Nairobi had metres placed at strategic locations. If we introduce this it can work and I believe this is an issue that the budget committee and the executive can sit down and deliberate on. This is a service that we are selling and it must be attractive so that when we are doing enforcement, we will get value for money," he said. Last year a parking management report released by Institute for Transportation and Development Policy recommended that City Hall introduces a Sh60 hourly parking fee in the CBD to increase revenue. The report showed the county loses millions of shillings in revenue every year because of the ‘fixed’ fees. It said 19 per cent of all vehicles parked in the CBD do so for eight hours or more and occupy more than a half of all the available parking slots downtown. This, the report said, denies other motorists spaces to park their cars thus revenue losses to the county government and can only be cured by the introduction of parking pricing. Another audit report released by the Auditor general indicated only a third of all vehicles parked in the city in 2016-17 financial year paid parking fees. This led a Sh300 million loss in revenue. A total of 1,305, 440 vehicles were parked, of which only 402,401 ( 31 per cent) paid the requisite parking fee of Sh300 per day.