One of the greatest challenges in leadership is the effective communication of vision. You need to be skillful to transfer the picture in your mind to others so that they believe and run with it. A vision is a value proposition and every leader needs people to subscribe to their vision for it to work. For this to occur, strategic communication must be deployed. Leaders can learn how to properly communicate their vision and these four tips can help. Talk your Vision: One easy way to communicate your vision is: talk. Effective leaders invest time in telling their vision. They find ways to clearly explain what they see. Talk means that you are passionate about your vision; talk is proof of your conviction. If you’re not talking about it, you probably don’t believe it strong enough. To teach your vision, the people in your environment must consistently hear you speak about your passion. Act your Vision: Every vision has governing principles; these are the laws that make the vision work. Effective leaders make these principles their lifestyle. Leaders act their vision when they live by its governing principles – and when leaders act their conviction, people see how the vision works and the results that the vision can produce. These then cause them to adopt the vision as a lifestyle. This chain reaction begins when leaders act their vision. Here, acting the vision equals teaching the vision. Transfer your Vision: It is important for leaders to take the time to transfer their vision by teaching it. Bring people together, have them sit and teach them, let them ask questions and have an exchange based on your vision. Make your vision a class and let people take notes. Effective leaders teach their vision in different ways: they create courses, write books on their vision, etc. They invest the time to properly educate people on their vision. Entrust your Vision: As you teach your vision, assign responsibilities to your team based on your vision – let them practice your vision. Let them make mistakes, fail and learn as they participate in your vision. Give people the opportunity to grow in your vision. The more they practice your vision, the better they get at it. The goal of entrusting your vision to people is to ensure that the vision grows. Growth will occur because eventually, they will start to teach others and share your ideas. That’s how you know your vision is mature – people teach others what you believe. Email: smpamugo@gmail.com