She appeared in court smiling and confident and from a distance, one could easily predict that she had a message to inform the court. Then when her turn came, Beatrice Amumbi revealed to the court that she shared the cash she stole from her employer with the investigating officers from the Lang’ata police station. “The officers from Lang’ata police station who claimed to be from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations told me that they got information on how I stole $28,000 US dollars and ordered that we share for me to get freedom,” she said. Amumbi added that by the time they arrived at her house in Kibera, she had only $100  in her pocket. “In my pocket, I had  $100 and I handed the cash to them,” she told Kibera senior principal magistrate Esther Boke. She said the officers then told her to leave the area and go to her rural place in Kakamega to prevent her future arrest as the matter was over. “They took the cash and commanded me to go to my rural home in Kakamega and I knew this issue was over until I was arrested again,” she added. Amumbi was testifying in a case in which she is charged alongside Mathew Namasaka and George Naswa with violently robbing Martha Mabior of her Sh70,000 mobile phones. They are also charged with another count of violently robbing Margret Garang of her gold necklace, earrings and Samsung serial number, among other items. They denied the charges and were granted bond. The magistrate directed the case to proceed on October 29. The magistrate directed the case to proceed on October 29 John Opiyo, a Sudanese military officer, yesterday told the court that he left his home to pay the complainant a visit and on reaching her gate, he keyed the bell alarm with no response and after several attempts, he realised the alarm had been tampered with. “I went ahead to open the gate and on touching the gate door, it opened after I applied little force on it and I felt something bad had happened,” he said. He said that upon entering the homestead, he saw someone, who was tied with a rope upside down, cry for help. “I saw Jack whose hands had been tied together with his legs crying for help. I ran to rescue him and upon reaching there, he informed me he was tied by two gangsters armed with a pistol who were on their way to Margret’s house,” he said. Opiyo said that being refugees in Kenya, they live in a dilemma. “I joined the army in the 1980s when I was 16 and survived several attacks. We have always followed every proceeding in this case, including mentions.” He said Beatrice had called him several times to the Lang’ata prisons and threatened his life. Opiyo told the court that he was in the company of investigating officers when they arrested the accused person. “We were a team of five and when we reached Beatrice’s house, we left two officers at the gate with the vehicle that we came in as we entered the homestead. Then the officers we left at the gate saw a lady who was running away ... and on interrogating her, they realised she was Beatrice, one of the accused persons they were looking for,” he said. Opiyo said he had explained to the officers how Beatrice looked like. “Beatrice laughed with mouth wide open and one of the police officers saw her broken front teeth, which was among the characteristics I gave them. They called me and on arrival, I confirmed she was the one." He said Beatrice requested the officers to allow her to go for a short call. “The officers ordered her to urinate in while being held by one police. They took her to Butere police station." Margaret  Garang, who is Beatrice's former employer, testified that on May 15, 2018, she, together with her husband, left her compound in Westlands, Nairobi, to attend a funeral ceremony for her nephew. While at the funeral she received a call from her cousin John requesting her to return home as soon as possible as her house had been broken into. “I immediately left the funeral. On reaching home, I entered the bedroom and realised that the money I had left under my bed was missing ,” she said. “My two mobile phones, gold chain and a camera were stolen too." She said she had left her house girl in the house by the time she attended the funeral. “Beatrice went in the servant quarters where one of the servants gave her the story on how they were attacked by three men armed with pistols, tied them with wires before breaking the house. Immediately, police officers were called and investigations started,” she said. She said Beatrice was arrested in Kakamega and booked at Butere police station before she was transferred to Nairobi. Other suspects were arrested and an identification parade was done.