Sofapaka assistant coach John Baraza believes the Sh35million boost from their shirt sponsor, Betika, will be key in transforming the former champions into title contenders this term. The 2009 Kenyan Premier League champions saw their previous Sh15m deal with the betting firm increased by more than double yesterday. Sofapaka have had an arguably dismal start of life in the current season bagging just two wins in five matches to sit ninth with seven points. Lack of sufficient funds to run the club and transition under Portuguese coach Divaldo Alves and the exodus of senior players has been blamed for the poor run. However, Baraza, a league-winner with the club, has welcomed the financial upgrade which he notes will inject fighting spirit within the playing unit. The former Kenyan international, who served as head coach last season after American Melis Medo quit citing personal reasons, also sounded the warning bells to their opponents. “It's a morale-boosting development and the boys have their work cut out. It makes our work easier as the technical bench as it's natural that when players see their welfare is taken care of, they will work even harder," said Baraza. "Our objective has always been winning the league and with the sponsorship, we have more energy and from our subsequent matches the difference will be there for all to see.” Sofapaka entered into a lucrative Sh50 million deal with the betting firm in January 2017 after a nearly a disastrous 2015-2016 season which saw the club narrowly cheat relegation. The deal had an instant impact as they finished second behind Gor Mahia but things took the wrong turn last year after the stringent betting tax rules by the government saw the company drop it down to Sh15m. Yesterday, the firm which is regarded as one of the biggest in the country after the closure of SportPesa and Betin, seized the moment and extended their terms with the club for a year. Club President Elly Kalekwa said the amount will half-way cater their expenditure and exuded optimism of landing yet another deal to enable them run the outfit smoothly. “We are pleased they have increased the amount which will meet our costs albeit half of it. We are still knocking doors with an eye of landing another deal.” Sofapaka have a 12 month deal with a Singapore-based company, 3D holdings.