Former lawmaker Elizabeth Ongoro has been ordered to present herself to EACC over a non-existent school project which saw taxpayers lose Sh 48 million when she was Kasarani MP. Already two suspects who served in the Kasarani NG-CDF tender committee have been arrested over the ghost multi-million project. The two are former Kasarani District Development Officer Kefa Omanga Omoi and ex-Kasarani CDF Committee member Jecinta Akoth Opondi. The anti-graft agency has directed that the former lawmaker and 18 others present themselves to sleuths at EACC’s headquarters at Integrity Center immediately. EACC has been conducting probe into embezzlement of Sh 48,907,826 constituency funds and blatant abuse of procurement laws by officials of Kasarani NG-CDF. “The Commission established that the award of the contract for the construction of the school was made without due regard to the procurement laws, the school does not exist and that payments were made to different individuals and companies associated to the National Government Constituency Development Fund patron and committee members for services not rendered,” EACC CEO Twalib Mbarak said in a statement to newsrooms. “The file was submitted to Director of Public Prosecutions who upon review has granted consent to charge 26 individuals and entities with the following offenses.” Also to record statements include; Mwalim Rashid, Ruth Kanini Kitonyi (former Kasarani District development Officer), Silvan Onyango, Pamela Mudha, Nashon Odongo (former Nairobi provincial accountant), Claperton Ouda, Douglas Parshet, Vitalis Obunga Ogingo (former regional accountant, Nairobi), Fredinand Masha Kenga, Maricus Otieno and Peter Aming. Others include Maurice Orongo, William Ogutu Weda, James Juma Ochieng, Peter Ongeyo, Charles Owino, John Obonyo owinga and James Miruka Dola. They will all face nine charges of conspiracy to commit offence of corruption, misappropriation of public funds, abuse of office, engaging in a project without prior planning, unlawful acquisition of public property and willful failure to comply with the law relating to procurement. DPP will also be pressing additional charges of dealing with suspect property and conflict of interest.