Auctioneers have seized property and office equipment of the Postal Corporation of Kenya for breach of contract. The firm, popularly known as Posta, failed to pay a businessman more than Sh20.3 million. Posta says it receives funding from the government and it should be given time to raise the money. Mbusera Auctioneers advertised property including office equipment, furnishings and motor vehicles at the General Post Office Building. The auctioneer, R. W. Mbuthia, attached 700 office chairs valued more than Sh550,000, 500 computers valued at more than Sh500,000, a motor vehicle valued at Sh700,000 and assorted office equipment. The warrant of attachment was received under protest by the Post Master General on Tuesday. A deputy registrar at the commercial division of the High Court has directed the auctioneers to return the executed warrant by December 4. Posta had leased Gerald Kamondo Njuki, trading as Geka General Supplies, two acres in Thika for five years but the parastatal failed to honour its part of the deal. Geka had applied for the plot to build stalls and a garage at a monthly rent of Sh1,846,200 for five years and six months. The premises were never availed and after several demands from Njuki, Posta charged him with the responsibility of removing the existing tenants. Njuki, through lawyer Titus Koceyo, sued the parastatal for breach of contract seeking to be paid Sh205 million but the amount was reduced to Sh20 million. High Court Commercial Division judge Rachel Ng’etich reduced the amount on grounds the proprietor did not incur any expenses in developing the plot. The award to Njuki will attract interest at court rates. Posta was also directed to pay litigation costs. The judge said Geka was expecting a monthly income of Sh3,360,000 from renting out the stalls and leasing the garage to car mechanics. However, Posta has filed an appeal to challenge the award saying the trial judge erred before it established the authenticity of the letter of offer and its execution.  Edited by R.Wamochie