The Kenyan marathon team at the World Athletics Championships will draw inspiration from Ruth Chepngetich when they take to the road in the humid Doha Corniche at midnight. Chepngetich opened Kenya's medal account with a gold in the women's marathon held on the first day of the championships a week ago. Unlike the air-conditioned Khalifa International Stadium, Corniche is relatively warm and humid. Kenya will be represented by the quartet of Berlin Marathon runner up Amos Kipruto, 2010 World Junior 10000 bronze medalist Paul Lonyangata, Laban Korir and defending champion Geoffrey Kirui. Ahead of the 42km race, Kipruto said the performance by the ladies team motivated them to defy the weather and harvest more medals. The Kapsabet-based long distance runner said their eyes are trained on finishing on the podium. “We have been preparing for the race knowing that we will run in humid conditions. As a team, we are keen to replicate the prowess and endurance depicted by the ladies, who did a wonderful job. The weather challenge cuts across and our focus will be finishing on the podium.” On the same day, Kenya stands to enrich their medal tally when defending champion Hellen Obiri leads the trio of World U-18 3000m champion Lilian Kasait and Commonwealth silver medalist Margaret Chelimo in the 5,000m finals. Obiri showed class in her semifinal where she crossed the line ahead of the pack and will be out to make amends after finishing a distant fifth in her debut in the 10,000m. Tomorrow, 2018 World U-20 10,000m champion Rhonex Kipruto will make his debut at the worlds, although in the senior level. The 2017 National Cross Country champion revealed his ambition of announcing himself at this level with a medal. He will enjoy the company of Commonwealth bronze medalist Rodgers Kwemoi and 2018 World Half Marathon silver medalist Alex Oloitiptip. “I am prepared for the race alongside my colleagues. It’s a good challenge to represent the country at this stage and I am looking forward to claim at least a medal.” 2015 World Champion Julius Yego will be seeking his second title in the javelin.