The Ministry of Education on Monday began the relocation of 800 pupils displaced a week after the collapse of a building at Precious Talent Academy. Eight children were killed when a classroom in the school collapsed last week. Education CS George Magoha announced the closure of the school on Thursday as and a crackdown on institutions with substandard infrastructure. However, the transfers commenced at a slow momentum with the three schools selected for the relocation only registering 150 admissions by the end of the day. The schools are Ngong Forest, Riruta Satellite and Jamhuri primary schools. The plan was finalised over the weekend, with parents and pupils from all three schools being updated on Sunday evening. Details from the ministry indicate that the government will provide the learners with textbooks as they are admitted. The government is also set to deploy additional teachers to the institutions to balance the expected population surge. By Monday, six new teachers had been received at Ngong Forest Primary School. However, news of the move has elicited criticism from members of the school community questioning if the alternative institutions are the best course of action. Parents who spoke to the Star indicated aversion to the ministry's choice of institutions, noting the schools are far from where they live and could be a recipe for insecurity. Mercy Muthoni, whose child was in Grade 3 at Precious Talent Academy, raised concern of her child's security citing the location of Ngong Primary–the nearest institution to them–as it is in the forest. "For a child to walk a 3km distance to get to school at 7am they need to leave the house at around six. That exposes them to insecurity," Muthoni told the Star on Monday. The parents want the government to retract the revocation of the school license so that the learners can take classes under a tent as promised by a section of elected leaders last week. Another parent, Esther Mugo, asked for an alternative for younger children, noting the condemned school was preferred for its proximity. “We value all of our students and, while older students are in a position to adapt to change more readily, it doesn’t mean they’re not also vulnerable and deserving of the same consideration,” she said. So far, four schools have been closed since the Precious Talents tragedy last Monday. Edited by R.Wamochie