MPs have called for the scrutiny of title deeds to land to privately held land that the Kenya Ports Authority claims. KPA management led by MD Daniel Manduku told the National Assembly's Public Investments Committee on Saturday that they are currently securing seven parcels that had been grabbed. They said they need help to secure more land. Manduku has complained of difficulties in recovering Sh500 million land in different parts of the country. They include a parcel where the Kenya Ferry Services had its headquarters and where the KPA plans to transfer its headquarters. Currently, their headquarters are inside the Mombasa Port. PIC chair Abdulswamad Nassir said there is a risk of losing the property if KPA does not swiftly secure repossession. One of the companies on the committee's radar leased a piece of prime land at Kipevu near the oil storage tanks in Changamwe. KPA says the company has The company, according to KPA, has Ethiopian and Kenyan directors but they have gone missing after paying for the lease. KPA has been trying to give them notice of lease termination but they are "nowhere to be seen", Nassir said on Saturday at the English Point Marina,. “The offices that they had listed are not in existence,” Nassir said. PIC is investigating the company and many others said to have fraudulently acquired prime land belonging to the authority. The committee has asked the KPA to furnish them with the CR12 forms that provide listings of all directors and shareholders. “Failure for them to do that, we will write to the Registrar of Companies and we will be able to get that,” Nassir said. The company, whose details cannot be revealed at this time, paid for the lease —which has not been released but it is thought to be 99 years. The company has not been active since then. MPs say this is one of the tricks developers use to acquire prime property, especially with the advent of the SGR and improvement of the Mombasa Port. KPA Board and Legal Services general manager Addraya Dena said they will serve the company with notice of termination of the lease through the media. Nassir advised the authority to gazette the notice to avoid legal repercussions. “It is a very prime piece of property with the development of the port. It is very vital,” the Mvita MP said. The committee wants to name and shame the directors of companies that have been allocated KPA land in Mombasa, Kilifi, Malindi and Kisumu. The parcels are said to be occupied by squatters but MPs have rejected the term ‘squatters’. The Nassir-led team has asked for the title deeds that KPA holds and those that have been issued to other people for the land owned by the authority. Nassir said most of the KPA land was irregularly given out in the mid-90s "when the Commissioner of Lands was a very powerful person and would issue land at the stroke of a pen". Shinyalu MP Justus Kizito and his Wajir East counterpart Rashid Amin said the list of those who have acquired KPA land contains the Who's Who of the Kenyan business community. Nassir said after due diligence is done, the committee will summon all those with land that KPA claims and they will be required to explain how they got the parcels. Edited by R.Wamochie