A Kenyan teacher Erick Ademba is among three honoured with a continental prize on Wednesday, for remarkable contribution in the education. The African Union (AU) on Wednesday awarded the three African teachers with the first Continental Teacher Prize for their outstanding performances. The award includes a recognition certificate a cash prize of Sh1,000,000. Ademba, is a Mathematics and Chemistry teacher at Asumbi Girls High School in Homabay County. Also honoured at the event are Augusta Lartey-Young, a teacher from Presbyterian Boy’s Secondary School in Ghana, and Gladys K., from a school in Uganda. Erick Ademba was feted in the inaugural African Union Continental Teacher Prize event in Addis Ababa. He was also the 1 st runners up of the Teacher of the Year (TOYA ) awards in Kenya in 2018. The African member states of African Union were required to nominate two outstanding teachers (Male and Female) and submit their names to AU in Addis Ababa. The Teachers Service Commission nominated Ademba together with Damaris Mwende of Mbooni Boys who was also the Ist runners up of ICT Teacher of the Year (ITOYA) 2018. The two teachers competed against 50 other nominated teachers from the five regions in Africa. The nominees were required to submit a record of their personal teaching philosophy and achievement since joining the teaching profession. TSC CEO Nancy Macharia said the win was a confirmation that Kenya was the home of best teachers. “Coming just months after Peter Tabichi emerged the best global teacher, we are proud of the high calibre of staff that are attending to our children in Kenya,” she said. Dr Macharia said the entire commission congratulated Mr Ademba and will do all in its power to ensure his professional development was enhanced. “We are proud that Mr Ademba is now the first teacher to win the Continental Teacher Prize award,” Macharia said. The Teachers Prize will be a means for demonstrating respect for teachers and the teaching profession, by encouraging and celebrating the committed teachers in Africa. It seeks to raise the status of teaching, and inspire the best possible candidates to join the teaching profession.