President Uhuru Kenyatta on Sunday awarded world marathon record holder and Olympic champion Eliud Kipchoge with the Elder of the Order of the Golden Heart of Kenya. The former track master made history on October 12 when he became the first man to run a 42km race in under two hours at the INEOS1:59:50 Challenge in Vienna, Austria, where he timed 1:59:40. "In honour of all the heroes, past, present and future I wish to invite and recognise  Eliud Kipchoge with the  the Order of Elder of the Golden Heart," Uhuru said. Orders, decorations, and medals of Kenya are awarded by the President of Kenya "in recognition of outstanding or distinguished services rendered to the nation in various capacities and responsibilities The awards are made by the president upon the advice of a National Honours and Awards Committee in the president's office. Individuals are nominated for the  awards by district committees, government ministries, religious organisations, non-governmental organisations, individuals and others. The awards are The Order of the Golden Heart of Kenya. This category consist of  1st Class – Chief of the Order of the Golden Heart of Kenya (C.G.H.), 2nd Class – Elder of the Order of the Golden Heart of Kenya (E.G.H.) and the 3rd Class – Moran of the Order of the Golden Heart of Kenya (M.G.H.). The second category is the Uhodari Medal followed by The Order of the Burning Spear. The Order of the Burning Spear also comprises of 1st Class – Chief of the Order of the Burning Spear (C.B.S.), 2nd Class – Elder of the Order of the Burning Spear (E.B.S.) and 3rd Class – Moran of the Order of the Burning Spear (M.B.S.). Other categories are the The Order of the Grand Warrior of Kenya, The Distinguished Conduct Order, The Distinguished Service Medal, The Silver Star of Kenya and the Head of State's Commendation (H.S.C.) which includes Military Division and Civilian Division. Of these awards, the Chief of the Order of the Golden Heart of Kenya is the highest honour in Kenya. As of 2009 the award has been bestowed on 198 people since Kenyan independence. Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni and Aga Khan are among the prominent recipients of the award. Currently, President Uhuru Kenyatta as the head of State holds the position of Chief of the Order of the Golden Heart of Kenya. On 20 April 2017, President Uhuru Kenyatta awarded the Elder of the Order of the Golden Heart to Syedna Mufaddal Saifuddin. Syedna is the Religious Head of the Dawoodi Bohra Community. Other prominent leaders who have won the award include, Mombasa Governor Ali Hassan Joho. Joho during Jamhuri day in 2018, was honoured with EGH second class in recognition of distinguished and outstanding services rendered to the nation. The Mombasa county boss was awarded alongside eight governors. They include Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua, Kirinyaga's Anne Waiguru, the late Bomet governor Joyce Laboso, Mutua is serving as Machakos county boss for the second term. Over the last six years, Governor Mutua has distinguished himself as a pragmatic advocate of the poor people, setting up pro-poor initiatives that help in poverty reduction and wealth generation. Anne Waiguru won the Kirinyaga seat in 2017. The Supreme Court in August threw out Narc Kenya party leader Martha Karua’s appeal against a lower court’s verdict that upheld her  victory. Laboso died at the Nairobi Hospital in July after battling cancer. She became the first female governor of Bomet after winning a tough battle against Isaac Rutto in 2017. She subdued her detractors who tried to use her marriage to a man from a different region to sabotage her governor bid. Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandagor Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos Siaya  Governor Cornell Rasanga Narok Governor Samuel Tunai Embu Governor Martin Wambora According to the National Honours Act, those who merit the decoration include; a person who exhibits exemplary qualities, or achievements of heroism, patriotism or leadership, one who has made an exemplary contribution to the country in the economic, scientific, academic, sports, journalism, business, security or other fields.