Good morning, A House team has put Deputy President William Ruto on the spot for commissioning a Sh5.3 billion 'empty' Lower Nzoia Irrigation Project without involving the parent ministries. On June 7, the DP went ahead to launch the irrigation project that cuts across Siaya and Busia counties at a time the line ministries claimed the whole project was a mere skeleton and not ready for the launch presided over by Ruto. The controversial project is aimed at boosting rice production and preventing destructive floods. It covers Ugunja, Alego Usonga and Budalang’i constituencies. Here are the other stories making headlines in the Star this morning. Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa has dismissed reports she is backing ODM aspirant Imram Okoth for the Kibra by-election. Jumwa told the Star that ODM leader Raila Odinga went into her office unannounced and introduced Imram to her. The Malindi MP went on to say she didn't know who Imran was. "I was not even aware of ODM having a meeting. Raila invited me to greet Imran and I accompanied him. I didn't even know him. That is all and whatever is being spun is not true," Jumwa told the Star. Sarah Wairimu's lawyer, Philip Murgor, and deputy DPP Catherine Mwaniki on Tuesday engaged in a war of words over his status at the DPP. The widow of slain Dutch businessman Tob Cohen, Sarah, failed to take a plea for the second time following the contention. Last week when she appeared in court, Cohen's family lawyer Cliff Ombeta opposed Murgor's representation of Wairimu arguing that he was still a public prosecutor since his gazette notice had not been revoked even though he resigned. The UK is now pushing for mediation between Kenya and Somalia over the maritime dispute. Through it’s High Commissioner to Kenya, Jane Marriot, Britain said it would like to see Kenya and Somalia resolve the maritime border dispute amicably. Marriott said dialogue remains key to solving the maritime dispute between the two nations. The National Treasury has hailed the proposed debt limit in absolute figure of Sh9.1 trillion as a solution to rising public debt in Kenya. In a statement to media houses yesterday, the exchequer said the current debt ceiling set at 50 per cent to GDP is a moving target that fails to provide adequate controls and oversight on growth of public debt. The changes are contained in proposed amendments to the Public Finance Management (National Government) Regulations, 2015. Some 90km away from Nairobi, past the dusty country town of Naivasha, the lake that bears a similar name emerges from the thicket of cacti and sand olive trees. It is fringed by grassy banks and thick papyrus, providing a home to more than 400 hippos, some seen in bloats lying half-submerged in the water. But there's more to this lake than its beauty and the large bloats of hippo.