Elly Ajowi’s semifinal defeat at the hands of Kibra’s Joshua Wasike at the fourth leg of the Boxing Federation of Kenya League at Nanyuki has sparked debate over the former’s capability of making the national team. Technical official Samuel Otieno aka Oti Hitman said Ajowi’s defeat was quite unexpected and shocking. “He (Wasike) is a boxer with a lot of potential in terms of punching ability. He even went on to win the final match against (Peter) Abuti of KDF though he needs a lot more in terms of tactical approach,” quipped Otieno. Former Kenya international Duncan Kuria aka Sugar Ray said: “I didn’t watch the fight but I think when Ajowi has trained well, he is unstoppable. Ajowi had not trained. At the moment, I don’t think the winner can replace him in the national team though if he wins the last leg of the league in Kisumu next month, he will no doubt be in contention for a place in the national team.” National team coach Benjamin Musa defended the Police’s heavyweight All Africa Games bronze medalist (Ajowi), saying it was just a bad day in the office. But Musa added that it is a wake-up call for all national team boxers and warned them against complacency. “I was following Ajowi’s match with keen interest. I still believe Ajowi is the better boxer of the two. However, I realised he (Ajowi) lacked the requisite match fitness and his physical conditioning was somewhat wanting from the first gong,” said Musa. Asked about the Kibra boxer, Musa went on: “He is an uncut diamond which needs to be polished more. He is still a strong boy who needs tactical training if he hopes to join the national team. Ajowi was just unfit but again it’s a wakeup call to all top boxers that they must uphold considerable amounts of discipline and match fitness. I think some boxers have become complacent and this isn’t a good sign for the future.” Musa added that the leg in Nanyuki was a good build-up for the Olympic 2020 national trials whose dates will be announced soon. Senegal will host the Tokyo Olympic qualifiers in February next year. The Nanyuki was part of the build-up for the national trials. “It is always a good feeling when boxers fight it hard for points. We will keep assessing the boxers and advise their technical staff accordingly,” Musa added. Ajowi was one of the three Police who suffered upsets along with All Africa Games silver medalist Shaffi Bakari (flyweight) who lost to Mohammed Hussein of Thika in the semis and lightweight Ethan Maina in the finals. Shaffi was left to rue an old arm injury, which cost him gold medal during the final of the AAG in Morocco. Lightweight Maina had suffered a cut from the semifinals and went on to lose to Nairobi’s Benson Kamau in a referee stop contest on medical grounds. Martin Oduor of Police was awarded victory against Duncan Kamau of Thika in the bantamweight final when the latter was disqualified. Kevin Maina of KDF won the flyweight final on points against Mohammed Hussein of Kibra. Gold Coast Commonwealth Games bronze medalist Christine Ongare of Police won the ladies light flyweight final, beating namesake Mary Christine of Siaya County. Police emerged the winners in Nanyuki ahead of Kibra and former Kenya Defence Forces.  Leg Classification 1. Police 24 2. Kibra 15 3.KDF 13 4= Kisumu 3 4= Laikipia 3 4= Nairobi 3 7.Thika 2   