Nyeri Senator Ephraim Maina has called on tea framers to boycott the Kenya Tea Development Authority elections to take place early next month. Maina told farmers not to participate in the elections if the government does not heed to their calls to stop them. The senator said participating in the elections by farmers was tantamount to committing suicide. He spoke to the media at his Lusoi home in Kieni after meeting tea farmers on Sunday. Maina said farmers want an audit done first as ordered by the High Court a week ago. The court ordered the Auditor General to conduct the audit at KTDA after Murang’a Governor Mwangi Wa Iria filed a case over the matter. Senator Maina also wants investigations conducted at KTDA and the audit exercise extended to tea factories to find out what is ailing the sector. The tea farmers had visited the senator to air their grievances after tea payments dropped this year. Maina said the farmers told him that they were in a desperate situation and that some of them had started uprooting their tea bushes. The legislator asked the government to stop the elections, failure which farmers will take the matter in their own hands. “In fact I call on all tea farmers in Kenya not to allow these elections to happen because it is just like putting a rope in their neck and hanging themselves,” he said. He added that the elections are a sham designed to ensure the same corrupt and ignorant people manage KTDA. The lawmaker said before the Senate gives its recommendations in less than two weeks; the government should move in and stop the blatant stealing at the KTDA. The Senate recently passed a resolution through an adhoc committee that called on the government to form a commission of inquiry into tea sector woes. “And I want to tell the President that he must awaken his government and ensure that action is taken immediately,” Maina said. He said there is no way people stealing from farmers can be left in the office to keep mismanaging their resources. Maina said the government should not sit back and watch when farmers being subjected to poverty despite working very hard. “Tea earns this country a lot in foreign exchange and so let us cast our eyes in this sector because seriously, something needs to be done for small scale farmers who are the backbone of the country’s economy,” he said. The farmers led by Wairimu Ngambi said they elect directors who are soon compromised and turn against them to support the oppressive KTDA team. KTDA chairman Peter Kanyago said auditors and investigators are welcome at the agency because they have nothing to hide. 