The Orange Democratic Movement on Saturday announced it would strike off the embattled Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa from the Parliamentary Service Commission. The Orange party's leadership blamed Jumwa for engineering violence that caused the death of one person at Pendukiani last week. Suna East MP Junet Mohamed said as a chief whip he would take serious action against her and remove her from the post. He said investigations from the people's court had already revealed that its Jumwa who was involved in the death. Junet said the party has no option but to deal with her accordingly. ''The Government investigation is taking long, Aisha Jumwa investigations are taking long, Malindi people have spoken,'' he said. Junet said he has been in Parliament with Jumwa for two terms and she had behaved well with respect until she crossed over to Deputy President William Ruto's camp when she changed. At the same time, the ODM leadership in the county said it is also spearheading an exercise that will be led by MCAs to collect signatures for recalling the legislator from office since 'she is not fit to serve people of Malindi' The announcement was made at the burial of Michael Ngumbao Jola, an uncle of the Ganda ward MCA elect Reuben Katana who was shot on October 15 after Jumwa stormed the home of Katana and caused violence. Hundreds of mourners led by ODM Party Leader Raila Odinga, his Deputy Governor Hassan Joho, Kilifi's Amason Kingi, ODM Chief Whip Junet Mohamed, Kilifi North MP Owen Baya, his Kilifi South Counterpart Ken Chonga, Woman Rep Gertrude Mbeyu, Magarini Legislator Michael Kingi, Senator Stewart Madzayo among others. During the burial Jumwa's name featured prominently negatively as 'the first elected leader who resorted to violence' leading to the death of her voter. Raila condemned the killing saying it had saddened the entire country and blamed the judiciary for releasing the key suspects in the murder even after the prosecution requested for 21 days to complete their investigations. ''Those behind the killings were arrested and taken to court, the prosecution asked for 21 days to hold the suspects in custody to prevent them from interfering with evidence but the Judiciary is still in a mess that requires investigations,'' he said. Mbeyu on her part said she would spearhead the process of collecting signatures through all the MCAs on the grassroots to have the MP recalled and a fresh by-election conducted. ''Her target was me and Reuben. It is sad if one cannot compete politically opts to eliminate a person for her financial interests we are not ready for a leader like that,'' she said. Governor Kingi wondered why action has not been taken against the Malindi Sub County Police Commander Phillip Wambugu and his Deputy for not containing the violence. He claimed they had favoured the Malindi MP who was behind the violence. The Governor said the death of Jola should not be forgotten warning that if justice will not prevail, there would be problems in 2022 as politicians will take advantage of violence knowing that they would walk free. Jumwa had stormed a meeting organised at Katana's home where the training of agents was being conducted. Chaos later ensued which culminated in the Ganda ward elect MCA's uncle being gunned down. She was arrested the same night and locked in at Port Police Station but was not charged after the prosecution asked for 21 days to complete investigations. The MP and her accomplice were released on a Sh500,000 bond and are supposed to report to the DCI offices in Malindi every Tuesday.