Turkana County Assembly have on Thursday unanimously approved the Punguza Mzigo Initiative. Ekuru Aukot, Thirdway Alliance party leader, has received a boost from Turkana County Assembly after approving the Punguza Mzigo Initiative becoming second County after Uasin Gishu. Members of County Assembly both Jubilee and ODM voted unanimously to approve the bill fronted by Aukot. MCAs led by Leader of Minority and also representative Lokori/Kochodin ward Benedict Lokamar, said there was need to approve the Punguza Mzigo Initiative to help Kenyans who are struggling with the economy. "We are very much impressed by part of amendments in this Aukot's Punguza Mzigo Initiative. President Uhuru Kenyatta is against corruption and the sponsor of the bill is ready to help the President in eradication of corruption," Lokamar said. Angeline Epetet, representative of Turkana west, said they support the initiative because it proposes corruption and theft of public resources cases to be tried within 30 days and all appeals to be exhaustively concluded in 15 days. She said the reduction of MPs from 416 to 147 will help in controlling misuse of resources. Joseph Epuu, MCA of Letewa Ward in Turkana West, said about 90 percent of Kenyans are economically disabled and Punguza Mzigo Initiative will help Kenyans. "Kenyans have been oppressed and marginalized historically, bringing more funds to the wards will create economic empowerment by enabling many Kenyans who are stinging with leprosy and commonness of poverty to contribute in building of this nation," Epuu said. He said Aukot's  bill aims at increasing penalty for the corrupt fellows and funds will be safe. Mathew Allany, Youth representative said it's correct time to change the constitution but the problem is that leaders are coming up with different formulas. "Leaders are coming up with different initiatives, the Punguza Mzigo fronted by Aukot, Building Bridges Initiative by ODM leader Raila Odinga and Ugatuzi Initiative led by Governors," he said. Allany said that most of counties that have rejected to approve the Punguza Mzigo Initiative have not read it wise and they were influenced by their demigods to reject it. "For us here we have read the bill very well and not because Aukot hails in Turkana but we have seen its importance to the community. I will not be surprised if other initiatives will opt to copy paste the proposals of Aukot in their initiative," he said. Aukot needs more than half of the 47 county assemblies to approve the bill and so far 27 counties have rejected the initiative. If the 24 do not approve, his referendum bid dies.