The Anglican Church of Kenya (ACK) wants the national government to avoid overburdening Kenyans by imposing more taxes on them. The ACK Arch Bishop Jackson Ole Sapit said the country would head in the wrong direction and life of common man is becoming miserable by imposing more taxes. Speaking during a farewell ceremony for the retiring Southern Nyanza ACK Bishop James Ochiel in Homa Bay town on Sunday, Sapit said more taxation will make life unbearable for Kenyans. “Excess taxation makes environment for doing business unfavourable hence low economic growth. Kenyans will become poorer than they are today,” Sapit said. He said time had come for the national government to consider well being of its citizens. The clergyman also told the government to stop excess borrowing of funds from foreign agencies on grounds of more burdens. He expressed worry that the most of the funds which Kenya borrows from the foreign agencies are not utilized effectively to improve livelihood of the common man. “The greater percentage of funds which the Kenyan government borrows ends in corruption instead of undertaking development projects in the country,” Sapit said. The clergyman also condemned corruption saying it had led to accumulation of national resources in hands of a few individuals who are in power. He urged the government should prioritize interest of the common man, adding that any little funds borrowed should be spent in development projects. “Kenyans need roads, drugs in hospitals and other development projects. But we cannot achieve this if we lose public funds through corruption,” Sapit said. The Arch Bishop argued that the ACK church will not get tired in admonishing wrongdoings of the government. Homa Bay Senator Moses Kajwang’ who was present argued that the government had failed to demonstrate ability to utilize borrowed funds. “Kenya has a debt of 5.5 trillion but we’ve opened the door for the treasury to borrow another Sh3.5 trillion. Time has come for Senators to discourage the excessive borrowing which makes the country to have huge debts,” Kajwang’ said. The Senator promised to present a motion in their parliament to ensure the government borrows funds through approval of both the Senate and the National Assembly on Tuesday. Kajwang’ said the government should not borrow more funds without input of the Senate as it has been happening before. “Debts affect the whole country hence both the Senate and the National Assembly should approve a debt before the government borrows it. I will table the motion on Tuesday to effect it,” Kajwang’ said.