The latest UN report has directly linked the marketing of unhealthy foods and sugar-sweetened beverages to the growing overweight and obesity in children. The report released on Monday by Unicef, 'The State of the World's Children 2019: Children, food and nutrition; Growing well in a changing world', shows at least one in two children aged below five globally suffers from hidden hunger. This means the food they eat does not meet their nutrient requirements, thus deficient in micronutrients such as vitamins and minerals they need for their growth and development. The report notes the front of package labelling that is visible, accurate and easy to understand will help children, young people and families make healthier food choices. “Poor families tend to select low-quality food that costs less. Because of poverty and exclusion, the most disadvantaged children face the greatest risk of all forms of malnutrition,” the report reads. It cites increased vulnerability to eating disorders among adolescents to concern over body size and physical appearance, rapid bodily changes, societal pressure for thinness, dieting and peer pressure. Strikingly, not a single country has made progress in decreasing levels of overweight and obesity in the past 20 years, the report notes. “Financial disincentives on unhealthy foods can improve children’s diets. For example, taxes on sugary foods and beverages can reduce their consumption by children and adolescents.” Of greater concern by Unicef is that while the number of stunted children has declined in all continents except Africa, the number of overweight children has increased in all continents including in Africa. “Millions of children are eating too little of what they need, and millions are eating too much of what they don’t need: poor diets are now the main risk factor for the global burden of disease.” The report shows that last year, almost 200 million children aged below five suffered from stunting or wasting, while more than 340 million suffered from hidden hunger. According to the report, undernourished children usually reach puberty at a later age as the body delays sexual maturation to allow more time for growth. “Studies from Kenya and Senegal have found that when a stunted teen gains weight quickly, for example, after moving from a rural area to a city or being adopted into an affluent environment, it triggers earlier puberty, so closing the window for growth,” it reads. Unicef says an underweight or anemic mother is more likely to deliver a stunted child. Her child will be less likely to grow up strong and healthy, to excel in school or gain job and economic opportunities. As a result, that child is more likely to remain in poverty, more likely to be malnourished and more likely to have stunted children too, the report states. The report advocates for financial incentives to reward actors who increase the availability of healthy and affordable foods in markets and other points of sale, especially in low-income communities. Edited by R.Wamochie