The government has dismissed claims that the Nairobi-Mombasa expressway was cancelled due to corruption. Through government spokesman Cyrus Oguna, the government said graft had nothing to do with the cancellation of the 485km mega project as earlier reported. Speaking on Radio Maisha, Oguna on Tuesday maintained it was the contractors to blame for the fate of the project and not the government. In July, the Transport ministry rejected the Sh307.6 billion price tag on the project over inflation of the cost. The mega project whose ground breaking was set for last year, before being pushed to January this year and later to June, is yet to kick-off. It had been alleged that the Kenyan authorities – Transport Ministry and the Kenya National Highways Authority(KeNHA) - had inflated the cost by 66.7 per cent, from an estimated cost of Sh185.7 billion to Sh309.5 billion. This led the US government to temporarily halt the project to be implemented by American construction company - Bechtel International. Bechtel provided a formal offer in October 2016 and since then, KeNHA had been in discussions with the contractor which was concluded in July 2017, and the commercial contract signed on August 5, 2017. Construction was set to commence in 2018, according to KeNHA, which had expected to have the first section opened by end of this year. But in May this year, US ambassador to Kenya Kyle McCarter said his government was scrutinising the proposal to establish if it offered value for money for Kenyans. “We are still working on the finance. Kenya has a challenge of debt and we are wary of burdening Kenyans,” the envoy said in an interview in May. According to the envoy, the US is keen not to commit to a project whose cost would turn out to be “three to four times higher than the actual”, saying the Trump administration wants to ensure there is an honest return on investment for Kenyans. The Star also established the Environmental Impact Assessment on the project was never completed despite having been established in 2018. But Oguna said the project was suspended due to some issues that had not been sorted. "We had issued the tender to some contractors who were in partnership with other firms. One of the firms had issues that raised eyebrows with our donors who then suspended the project," he said. He maintained the tendering process had followed the due process and tender awarded in a transparent manner but one of the firms was not dully registered. As a result Kenyans will have to wait longer. We are not sure for how long but what we know one day the project will kick on,"Oguna said. President Uhuru Kenyatta signed a deal with US President Donald Trump during his visit to the White House,which opened talks for funding of the project with a proposed credit line from the US Exim Bank. Transport Cabinet Secretary James Macharia said the country has no contractual commitment to the project, hence no costs could be linked to the multi-billion highway. With regards to the controversial JKIA - Westlands expressway, Oguna maintained Uhuru park will not be affected with the project. Oguna said as result, the recreational park stands to benefit as the contractor aims to modernise the facility in face lift which is part of the project. What I want to advise Kenyans is that let them not jump into conclusions without asking clarity. All roads have reserves for future expansion and Uhuru Highway as it is has its reserve which is part of the park. This is the section that will be used to enhance the project,"he said. He said initial implementation iof the project will start in December this year and end by end year 2022. Ogunma said since the project is financed by a foreign investor, the government will not spend any coin as alleged. This is not a loan, It is a chinese investor who has decided to take risk and invest in this project. That is his business. He is not even sure whether people will fully use the road, so as he maintains the road for 27 years, this is part of the agreement that will see him recover his money," he said. He added, "We have Kenyans who have established their investiments in other countries. Maybe not in roads but they are doing great. This is what Private Public Partnership is all about. There is no sin if we let a foreign investor put his money in this project". Oguna said the project will cost some Sh60billion and to be implemented in two phases. The first phase will be an underpass that runs from Kitengela, Mlolongo to Capital Centre, while the second phase will run from JKIA all the way to Westlands at James Gichuru. This is a special project because even the tarmac that will be used is not ordinary, it equals that which has been used on Southern bypass and takes longer period before it depreciates," Oguna said.