A House team has put Deputy President William Ruto on the spot for commissioning a Sh5.3 billion 'empty' Lower Nzoia Irrigation Project without involving the parent ministries. On June 7, the DP went ahead to launch the irrigation project that cuts across Siaya and Busia counties at a time the line ministries claimed the whole project was a mere skeleton and not ready for the launch presided over by Ruto. The controversial project is aimed at boosting rice production and preventing destructive floods. It covers Ugunja, Alego Usonga and Budalang’i constituencies. The three agencies at the centre of the implementation of the project told the Public Accounts Committee on Monday it was inappropriate to launch a project when the acquisition of land had not been settled. The agencies also noted the project was not at the stage that it could be launched given it had many gaps that had to be fixed before any possible commissioning. Water Principal Secretary Joseph Irungu, in what seemed like a classic case of the right hand not knowing what the left hand is doing, said the ministry was not aware of the DP’s plans. “Had I been asked, I would have said we hold on as we had not compensated anybody in Siaya and it was not proper to go on with the launch,” Irungu told the committee. “I am not able to confirm that the CS was contacted because there was no formal communication,” Irungu said of the presence of Water CS Simon Chelugui who was the only high ranking official accompanying the DP. Chelugui, a former Jubilee Senate aspirant in Baringo, is a close associate of DP Ruto. Ruto has previously come under fire for his zeal in launching development projects, with critics saying it’s a political tactic for his 2022 presidential bid. However, David Mugonyi, communication secretary at the DP’s office, dismissed the assertions and said Ruto is the country’s second in command. "The DP went there for inspection and he is the Deputy President of Kenya. Again, the officers were on the ground," he told the Star. NIB CEO Gitonga Mugambi who also attended alongside Chelugui said he was instructed by former PS Fred Sigor to attend and was not doing so on behalf of the Board. NIB is mandated to oversee the implementation of the project that is meant to among others contribute to President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four agenda. Its presence during the launch was crucial for such a project. Ruto has been traversing the country, launching and inspecting projects and also bankrolling various groups including churches through his personal donations. Late last month, he made an elaborate tour of Tana River, Kilifi, Kwale, Mombasa and Taita Taveta counties. Ironically, President Uhuru Kenyatta hardly launches any projects. In January, the head of state elevated Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i as the coordinator of all government projects, a move some critics said was meant to cut Ruto down to size. Wandayi whose Ugunja constituency lies within the project area also confessed that his office was not involved and said he only learnt of the same through the media. “I can also confirm there was no contact between Deputy President’s office and my office as the area MP,” Wandayi said. The Ugunja lawmaker said the committee is concerned by the lone approach the DP adopted in commissioning the project. “The project which was being launched was done when not a single person was compensated. Who has the duty of advising the Deputy President?” he asked. “We want to know as a committee if the DP was misled to launch the project when it was not ready.” The revelations call into question various projects being launched by the President across the country. Ruto has been traversing the country launching development projects and drumming support for his 2022 presidential bid. In January this year, Uhuru appointed Matiang’i as chairman of the National Development Implementation and Communication Cabinet Committee. Mating'i is regarded as the can-do 'super-minister' and some observers say his elevation to oversee national projects is meant to sideline Deputy President William Ruto who likes to launch projects. Most government business is now transacted through Cabinet subcommittees that meet regularly and report to Matiang'i. Part of the committee mandate is to provide supervisory leadership throughout the delivery cycle of all national government programmes and projects. Irungu said the project was being derailed by compensation of farmers which has been stuck despite the ministry giving Sh450 million to the NLC to compensate them and pave way for the project rollout. The ministry had a Sh1.861 billion budget requirement for resettlement and compensation and had only received Sh450 million which it deposited with NLC. In the current budget (2019-20), the project received a further funding of Sh700 million, leaving a balance of Sh711 million. “Although the compensation of project- affected persons is derailing the work of the contractor, the project will only transfer additional funds when NLC requests the funds and also submits supporting documents for the expenditure incurred,” Irungu said. But NLC CEO Kabale Tache said the absence of the commissioners has crippled the payments as the commission could not gazette areas marked for compulsory acquisition. The land area for compensation is 2,807 acres with an estimated cost of Sh1.7 billion. So far, Sh185 million has been disbursed for 214 parcels according to NIB, with 2,593 pending due to delays by the National Land Commission. The Government through the National Irrigation Board is implementing the Lower Nzoia Project which targets 10,000 acres. Once finalised, the project is to benefit 12,000 households, with 5,000 acres under high-value crops and 5,000 acres under rice and other food crops. In addition, its completion will convert the Bunyala Irrigation Scheme from the expensive pump-fed system of irrigation to a gravity-fed system. This will, in turn, reduce the cost of production and increase rice production in the scheme.