Taita Taveta county assembly on Tuesday voted to reject Thirdway Alliance’s Punguza Mizigo Bill. The MCAs unanimously rejected the Bill during the afternoon sitting, joining 21 other counties that have opposed the bid to amend the Constitution. Uasin Gishu is the only county that has passed the Bill, which needs to be passed in at least 24 counties to be tabled in the National Assembly. Delegated County Legislation committee chairperson Beatrice Mwabili said the proposed amendments will bring positive change to the country by reducing the financial burden on Kenyans. She said, however, that the proposers did not put into consideration the impact of the amendments to wananchi for whom they purport to be reducing the burden. Mwabili argued that any attempt to merge the 47 counties would completely crumble the fast-growing devolution system of governance. “Reducing the number of constituencies, interference in the two-thirds gender rule and reducing elected representatives would disorganise representation in Parliament,” she said. Punguza Mizigo proposes the reduction of the number of lawmakers from 416 to 147 with salary cuts to reduce the wage bill. It seeks the abolition of positions for deputy governor and nomination slots to Parliament and county assemblies. It also proposes salaries of elected leaders be capped between Sh500,000 and Sh300,000 for the President and lawmakers respectively. While seconding the motion, Nominated MCA Catherine Mwakiwiwi said proposed punishment of people found guilty of corruption was not in good faith. “It is unreasonable to give the same sentence to a person found guilty of stealing ‘small’ amounts of public funds as that who has embezzled hefty amounts,” Mwakiwiwi said. The joint committee on Delegated County Legislation and the Justice, Constitutional, Legal Affairs, Labour, Employment, Trade Unions and Social Welfare further said the proposed single seven-year term presidency will increase tension associated with the electioneering period in the country. The committee had received a mixed reaction from residents during the public participation held across the four subcounties. The joint committee concluded that Punguza Mizigo can only be admissible with amendments. “This will ensure that sections which the public was opposed to could be amended according to their views and recommendations,” the committee's report reads. Edited by R.Wamochie