Funds meant for improvement of hospitals in Kiambu County were spent in other areas, leading to deterioration of health services, Deputy Governor James Nyoro has claimed. Nyoro alleges that for the last two years, the county government spent Sh1 billion meant for improving health facilities within the county on unrelated projects. Speaking during the Mashujaa Day celebrations at Ndumberi stadium in Kiambu on Sunday, Nyoro claimed that county failed to remit the Conditional Grant from the National Government, Facility Improvement Funds (FIF) and the National Hospital Insurance Funds to the respective facilities. Instead, the county spent the money on other projects, he alleged. “I promise that we will never again use money meant for our hospitals in other areas as has happened before thereby depriving our health facilitates money meant to support them,” Nyoro said. Nyoro, who’s heading the county government in acting capacity, said the money will be reimbursed in totality to the hospitals from the county government’s coffers so as to enhance service provision. “We will repay the money we owe the hospitals even if our budget will have to be constrained. Provision of high class and timely health services will continue to remain our key pillar of development in this county,” Nyoro said. He noted that the county’s health system is grappling with a myriad of problems including inadequate drugs, understaffing and dilapidated infrastructure and the lack essential amenities such as incinerators, laundry, drying and ironing facilities. He said the region continues to suffer from unreliable supply of drugs and non-medical supplies, blaming it on the failure of the Central Medical Store to receive and manage medical supplies. “The suffering will soon be a thing of the past because we are sourcing funds to construct a Central Medical Store at Kiambu Level 5 Hospital to ensure reliable supplies, avoid low stock levels or expired drugs, ensure value for money, and ensure uninterrupted sustainable health services provision,” Nyoro said. “We are also committed to clear all outstanding debts with the Kenya Medical Supplies Authority (Kemsa) so as to restore a sustainable relationship for the sake of continuous supply of drugs,” he said. Nyoro promised to spearhead completion of health projects that have stalled within the county including Tigoni, Wangige, Thogoto and Igegania level 4 hospitals. Other projects that are currently underway include Bibirioni and Githunguri level 4 Hospitals. The County boss who led Kiambu residents together with Speaker Stephen Ndichu, Ward reps, County Executive Members and Kiambu County Commissioner Wilson Wanyanga said he will work together with all elected leaders in the county to enhance developments in the region. “I have been consulting and working closely with all elected leaders of Kiambu County. They have been available and supportive in seeking solutions for the sake of development. Members of the County Assembly have also been at hand to work with the executive in actualising the projects development in the county,” he said.