Newly-crowned world half-marathon record holder Geoffrey Kamworor has insisted he is yet to quit the track as he targets another attempt at the title 10,000m at next year's Olympic Games. Kamworor, who will be chasing his second title at the New York Marathon next month said his preparations for the is on top as he plans to redeem his image after failing to defend his title last year. “I am not thinking of switching to marathon full time because I feel I still some unaccomplished business on the track. I am targeting a ticket in 10,000m for next year’s Olympic Games in Tokyo, Japan,” said the three-time world half marathon champion. On his New York return, the two-time world cross country champion, said: I am really focusing to go and run a great race. This will be my fourth time to appear in New York and hoping to run well. He won the title in 2017, finished second in 2015 and third in 2018. The all-surface runner broke the world 21km record in Copenhagen last month clocking 58:01 to lower Abraham Kiptum’s time of 58:18 set last year in Valencia. Kamworor said his training-mate at Global Sports Communication in Kaptagat, world record holder Eliud Kipchoge, is a God-send. “He (Kipchoge) has been giving me a lot of encouragement and he is our mentor at the camp. He is a focused person and we learn a lot from him. We are wishing him well as he attempts to run under two hours at INEOS 1:59 Challenge in Vienna this weekend,” added Kamworor. Kamworor said he doesn't regret missing the world championships in Doha last week since the world half marathon record had been in his mind for so long. “I had to skip the world championships to focus for Copenhagen Half Marathon where I wanted to run the fastest time and it came as a world record. That is a double blessing for me,” added Kamworor. However, he insists he new status does not put him under any pressure. “I have forgotten the world record and am forging ahead for a big task. Last year, I really prepared well, hoping to defend my title but there was a strong challenge as defending champion. However, I don’t have a lot of pressure this time. I know people are expecting a lot from me but am really focused. All is going on all and for sure hoping to run a great race.”