Retired teachers from Migori county have called on the government to fast-track the payment of their pensions that have delayed for over two decades. Led by former Migori MP John Dache, a retiree himself, the teachers said that despite existing court orders, most of them are still wallowing in poverty. Dache said that some teachers had died without receiving the money owed from as far back as 1997 and later confirmed by the Nakuru High Court judgment in 2018. “Most of the monies that are yet to be paid are for those who retired from service between 1997 and 2003. Some have passed on and we would like to have their next of kin benefit from the payout,” Dache said. Dache told the Star in Migori town on Wednesday that the pension arrears collectively amount to over Sh40 billion. The Treasury had promised to begin payments to thousands of retirees by October in bid to clear the backlog, he said. The former legislator said the tedious process of physically verifying files of beneficiaries through different departments has caused the backlog. “It has created opportunities for corruption where some people would be sneaked into the list of retirees while they were still in service, possibly by replacing deserving cases,” he said. Shem Ojwang, a retired teacher said he has patiently waited for the perk since 2002 and it was high time the government honoured its promise. “I have suffered a lot and I thought the court directive would give a green light for the payment but it seems the Treasury is reluctant to act,” he said. The National Assembly should enact a law that will ease future payments, Ojwang said. He said some of his colleagues who retired earlier had died in poverty. In July this year, court document tabled by the Teachers Service Commission noted that more than half of the 52,000 retired tutors names’ were missing as beneficiaries. Only 20,229 names appear in the list, making the amount claimed to be Sh16.7 billion and not Sh42.3 billion. The list produced in court by TSC covers teachers who retired between July 1, 1998, and June 30, 2003. (edited by O. Owino)