Defending champions Gor Mahia have the opportunity to lay down a marker early in the season when they take on Nzoia United in Mumias this afternoon in one of their catch up matches of the 2019/2020 Kenyan Premier League season. Gor suffered a humiliating exit from the Caf Champions League over the weekend when they fell to a 6-1 aggregate loss at the hands of USM Alger and will now hope to redeem their reputation with a solid performance in the league. “It’s important that we forget about Sunday’s game. This is a different competition altogether and like we have shown before, we have the capability to bounce back from any setback and hopefully, that will be the case once again today,” said young midfield anchor-man Tobias Otieno. The former Sugar lad was one of the few players who came away with their reputation intact after the clash with USM at Kasarani on Sunday and he is forging a solid partnership in midfield with the likes of skipper Kenneth Muguna and Lawrence Juma. “We win and lose as a team. On Sunday, I think luck deserted us because we created plenty of chances but we could not score. Hopefully, fortune will favour us today,” added Toby. The trio is likely to start the tie against Nzoia as Steven Polack’s men try to build upon their two victories in as many matches. Striker Nicholas Kipkirui, who was under-whelming in the Sunday’s clash, may pay the price for his profligacy with Ghanaian Francis Afiriye as well as Clifton Miheso all looking to return to the starting line up after being ineligible for the Caf duel. Nzoia have proved to be a thorn in K’Ogalo’s flesh since their return to the top-flight league. Collins ‘Korea’ Omondi’s charges go into this tie with a mixed bag of results having managed four points in their three matches to date. They got their first win away at Kisumu All-Stars 10 days ago and Korea will be hoping they take that feel-good factor into the difficult game against the league holders. Victory for Gor today will take them to the top of the standings with nine points and a game in hand while Nzoia will be in the top half of the table should they manage to outwit Polack’s charges. 