Kakapel Rock rises 270 metres above a lush forest in Busia and those who climb to the top get a spectacular panoramic view. They can clearly see Busia, Malaba, Amukura, Adungosi and Angurai towns, parts of Bungoma as well as Tororo town in Uganda. But even better are the well-preserved rock art paintings and carvings by ancient peoples, said to be around 4,000 years old. The caves at the foot of the rock still have traces of smoke, signifying the presence of people who lived in caves and cooked over firewood. Ten years ago the National Museums of Kenya and a community cultural centre in Busia hoped to create a tourist attraction. There were plans to introduce wild animals to lure more visitors to the Kakapel National Monument and Cultural Centre and the Chelelmuk Hills in Teso North subcounty. But 10 years down the road, nothing has happened because there's no money, Residents who spoke to the Star wanted to know why the project hadn't yet gotten off the ground. They had hoped to cash in on an influx of tourists. “Kakapel was once dominated by wild animals and I'd like to see them come back, resident it is my wish to see animals come back,” resident Anthony Odera said on Wednesday. “This would help ensure conservation of the forest in the Kakapel hills. Animals are a centre of humanity.” Odera who was one of the originators of the idea says wild animals in the forest include the De Brazza monkey, vervet monkeys, bush rats, squirrels, hares, porcupines, birds and reptiles such as snakes and monitor lizards. The project gained momentum between 2013 and 2015 Kenya Wild Service officials visited to assess the site's viability to host more animals. But the idea was shelved due to inadequate funding. Former Amagoro MP, who is the patron of the community cultural centre, said that with funding, the initiative would be revisited after residents are compensated for the land they gave for the project. “We need to have adequate land for the animals and other creatures to co-exist. There are people willing to sell some of their land to the project, but we need to compensate them adequately," he said on the phone on Tuesday. The project also involved planting trees on the slopes of Kakapel and the Chelelemuk Hills. People would be discouraged from cutting trees and hunting. The Kakapel community cultural centre’s annual festival on December 26 showcases Teso culture, dance, music, literature, traditional food and beer. A range of rock art is prominent. Irene Etyang said delayed implementation of the project has denied residents the opportunities that come with tourism. “This is a way of conserving forests and nature. It will also bring about a symbiotic relationship between nature and people. Animals are partof the forest ecosystem,” she said. “We expect the project to benefit the community in so many diverse ways. It will be a source of income to the community as it will attract local and international tourists as jobs will be created." Kakapel hills is the main water catchment area in Teso and the introduction of uncommon animals species in the area would help conserve forests. Part of the investment was realised in April 2019 when the National Museums of Kenya signed an MoU with the Busia government to improve cultural and natural sites, including rock carvings. The agreement was categorical that NMK and Busia county will open a research centre to document cultural practices in the region. Fencing is also needed to control people and grazing livestock, keep wildlife inside and prevent land encroachment and frequent trespassing. Despite the problems, the community is optimistic that the project will be implemented. “I absolutely support the project to conserve the cultural site, rich in caves and ancient art," resident Robert Murega said. "Introduction of wild animals will make it an attraction." “The money we will receive from tourists will go improve the welfare of the community." (Edited by V. Graham)