Butali coach Dennis Owoka wants his charges to go all out for goals when they confront Sailors tomorrow at the City Park Stadium. He challenged his players to capitalise on both penalty corners and field goals to ensure they carry the day. The defending champions have had a roller coaster ride in the men's Premier League., winning 10 matches and drawing thrice to maintain an unbeaten record. They beat Sailors 2-0 in the first leg and start favourites in today's match considering their recent record. Owoka noted that eight points in their remaining five matches will be enough to win back-to-back titles. Even though they were restricted to only two goals previously, the tactician expects his side stay on the winning course. He said: "We struggled to beat them in March because we were not sure how our new players would turn up. We have had a good break and I expect the boys to win in style. They are a good side but they have dipped in form," he noted. He added: "The style of play is similar but they won't match our pace upfront. It is good to score a variety of goals especially with our quality and that is what I expect from my boys." He said they need just eight points to be sure of the title. "It won't be easy as we are yet to play Wazalendo and Greensharks but we will take it one game at a time," he noted.  Frank Wanangwe is out with an injury. Elsewhere, third-placed Greensharks face bottom side Parklands. Parklands have not won a match since their 3-2 opening day victory against United States International University USIU-A Mashujaa. A win for Parklands will move them to the eighth spot in the 10-team league. Any outcome for Greensharks will not affect their position. Women side USIU will move level on points with leaders Blazers (initially Telkom) if they win against JKUAT and Strathmore. Blazers are not in action. USIU have 20 points and are second on the log. They humiliated JKUAT 4-0 and registered a goalless draw against Strathmore previously.  Strathmore captain Gilly Okumu said the team will have to win to remain in touch with top teams. They could, however, find themselves five points adrift of their opponents if USIU beat JKUAT today. With a fully fit squad, she implored that they will play to their strength. "It is a derby that any side can win but getting three points is our target. maintaining our status calls for vigorous attacking and utilising our chances."