Clinical officers have threatened to walk off the job on November 1 should the government fail to effect payment for diploma interns. They served the Ministry of Labour and other sector players with a 14-day notice that came into effect yesterday. The clinical officers said despite extra budgetary allocation to the Health ministry for the presidential internship programme, the ministry has remained uncommitted on the payment. Kenya Union of Clinical Officers national chairman Peterson Wachira says there are ill-intentions and deliberate efforts to deny the interns the stipend. “We were told only degree interns are to be paid. Does it mean they have more needs than diploma interns?” he asked. “Our right to fair labour practices, right to fair remuneration, reasonable working conditions and collective bargaining continue to be contravened with impunity by the employers." They have termed it inhuman for the youth to be subjected to unpaid internships for one year without considering how they cater to their basic needs. A demonstration by the interns on Wednesday was disrupted after the police fired teargas. “It is worse when they are denied despite the availability of funds that can be used to cater for them. We are left with only one bullet, the strike.” Wachira said that in the negotiations held in 2017, they agreed on a revision of the scheme of work among clinical officers. The scheme, he claims, was finalised by the various parties including the ministry, the Council of Governors, the Public Service Commission and the union but has been dusting away. Clinical officers play a central role in Kenya's medical sector today. They are trained for four years — three in school and a year of internship at designated teaching hospitals. The internship involves supervised rotations in the major clinical departments, namely casualty, medicine, paediatrics, surgery, obstetrics and gynaecology. They are supervised by consultants in the respective fields. Wachira said after failed negotiations in May for the second time, they wrote a letter to the Labour CS informing him of the dispute as provided for in the Labour Relations Act but they have yet to receive a response five months later. “This, therefore, means that conciliation has failed and leaves the union with no option but result in industrial action.” Other grievances they want to be addressed include the pending promotions and redesignations being effected and signing of the CBA. Edited by R.Wamochie