When Kenyan Premier League moneybags Wazito unveil their new coach today, the incoming tactician will have his work cut out as he seeks to rescue a team that has failed to live to expectations six matches into the new campaign. Wazito have six points from as many matches, thus one win and three draws. The club fired their coach Fred Ambani and technical director Stanley Okumbi after reports that the two went into a near fist-fight on the eve of their 4-2 loss to Kakamega Homeboyz last weekend. Despite their unrivalled spending power in the player transfer market before the new season, Wazito have found the going tough with a meagre return that has seen them fall from pre-tournament favourites to also-runs at 13th, nine points behind leaders and champions Gor Mahia. Ambani had replaced Mohammed Mchula mid last season and managed to guide the then National Super League side to an automatic promotion position, but has failed to maintain that momentum in the top flight. A host of top foreign coaches have been mentioned in the grapevine including former Gor Mahia tactician, Briton Dylan Kerr and former Mt Kenya United boss Melis Medo. The new coach is expected to work with Mohammed Hamisi, who survived Monday's axe. Club Sporting Director, Solomon Alubala said the new coach will be expected to hit the ground running as a clash against Posta Rangers on Sunday at the Narok Stadium looms large. Wazito moved their home matches from the Kenyatta Stadium, Machakos to Narok. “We have gone through a handful of curriculum vitaes from coaches who had expressed interest in the job. We are finalising the contractual agreements and we will name and unveil him tomorrow (today). I can confirm he is a foreign coach, who meets the qualities set by Football Kenya Federation(FKF) and suits our demands too,” said Alubala. "We expect the new coach to put the squad together and get the best out of them. He has to manage the team and ensure we get positive results.” Alubala, in the meantime, has denied the alleged fistfight between Ambani and Okumbi at the Gems Cambridge School grounds over the selection of the team to face Homeboyz. “There were no fistfights as reported. The two enjoyed a good working relationship and worked harmoniously. However there were disagreements over a few technical issues which were internally resolved,” he remarked.