 It had been dismissed as a project to nowhere and a waste of public funds. The construction of the second phase of the standard gauge railway from Nairobi to Naivasha cost Sh150 billion. Kenyans, citing the huge cost, criticised the project saying it was not worth the funds. But President Uhuru Kenyatta disregarded the criticism on Wednesday when he set out for the project's launch. Dressed in tailor-made Ankara shirt and a black trouser, the President it was time to work and that day had started. The First Lady Margaret Kenyatta was with him. She clad a red coat and white flowery dress complimented by Maasai accessories of beadworks on the neck. A few minutes past noon, the journey to the Suswa SGR station started from the Nairobi terminus. The two stations are 100km apart. As the train snaked its way through the Nairobi National Park, the announcer Pauline Shegu occasionally explained to passengers various designs. At the park, the line is raised by huge pillars rising eight metres at the entrance and the tallest at 41 metres at the exit. "This, Your Excellency, is to allow wildlife such as giraffes to cross below the line," Shegu explained. An adult giraffe ranges between 16 and 20 feet in height. Male giraffes are usually taller than their female counterparts. The tallest male giraffe measures 20 feet. Phase 2A SGR project passes through the five counties of Nairobi, Kajiado, Kiambu, Nakuru and Narok. The construction was undertaken by China Communications Construction Company. Uhuru who was in coach nine with the First Lady. In the train were 10 Cabinet Secretaries including James Macharia, Joe Mucheru, George Magoha, Monica Juma, Simon Chelugui, Keriako Tobiko, Raychelle Omamo, Eugene Wamalwa, John Munyes and Mwangi Kiunjuri. Governors Mike Sonko (Nairobi), Joseph Lenku (Kajiado), Ferdinand Waititu (Kiambu), Lee Kinyanjui (Nakuru), Samuel Tunai (Narok) and Alfred Mutua of Machakos were present. The railway has a viaduct that cuts through the middle of the park for six kilometres, dividing it into two almost equal portions. "Your Excellency, this is the only park in the world near a city with spectacular wildlife including the endangered black rhino, lions, leopards, cheetahs, hyenas, buffaloes and giraffes," Shegu said. Zebras and antelopes could be seen browsing far from the bridge. To deflect the noise and its impact on wildlife, Shegu said noise deflectors had been fitted. At 12.36pm, the train stopped at the Ongata Rongai station. Earlier, the announcer said there were numerous migratory routes for wildlife linking Nairobi National Park and Amboseli. The Ongata Rongai station is made of local and modern roofing. It has a red brick facade, characteristic to local Maasai community. The station stands on a 20 acre land with a capacity to serve 250 passengers. Uhuru pledged said the remaining stretch of the line will be completed. He took a swipe at those against mega-projects. "Those who will speak will detail our development agenda. Work will continue and the whole line will be completed," Uhuru said. Kenyatta said there will be problems encountered but that does not mean works will stop. "Msiweke porojo. Kazi itaendelea (do not include empty talks. The work will continue)," he said in reference to stories castigating the SGR. Th President likened the project to the journey to heaven saying there are thorns. After the Ngong station, the railway enters the Ngong tunnel which covers 4.5km. Uhuru launched the tunnel for construction in October 2016. The contractor had to use the tunnel as it is the shortest route to the Rift Valley Escapement. There is another one kilometre tunnel between Kimuka and Kajiado. Within minutes, one enters the 1.7km tunnel in Nachu-Kiambu before the train enters the breathtaking valleys of the Rift. All along, local leaders complained that there were no access roads. The contractor said the tunnel is among the most complex civil structures in railway works and have a relevant impact on the cost of the entire works. "The conventional drill, blast and sequential excavation method (Modified Austrian method) have been deployed in drilling these tunnels." The Ongata Rongai, Ngong, Mai Mahiu and Suswa are all intermediary stations, meaning they have the capacity to handle both cargo and passengers. The President addressed residents at the Suswa station where he underscored the importance of the project. “And I tell all those who are thinking of holding us back that they should relocate to other countries because there is no place for them in Kenya," Uhuru said. He said the government will not be discouraged by "baseless claims." "We know where we want to take the country in development and we will not allow visionless people to discourage us. Let me tell you, Mai Mahiu and Suswa is not nowhere. This is Kenya. I know after 20 years Mai Mahiu and Suswa will be developed. We are clear in our vision and we are going somewhere,” the President said in an apparent reply to those that had said the SGR was a project to nowhere.  edited by peter obuya