Jubilee leaders allied to DP William Ruto have continued to voice their concerns over the manner in which Mau forest evictions are being handled. They claimed several families are being brutalised even before the vacation deadline. They also cited a pending court case over the matter. They spoke on Friday during an Inua Mama rally in Silibwet, Bomet Central. They included elected legislators from Bomet. They said they had received reports that officers are destroying properties and flushing out people from their homes, terming their actions dehumanising. Those present included Bomet Woman Representative Joyce Korir and MPs Ronald Tonui (Bomet Central) and Dominic Koskei (Sotik). They accused regional coordinator George Natembeya of being behind the inhumane acts committed by forest wardens. “Evictions are supposed to be carried out in a manner that respects the human dignity and safeguards the rights of all people, especially the vulnerable groups, but what we are witnessing is total brutality,” he said. Koskei said people whose houses were demolished have nowhere to shelter and their problems have been worsened by downpours. He urged the government to recall all its officers from the area. The women called on the security officers to stop being used to oppress and intimidate leaders seen to be aligned to some wings in the government and instead follow the law in their undertakings. They alleged a plot to silence Tangatanga leaders. Kandara MP Alice Wahome cited the arrest and detention of Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa as one that was politically orchestrated to settle a score. She termed it sad that women leaders are being targeted, while their male counterparts are spared. “We want to ask the security agencies to be fair in their undertakings… They should not be seen to be taking sides,” Wahome said. Elsewhere, Chama Cha Mashinai leader Isaac Rutto claimed the officers are forcing people to demolish their houses while claiming they are moving out voluntarily. He said there has been no notice issued on when the eviction will begin, but KFS had started ejecting people. 