 BY MAURICE ALAL @alalmaurice Kisumu Governor Anyang Nyong’o has been urged to take action against all corrupt county staff. Residents say Nyong’o should not hesitate to sack those who are derailing services and development through corruption. They have on numerous occasions demanded the sacking of some executives over corruption allegations. Businessman Erick Rabuogi on Friday said nobody should be shielded in the war on graft. He said residents want competent leaders for proper service delivery. “We want value for money. Anybody hindering county development by engaging in corruption must be dealt with,” he said. Mary Adhiambo said Nyong’o should ensure fairness and inclusivity in his administration. Bodaboda rider Josephat Obatsa decried poor services, especially in health facilities. On Thursday, former Cooperatives executive Richard Ogendo slammed Nyong’o for sacking County Executive Committee members. But in a statement by his spokesperson Aloice Ager, Nyong’o said the reorganisation of his cabinet was aimed at improving services. Ogendo, Alice Moraa (Energy), and Thomas Ondijo (Roads) were sent packing by the county chief on Wednesday. Ogendo criticised Nyong’o for not taking action against those allegedly involved in corruption and instead accused him of sacrificing competent executives. He, however, thanked Nyong’o for having given him the opportunity serve residents for two years. “We’ve worked well. I've done my best and have not been mentioned in cases of corruption or incompetence,” Ogendo said on Thursday. He accused the Finance docket of derailing services and project implementation. Ogendo said they expected Nyong’o to restore order in the Finance department by making changes, only for him to sacrifice them. "We did not expect to be sacked. We thought the Finance executive would take full responsibility because he has been the one hindering growth,” he said. "If in case we were the ones blocking the county’s growth, then we’re happy to leave. We do hope Kisumu will now develop more." He commended Deputy Governor Mathews Owili for being a unifying factor and committing to serve residents. Nyong’o moved Finance and Economic Planning executive Nerry Achar to Energy and Industrialisation. He had previously served as Lands executive. Achar was impeached by MCAs on August 13 but the court reinstated him, pending the ruling on a case he filed to challenge the decision. The MCAs accused him of incompetence, abuse of office, gross misconduct and violation of the Constitution. Agriculture executive Gilchrist Okuom has been appointed the acting Business, Cooperatives, and Marketing executive. John Obiero, who is the Education executive was appointed as acting Finance and Economic Planning executive. His Lands counterpart Dickson Obungu will also act  as Roads, Transport and Public Works executive. Tourism and Sports executive Achie Alai retained her position. “The executive members appointed in acting roles shall continue to hold those temporary roles alongside their substantive portfolios,” Nyong’o said. Health docket is headed by Judith Attyang’. Nyong’o has nominated George Okong’o for Finance executive and has submitted his name for vetting by the county assembly. (Edited by F'Orieny)