Good morning, Unhappy with the way President Uhuru Kenyatta has been rejecting bills approved by the National Assembly, MPs now plan to curtail his powers. The MPs have drawn up a legislative proposal with far-reaching amendments to the Constitution which, among other things, wants to remove the President's veto powers. A source at the Constitutional Implementation Oversight Committee (CIOC) intimated to the Star that the plan followed concerns that the Executive is usurping the law-making role of the National Assembly. The feeling in the committee is that President Kenyatta - and by extension, the Executive – is keen on overruling Parliament, “knowing it would be difficult to achieve the numbers to overturn such decisions.” Here are the other stories making headlines in the Star this morning. As athlete Kipchoge seeks a historic record in the INEOS 1:59 challenge in Vienna Austria, back home in the North Rift region, his name is on the lips of everyone ahead of the expected big day. From his rural Kapsisiywa village in Nandi county to the streets of Eldoret and Iten, and from ordinary folk to the prominent in society, Kipchoge’s name reverberates across the hills in the region that is home to many great world beaters. Mumias town was once vibrant; teeming with traders and buyers. Money was the last worry in many a farmer's mind. The economy of the town and its environ was supported by Mumias Sugar Company. But the miller has fallen into hard times, finding itself in financial doldrums. Mumias town and its environs are slowly turning into ghost towns as cash flows dry up. The company has laid off workers and farmers no longer make a living from selling cane to the miller. It's the attack of the quelea quelea birds. Red-billed quelea quelea birds are causing destruction in the Mwea Irrigation Scheme where rice farmers are counting losses. And elsewhere. The birds are a menace to rice and other small-grain farming. Farmers have had to hire people to scare away the birds to prevent them from devouring crops. Since the government renewed its fight against corruption, the graft lords seem to have changed tack and targeted the church for sanitisation. The church is a safe target because it is considered hallowed and expects unquestioning obedience from mortals. Participating in the mission of the church through material contributions and volunteerism is considered noble and philanthropic. Those who are generous to the church and empathise with the priestly duty of selfless devotion to God’s calling are considered special. It is made to appear as if the more you contribute and volunteer, the closer you come to heaven’s gates. Celebrity figures have been in the headlines after their sex tapes or nude photos were leaked online. At the risk of online trolling, sex tapes and nudes have also been used by celebrities for publicity and to further their brands. The famous Kardashian clan built an empire from their reality television show after a 2003 sex tape of Kim Kardashian-West with rapper Ray- J was leaked in 2007.