The 17th edition of the Standard Chartered Nairobi Marathon assembled participants from all walks of life ‘running for a reason’ as the event returned to the Nyayo National Stadium yesterday. The event targeted to raising Sh60m towards the Standard Chartered Bank’s FutureMakers, a community initiative which seeks to support disadvantaged young people from low-income households and people with visual impairment in terms of education, employability and entrepreneurship. The mammoth crowds comprising of the old, young, men and women piled on Uhuru Highway at the start points of the various races which attracted both amateur and elite runners as early at 6 am. Athletes were spared from the steady patterns of rain that have been witnessed in the city in recent days. With no droplets scattering the nascent rays of the rising sun, the runners did their warm-ups ready for the races by 6.30 am. Ebony Entertainers, who are​ based at the Kenya National Theatre got the day going with estimable performance preceded by the national and East Africa Community anthems at the wheelchair 21km race start line. This was followed by the marathon, 21km, 10km and 5km Family Fun Run events. In their thousands, they snaked around the city, passing around Nairobi’s monumental buildings including Kenyatta International Convention Centre,  Parliament Building, University of Nairobi and National Museums of Kenya. Sports Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohammed alongside her Principal Secretary Kirimi Kaberia graced the event. They spent the better part of their time at both the start points, flagging off the races and at the finish line of the 42km to usher in the winners. Also in the fold was the legislator for Laikipia West Patrick Mariru who defied all odds to feature in the 21km race. Mariru, who is preparing to represent Kenya at the 2019 East Africa Parliamentary Games in December in Uganda, said: “I am encouraged by the turnout. I had a great time running the course and this event serves as a precursor for the EAP Games and I think I am not far off my target.” Over 10 nationalities were represented at the event including China, German, USA, United Kingdom, India, Uganda, Rwanda and South Sudan. There were also eight refugees of Ethiopian descent based in Nairobi participating in the half marathon, 10km and 5km family fun run. Children as young as three years accompanied their parents for the Family Fun Run, while toddlers also enjoyed rides on their strollers. Asha Winnie brought out her children including teenager Sammar Njeri, 13, pre-teen Kimberley Njeri, 11 and five-year-old Tiara Joy to the course. This family has previously participated in the 2016 and 2017 editions. Kimberley said: “It was a good outing. We enjoyed and made friends too. We were looking forward to the water splash at KICC but it was not there. We thank mum for the opportunity to give back to the community and keep fit.” On the flip side, Omondi Ragot, an all-comer runner at the Standard Chartered Nairobi Marathon ran the 42km, saying his participation was aimed at boosting his health. He is thankful that at 76, he is not using a walking aid. Legendary Paralympian T11 (blind) athlete Henry Wanyoike graced the event too and ran the 10km. Companies' chiefs, native and foreign dignitaries too graced the annual event. The Star Newspaper managing director William Pike, Standard Chartered Bank CEO Kariuki Ngari were also in the fold. Participants had prepared well for their races and the AAR Healthcare emergency and medical attendants at the event registered slightly under 100 cases to attend to. As reported by doctors at the medical tent, the majority of the cases included low sugar, dehydration and soft injuries- bruises, muscle pulls and cramps and joint pains. With the feeling of accomplishment, the jolly but exhausted participants took the opportunity to network and make friends after the run as they danced to entertaining music.