A Facebook post claiming that Members of the Taita Taveta County Assembly have impeached Governor Granton Samboja is TRUE. The post adds that Samboja will appear before the Senate to defend himself. On October 9, 30 Taita Taveta ward representatives unanimously voted in favor of a motion introduced by the assembly’s Deputy Majority Leader Harris Keke to impeach Governor Samboja. Taita Taveta County Assembly confirmed the governor’s impeachment in a statement on its official Facebook account. The statement reads in part, “The following grounds were cited by the Motion mover: the governor has been accused of gross misconduct, misleading the County Assembly, misappropriation of funds contrary to public finance Act 2012, stalled projects, misrepresentation of facts to the public with the aim of inciting the public against the County Assembly, failure to submit to the County Assembly an annual report on the implementation status of the County policies and plans as required by the County Government Act,2012, failure to adhere to County Assembly resolution on ratification of Mr. Davis Mwangoma as the acting County Executive Committee Member for Finance and Economic Planning.” Additionally, Mata Ward MCA Hon Nobert Chanzu accused the governor of not delivering a State of the County Address since he was elected into office in 2017. The governor has been entangled in a three-month tussle with the ward representatives over ward budgetary allocations, and by the time of his impeachment, Samboja was in the process of collecting signatures from residents of Taita Taveta County in a bid to petition the president to dissolve the county assembly. PesaCheck has looked into the claim that Members of the Taita Taveta County Assembly have impeached Governor Granton Samboja and finds it to be TRUE. This post is part of an ongoing series of PesaCheck fact-checks examining content marked as potential misinformation on Facebook and other social media platforms. By partnering with Facebook and similar social media platforms, third-party fact-checking organisations like PesaCheck are helping to sort fact from fiction. We do this by giving the public deeper insight and context to posts they see in their social media feeds. Have you spotted what you think is fake news or false information on Facebook? Here’s how you can report. And, here’s more information on PesaCheck’s methodology for fact-checking questionable content. This fact-check was written by PesaCheck Researcher James Okong’o, was edited by PesaCheck Deputy Editor Ann Ngengere and was approved for publication by PesaCheck Managing Editor Eric Mugendi.