Inspector of General of Police Hillary Mutyambai has two weeks to investigate allegations of conspiracy involving immigration officials and politicians to deport an Indian family and seize his property. Citizen TV on Sunday aired an exposé titled 'Westlands underworld' claiming that officials at Immigration and other security agencies planned to deport the family of 70-year-old Dillip Bakrania so they could take over his vast wealth. The Ministry of Interior wants Mutyambai to immediately commence investigations into the allegations contained in the documentary and update the ministry within 14 days. "That full and proper investigations be undertaken with immediate effect to determine the validity or lack thereof of the allegations," the statement signed by the ministry's spokesperson Wangui Muchiri reads. Commenting on the matter on Tuesday, Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji assured foreigners living and working in the country that they are safe and their property will not be interfered with. "We must assure the foreigners living and working in the country that their families and businesses are safe. That case was unfortunate and I'm sure investigations will unravel the facts," he said during a media breakfast on plea bargaining. Citing months of undercover investigation, the expose claimed Bakrania and his sister Hansa was a target of an intricate web aimed at seizing his properties, deporting him or even worse. Bakrania owns several companies located on Dar es Salaam Road in Nairobi’s Industrial Area, it claimed. "Months into the investigations showed his 192 Bentley vehicle worth millions had gone missing, bank accounts frozen by individuals and his gun taken away," the report said. But the government wants any member of the public, including Citizen TV, to submit any documentary evidence and details on the matter to the Director Internal Affairs Unit Charlton Murithi to help with investigations. The allegations named deputy inspector of police Edward Mbugua, head of Immigration Services Alex Muteshi, Makadara MP George Aladwa, DCI officers and lawyers among other players as conspiring to frustrate the family . A controversial private investigator, Jane Mugo, was also drawn into the expose.