 The Jubilee Party has written to EACC to take disciplinary action against rogue Nairobi MCAs who were behind the chaos that dogged the return of speaker Beatrice Elachi on Wednesday. The party has summoned all its Nairobi MCAs for a meeting on Wednesday next week over the chaos at the assembly. The party has also written to the individual MCAs to attend the meeting with a view of initiating disciplinary action against those who engaged in destruction of property at City Hall. Jubilee secretary general Raphael Tuju on Thursday told the Star they have involved the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission since some of Wednesday's actions border on criminal offenses. EACC is the body charged with instilling ethics in the public sector. “We have written to all the MCAs for a meeting on Wednesday next week invoking Section 40 of the Political Parties Act that requires us to deal with internal problems among our party members through internal dispute mechanism,” Tuju told the Star. He said the precedent had already been set in Kiambu, Nyandarua, Embu and Muarang’a county assemblies where similar chaos have previously been witnessed. “What happened at City Hall that culminated in destruction of public property and very unbecoming public behaviour falls squarely in the hands of EACC,” the CS said. “We have notified them (EACC) in writing to investigate the chaos in line with Chapter Six of the Constitution.” The chapter deals with ethics and integrity. It provides that a state officer who contravenes the set behaviour of a public office holder shall be subjected to applicable disciplinary action for the relevant office which can culminate into dismissal or otherwise removal from office. Tuju said the party was contemplating involving the Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti as some of the behaviours were criminal. Chairs and tables were broken, flower vases fell and tear gas lobbed at City Hall as MCAs fought in support and against Elachi's return as speaker. She was removed in a vote by the MCAs in September last year. Elachi was led to the assembly by MCAs, mostly from the minority ODM side while the Majority side of the Jubilee led by leader Abdi Guyo opposed her return. "Nobody will impose you on us. You have been rejected before by Dagoretti North constituents and we rejected you and you are trying to get a back through the backdoor," Guyo shouted during the chaos.  edited by peter obuya