It sounds like a first: matatu operators and police on the same side. Kwale matatu operators have commended the police authority for helping restore order in the transport sector  and seizing private vehicles operating illegally to ferry passengers. The new development comes a month after Public Service Vehicle workers protested against an increment in fares and  'unhealthy' competition brought about by private vehicles. Speaking on Monday in Kwale town, Drivers and Conductors chief of security Suleiman Mwachoa said police have helped stabilise growth in the sector. “The officers managed to fulfil their promise and this sector is now flourishing,” he said. Mwachoa said hopes that by the end of this year, the situation will improve and business will be booming. He said activities have resumed and business owners are achieving their daily targets. “Everything is now in place, the pace of delivery of services is under control and employees are able to raise the agreed money for employers,” Mwachoa said. He said the roadblocks introduced at Maganyakulo and Kombani have greatly helped to eliminate the illegal matatu business. He said Probox and other private cars used to ferry paying passengers have been seized since the operation began late last month. Mwachoa said there is good rapport between police and matatu workers. “We communicate with senior authorities from time to time whenever there is an issue and luckily, immediate solutions are achieved through teamwork." He though they do their best, some problems arise in the crackdown on unlicensed vehicles. Some personal vehicles take alternative at night to evade traffic units’ dragnet but officers are on high alert. “There are vehicles evading roadblocks by using the Matuga-Ng’ombeni rough road but police are tracking them," Mwachoa said.  Kwale-Likoni driver Ali Mwandoro said some private vehicles work late at night and early in the morning. He said the few vehcles that operate illegally don’t pose a great challenge as in previous years. The sector, Mwandoro said the change of Sh1,000 notes has caused some inconvenience "but we are coping with the situation". Edited by R.Wamochie