Kisumu governor Anyang Nyong’o was on Saturday sharply criticised by civil society groups over what they termed poor service delivery to county residents. They said Nyong’o was concentrating too much on the launch of his book instead of ensuring services to the electorates. Transform Empowerment for Action Initiative executive director George Collins Owuor said Nyong’o should take charge and steer the county towards development. He said the healthcare in Kisumu was in a sorry state and the governor has been least concerned with the continued suffering of patients seeking services. “We want developments and not the launching of books. Such does not put food on the table of thousands of residents. The health sector in the county has been in ICU over workers strike due to unpaid salary,” Owuor said. Despite county government stand that salaries have been paid and direct health workers to resume duties, doctors are not in hospitals over nonpayments. Health executive Judith Attyang’ and Finance executive Nerry Achar on Wednesday said health workers have been paid. But sources within the striking doctors said they were yet to resume work over salary dues. Nyong’o launched his book in Kisumu at Maseno University on Friday after the launch in Nairobi two weeks ago. Owuor said that after demolitions of shops belonging to small traders to pave way for the Sh3billion Kisumu port face-lift, there has been no alternative place to resettle those who were affected. He asked Nyong’o to priorities his activities and responds to the dire needs of the people than putting his book launch as a priority. The executive director further took an issue with the Kisumu County Assembly MCAs for failing in their oversight role of the executive. The MCAs, Owuor said, are now trooping to the book launch of Nyong’o yet they have failed to articulate issues affecting the public. He called upon MCAs to get pre-occupied by activities that are deemed beneficial to the public and stop their allegiance to Governor Nyong’o.