The National Police service has embarked on a plan that will see all the Ex administration officers undertake a mandatory standardized course. In a circular from Vigilance house, the move is in line with the ongoing police reforms that has seen some 24,000 Administration Police officers merged to the Kenya Police service general duties. According to the circular signed by Boniface Maingi, the move will see the first batch of 1,300 officers undertake the course starting October 24. Maingi said all the courses will be undertaken at the Kiganjo College. "Kinganjo has developed a syllabus that will see all the 24,000 officers sensitized and trained," he said. He added that 25 out of 47 counties are expected to nominate 21 ex administration officers and 9 Kenya Police officers to attend the training. The remaining counties will nominate 19 ex administration officers and 6 Kenya police officers. Nairobi, Mombasa, Kisumu, Kakamega, Busia, Nyeri, and Nandi are among the counties to nominate the 30 officers. This comes amid rising complains from the officers who claim they are being assigned guard duties at police stations and considered inferior. But a regional commander who sought anonymity said the training will play a great role in ensuring the 'combative' APs understand their new roles under the reforms. "The reorganisation is very good because it increased numbers of officers in general duties but we received a big number of officers with zero skills in what to do after apprehending a suspect. There are things that are trained at Kinganjo that are core to police work, that are not taught in any other police college and any one who has never been equipped with such training cannot perform general duties of a police officer at a police station," the regional commander said. "The board ought to have appreciated the fact that even GSU officers transitioning to KPS general duties have to go to Kinganjo for reorientation. NPS has three colleges with capacity to train 10,000 officers at any given time. "I know you cannot withdraw all the 23, 900 APs and take them for the training at the same time without leaving a security vacuum but you can take them in small numbers of say 5000. And the training can be done at any police college because all you need is spread the instructors from Kinganjo to the other campuses to teach the APs," he concluded.