The plane carrying the remains of 28 Kenyans who perished in the Ethiopian plane crash landed at JKIA on Monday morning. At least 32 Kenyans were on board in the Boeing 737-Max Ethiopian plane during the March 10 tragedy, which killed 157 passengers. The families of the victims of the crash were at JKIA early in the morning waiting for clearance. Hearses were lined up at the VIP gate. Families were cleared to collect the remains of their loved ones in the afternoon. Foreign Affairs CS Monica Juma said all the bodies were accounted for. She said the remains of 28 victims arrived, while for the remaining, some were cremated and others with dual citizenship were buried as per the wishes of their respective families. All passengers were insured. A preliminary report released in April indicated that the Ethiopian Airlines pilots wrestled with a computer system that repeatedly ordered the nose down because of faulty sensor data. The same system was a focus of the preliminary report into the October Lion Air crash in Indonesia, which killed 189 people. A Kenyan family had filed a lawsuit in Chicago in April against American aviation giant Boeing over the crash. George Kabau said he wanted to compel the company to release documents and emails relating to its 737 MAX 8 model, which was grounded worldwide after two major planes crashed in Ethiopia and Indonesia. In July, a Kenyan family told the US Congress that Boeing was yet to offer personal apologies to families of those affected by the Ethiopian Airlines plane crash. Paul Njoroge revealed that Boeing had only made their apologies before cameras, but hadn't reached out to the next of kin personally. "The airlines just sent letters of sympathy acknowledging their mistakes but didn't send their apologies," he said. But based on the Montreal Convention, each of the families of the Ethiopian Airline crash victims could receive as much as Sh17 million. The treaty,  adopted by the International Civil Aviation Organisation, stipulates that "if an airline is found at fault for an accident, each affected passenger is to get a minimum value equal to 113,100 special drawing rights". This type of plane crash compensation currently equals approximately $170,000  per passenger.