There was panic among travellers on the Lamu-Garsen road on Sunday after drivers spotted what looked like a grenade in the middle of the road at Mkunumbi area,Lamu West. The location is close to the Koreni Primary School is located,a stone throw away from the road. The device was discovered at around 9am by herders who then alerted the local administrators. A contingent of KDF soldiers and police were immediately dispatched to the area to ascertain what the device was. Lamu county commissioner Irungu Macharia said after collecting the device and destroying it in a controlled environment, the security personnel were able to ascertain that it was not an explosive but an old motor vehicle part that had been buried for quite some time. “As security, part of our training demands that we don’t take chances. Something might not be what it appears to be and that’s why we destroy any suspicious devices like this in a controlled environment. It’s only then that you can tell if it was an explosive or something else. We are glad this was just an old piece of a metal belonging to a vehicle,” Macharia said. Transport had been temporarily disrupted as motorists were afraid of driving over the device lest it explodes. Locals were also in a panic. Herder Hussein Ali who was the first to spot the device lauded security officers for their prompt response to their calls. He urged locals and road users to remove any fears as the security of the region was well contained by the various security units. The county commissioner lauded members of the public for being vigilant and reporting the incident to the police. “The fact that people are so keen even as they go about their daily duties that they can spot such things, gives us hope that nothing can go wrong. We are glad for that and we hope this relationship stays on so we can protect Lamu together,” he said. Mkunumbi area is just a few meters away from terror-prone Milihoi area,a renowned hotspot still on the Lamu-Garsen road where Al-Shabaab militants are notorious for planting Improvised Explosive Devices-IEDs in the middle of the road that have left tens of security officers and locals dead. The increased attacks at Milihoi prompted the government to establish a GSU camp in the area, a move that has seen the attacks disappear completely. Similar camps have also been set in other areas considered terror hotspots along the road including Nyongoro,Mambo Sasa and Lango la Simba all in an attempt to ensure the safety of travelers and other road users. Ends…