MPs will convene a meeting with KTDA to compel the agency to address tea farmers’ complaints over poor prices. Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua on Tuesday said if the Kenya Tea Development Agency does not address issues affecting farmers, they will introduce a motion in Parliament to throw its leaders out of office. He said in an interview on Kameme TV that there are more than 70 MPs from tea growing areas and they will force KTDA to institute reforms so farmers can benefit from their crop. The MP said KTDA will have no option but to increase the money paid to farmers per month per kilo of green leaf. Farmers are paid Sh15 out of which tea pickers take home Sh12, leaving the farmer with only Sh3. Gachagua disputed claims by the agency that prices in the world market were low and wondered why private farmers sold their tea for better prices than KTDA. Farmer should not also be compelled to cater for transportation cost of tea from the factories to the auction, he said. “Why can’t they sell the tea at the factory level and let buyers cater for the transport cost from the factory to wherever they want to take the tea?” he posed. The tea, he said, is sold by cartels at Mombasa auction who determine the prices of the commodity without any input from the farmer. He accused Trade CS Peter Munya and his Agriculture counterpart Mwangi Kiunjuri of sleeping on the job. Since the two were appointed to the Cabinet, neither has ever visited any tea or coffee factory to listen to farmers’ grievances, GAchagua said. They prefer operating from offices and boardrooms. He called on the two CSs to go to the ground and find out from farmers what is ailing the coffee and tea sectors. “We are over 70 MPs from tea and coffee growing areas and we shall have a sitting with the two Cabinet Secretaries and KTDA and if they will not address farmers challenges, we shall seek the help of farmers to force them to do so,” he said. The MP said KTDA must institute reforms as per farmers' demands. The demands include introducing one man one vote system as opposed to voting per shares owned.