Kenya’s Victor Wesonga has promised to stop Tanzanian Ramadhan Aly Kondo aka ‘Amoma Jackal’ when the two slug it out for the East and Central Africa Super Featherweight title at City Hall on Saturday. Wesonga, a product of the evergreen Kariobangi ranks and formerly with AP boxing team, says he’s determined to teach the Tanzanian a boxing lesson in the 10-round contest. Wesonga, whose record stands at six wins, one draw (six TKOs), also believes the fight will open the mighty doors for gigantic title fights in Europe and Asia. “I’m leaving nothing to chance at the weekend because my immediate plans, should this title fight come to fruition, is to challenge for the African Boxing Union title, the Commonwealth belt and ultimately the World Boxing Council which is by and large the world’s most prestigious belt,” said Wesonga. Having already taken some impressive scalps at home winning all his fights via TKOs, Wesonga is happy that he is finally making his debut in a regional title fight. Wesonga is currently shaping up at the Pal Pal Gymnasium under the tutelage of former Fatima Zarika-coach Julius Odhiambo. “I have always enjoyed jabbing all through and going the full distance. It just that TKOs come when least expected, that time when you feel you want to take it to a different level. This weekend I will be going for the kill hoping for the best in front of my home fans,” he added. “It’s my first major fight and it’s something I can not take lightly.” Kenya Professional Boxing Communication Chairman Reuben Ndolo said they are reviving grassroots boxing. “We are reverting to the famous national and regional fights which have been defunct for quite some time. The essence is to whip up the enthusiasm of pugilists at the grassroots,” he said. Like Wesonga, Kondo is an orthodox. He turned professional in Tanzania in 2016 and boasts of two wins, one loss and two draws. “I have monitored Kondo’s game and realised he is not a boxer but a fighter who keeps rushing for knock-outs. The plan is to make  him tired then counter attack him when he’s is out of power,” added Wesonga. Wesonga last fought in August 2018 in Thika where he handed Joshua Omukulu a third round TKO. He made his debut in pro boxing in December 2017 with a first round TKO victory against Ismail Noor. 