Chemelil Sugar will not honour today's top-flight fixture against Bandari despite orders by the Kenyan Premier League that the competition is on as usual. Chemelil coach Francis Baraza said their management had written to KPL to call off the match since the club lack the finances to make the long trip to Mombasa from their base in Kisumu County. "As you know, we have no money because the club has no sponsors. We depended on funds from KPL  and the company (Chemelil Sugar Company) but both have indicated they have no resources. As it stands, we will not be travelling for our match against Bandari," said Baraza. Chemelil are not the only club staring at the abyss as their neighbours Sony Sugar are equally facing a cash crisis and may not honour their match in Machakos against Tusker. The Awendo-based side gave out a walkover in their previous outing at home to AFC Leopards, sending shockwaves throughout the football fraternity as several other clubs crawled out of the woods in solidarity with Sony for the league to be suspended as the financial crisis bites. "Unfortunately we are yet to get sponsors like we had hoped. We are waiting to get a final response from the club managers then we cannot say with finality whether we will honour the match or not," Sony coach James Nandwa revealed. Nandwa himself has been away from the club in the build-up to today's clash lending credence to speculations that Sony will hand three free points to Tusker. The former Harambee Stars coach was back in his Nairobi home and attended the midweek National Super League matches at Camp Toyoyo. "All we are waiting for is communication from the management. As it stands we are all groping in the dark but still hopeful that we will find a solution to the situation the club finds itself in," he remarked. Should they, as it is increasingly likely, fail to take to the field today, Sony will be a match away from being tossed out of the league. According to rules and regulations governing the top flight league, a club faces financial sanctions that could amount to Sh1.5 million for three walkovers and then demotion to the National Super League.