The cohesion commission is on Thursday expected to question two ODM politicians over alleged hateful and inciteful remarks during the ongoing Kibra campaigns. Suna East MP Junet Mohamed and former Embakasi South's Irshad Sumra will appear before investigators at 10am and 11am respectively at the National Cohesion and Integration Commission offices. "The two are required to answer to charges on utterances made that threaten the social cohesion fabric among Kenyans," the commission said in a statement on Wednesday evening. The commission had earlier warned ODM politicians of their imminent arrest and prosecution over hateful and inciting remarks. Commission secretary Hassan Mohamed told the press at their Nairobi offices that investigations are at an advanced stage. "The commission is in receipt of a number of audio and video clips of politicians making what may amount to inflammatory statements," he said. The clips are currently being reviewed by the commission in conjunction with other agencies. Should the clips reveal violations of the law, the perpetrators will be held accountable, he said. Mohamed did not name the politicians being investigated but said they are well known "and their utterances were captured in clips doing rounds on social media". He said the NCIC has monitors deployed to some of these areas and they will take action. A week ago, a section of ODM politicians campaigning in the Kibra by-election scheduled for November 7 was captured on camera appearing to tell their supporters to mete violence on their opponents. Mohamed noted that campaigns in Kibra have been largely peaceful but said some politicians were using abusive language and inciting the electorate. Jubilee MPs have questioned the Directorate of Criminal Investigations and NCIC for laxity in taking action against the politicians. Mohamed also sounded a warning to social media users saying those found to be in breach of the NCIC Act will not be spared. "The commission is also monitoring social media platforms to ensure that these platforms are not used to incite violence or propagate hate speech or ethnic contempt," he said. Mohamed urged wananchi to maintain peace not just in the areas conducting the by-elections but countrywide. (edited by O. Owino)