Several bars have reduced their local beer prices to Sh159  as hours tick to World marathon record holder Eliud Kipchoge taking the Ineos challenge. Kipchoge, 34, will be attempting to run under two hours in a 42km race dubbed Ineos 1:59 challenge on Saturday in Vienna, Austria. Blackyz Lounge, Nairobi is one of the clubs that has reduced its local beer prices from Sh300 to Sh159. In a poster doing rounds on social media, the beers will be sold at the reduced price during the marathon hour on Saturday from 7am to 10am. Other clubs are Moran Lounge on Kiambu road will sells its beers at Sh159 on Saturday from 8am to 12pm. Cahoots pub, Nairobi will sell its beers at the reduced price  from Friday 11.50 pm till the end of the race on Saturday . Safaricom on Wednesday changed its M-Pesa logo for seven days to show their loyalty and support for  Kipchoge. "It's a great honour for Safaricom to be associated with this great man Eliud Kipchoge," acting CEO Michael Joseph said. "It is an immense honour and privilege to have the opportunity to dedicate our iconic M-PESA brand in honour of a befitting icon." The new logo has  five letters spelling Kipchoge’s first name, “Eliud” and the numbers “1:59” to denote the challenge. Deputy President William Ruto has cancelled a weekend rally earlier planned for Nakuru and left for Vienna to cheer on Kipchoge  as he makes history. Ruto left for Vienna on Thursday evening accompanied by his wife Rachel Ruto. In a tweet on Thursday, Rachel said they will fly to Vienna ahead of the race to celebrate their own. "We celebrate our own Eliud Kipchoge! Just like we did in 2017 in Monza, Italy, when he broke the world record running the marathon in 2:00:25, we will be there once again in Vienna, Austria, cheering him on as the greatest marathoner of all time," she tweeted. Also expected to watch the race live in Vienna are governors Stephen Sang (Nandi) and  Jackson Mandago (Uasin Gishu). If you don’t happen to find yourself in Austria on Saturday, you can still watch. All local stations on TV will air the race live from 7.20am. Supersport channel 8 on DSTV will also air the event live. Sports CS Amina Mohamed said the INEOS 1;59 challenge will be screened at KICC on Saturday from 7am. Entrance will be free Kipchoge came close to breaking two hours in 2017, during the  Nike sponsored  breaking event on a car racetrack in Monza, Italy, when he crossed the line in 2:00:25. Like that event, this attempt will not be record-eligible because of the number of pacemakers involved and the ability to take hydration and fuel delivered by supporters on bikes, among other variables.