After more than a month in custody, the High Court in Kisumu has released a hotel manager accused of shooting a bus official on bond. High Court Judge Fred Ochieng on Wednesday granted Daniel Jaoko, who denies the murder charges, a personal bond of Sh500,000 with two sureties of a similar amount. Justice Ochieng, however, directed the accused to report to the Kondele police station commanding officer on Tuesday every week. Jaoko was restrained from any direct or indirect contact with prosecution witnesses or family members of the murdered man. The accused has also been directed to reside at his house in Nyamasaria throughout the case. Ochieng said the bail is a Constitutional right and there were no compelling reasons laid before him to not grant it. “Although I was initially inclined to order that the accused should remain in custody until the prosecution witnesses who are civilians testify. I have come to the conclusion that Justice is best served by granting bond on appropriate terms,” he said. The prosecution had objected to the bail application citing life threats to the accused. Jaoko was released after probation officer William Onyango presented a pre-bail report in court that ruled out any threats to the accused person. “Having given the due consideration to the material placed before me. I hold the view that in the absence of any evidence that the accused is either threatened by the witnesses, relatives or friends the mere apprehension expressed by the family of the victim would constitute compelling reasons,” Ochieng added. The case will be heard on November 6. Last week, Ochieng ordered the probation officer to interview the investigating officer,  Jaoko and other relevant persons and provide a detailed pre-bail report in seven days. The report was to establish whether Jaoko is facing any form of danger from the public. The Ray Green Hotel manager is accused of murdering Peter Otieno Agola at Polyview Estate on August 17. Jaoko was remanded in Kodiaga maximum prison.