Private investigator Jane Mugo on Friday morning revealed at a Nairobi court that her life is in danger. Through her lawyers Cliff Ombeta and Dunstan Omari, Mugo told trial Magistrate Martha Mutuku that her life is being threatened by the investigating officers in the case and needs court's protection. "Our client’s life is in danger as she is afraid of the investigators in the case by the way they are treating her. We urge for the court's protection as we intend to reveal the context of the threats," the defence said. At the same time Mugo confirmed that she has already surrendered her gun and the certificate to the investigators at Kileleshwa police station. The court also heard that the spy's finger prints have been taken and a statement recorded at the DCI as earlier ordered by the court. However, Omari informed the court that the current charges facing the accused were in court again in 2014 but got dismissed. The prosecution has confirmed that they have since supplied the defence  with all witness statements and exhibits that they will be relying on. Last month, Mugo was charged with threatening to kill Deepa Shah Desmond at Kyuna close, in Spring Valley on February 4. She also faced a second count of threatening to kill Martin Mugusia in 2015 and according to court documents, the spy allegedly withdrew a pistol and threatened to kill the said complainant, an incident claimed to have occurred five years ago. Appearing before chief magistrate Francis Andayi, she pleaded not guilty and the court freed her on a cash bail of Sh300,000  with an alternative bond of Sh500,000. Before appearing in court for charging, Mugo disputed claims that she had been on the run since the Directorate of Criminal Investigations ordered her arrest in early September. The detective, chief executive of Trimo Security Limited, claimed she had been admitted to a Nairobi Hospital and was yet to receive summons to any police station and further said that she was not aware of any criminal case against her.