Human rights activist Boniface Mwangi has said Jubilee's candidate in Kibra by-election McDonald Mariga is not fit to hold teh seat. In a recent interview with Word Is, the photojournalist said Mariga running for Kibra parliamentary seat is a joke. "Our government is playing a very bad game. The reason why Jubilee chose Mariga is because he's Luhya and an ex-footballer. They are going for popularity, yet he lacks the substance and depth to be a member of Parliament. He lied about his age among other things," Mwangi said. The father of three added, "The level of leadership in this country has gone too low. What does Mariga represent and stand for?" " The kind of leaders we're electing are a joke and you can see the quality of debate Parliament has gone very low. Gone are the days of Anyang Nyong'o, Martha Karua, James Orengo, Paul Muite, the somber minds, who debated on important issues," he said. More than five young leaders were elected in the last general election but Mwangi isn't happy with all of them. "They are a big disappointment. The only young leader who did something that made us proud was Ken Okoth. He did an amazing job but for any other person who was elected, I haven't seen anything solid they've done. Ni kelele tuu [they just make noise]," he said. He advised the lawmakers to do what they were elected to do and stop the sideshows. "We never elected these leaders to Parliament to be calling for press conferences every time. They were elected to pass bills in Parliament and debate but they have become entertainers; from dancing at rallies and funerals and debating on TV." He endorsed his Ukweli Party candidate Editar Ochieng, a feminist born and bread in Kibra. "She stands a chance to lead the people of Kibra but people are focused more on Raila Odinga and [DP William] Ruto's parties. They go for colour, flamboyancy instead of focusing on the depth and substance and that's how voters end up electing bad leaders," he said. Mwangi e said that just because one is young doesn't mean that they can become good leaders. "It's a sad thing that we're going for popularity and decorated socialites instead of going for substance. Mwangi,  who unsuccessfully vied for the Starehe parliamentary seat, said he will be on the ballot in the 2022 General Election.