It was the only chance she had to liberate herself, with a possible life sentence staring at her. With fire in her eyes and valour in her voice, Eunice Njeri, who is facing a robbery with violence charge, grabbed the chance to defend her freedom. When she embarked on her defence on Monday, Njeri began with a long story of how a police officer whom she once dated turned against her. He arrested and framed her, she said. Njeri told court she was battling the charge in the name of love that long ceased to exist. “This is a love story that turned sour. I am innocent and this case is some sort of punishment for refusing to take back my ex-lover, the arresting officer,” she explained. Njeri told Kibera senior principal magistrate Barabara Ojoo that she had been in a love relationship with the arresting officer whom she only identified as Mohammed for a long time before they parted ways. She said the officer tried on many occasions to win her back but because of his behaviour, she kept turning him down and that was the cause of all her tribulations. ''He tried several times to get me back but I could not do that because of his behaviour which I could not stand. He swore to teach me a lesson,'' she told court. She said Mohammed found her in Kangemi in Nairobi one day and held her from behind and pushed her inside a police vehicle which he was driving. She had her baby with her. Njeri said the officer drove her in the vehicle around Loresho almost the whole day trying to convince her to take him back. "I was driven by Moha in a police vehicle urging me to love him. Sometimes he used persuasion and when it wasn’t bearing any fruit, he would use threats such as saying he would make life very difficult for me," she said. She said that evening the officer locked her up in a cell in Kabete police station together with her child and left. "I was saved by a female detective who gave me her mobile phone to call my mother who later came and picked my child," she said. Njeri said when Mohammed came back to see her and realized the child was missing, he called her a prostitute and that she had lured male officers to help her. “He sounded so angry. He brought some papers which he forced me to sign and took my fingerprints. The next thing I knew, I had been charged with this offence,” she said. In police records, Njeri is accused of robbing Thomas Mwavali of cash and electronics valued at Sh112, 000. The report states Njeri together with others not before court hit Mwavali with an iron bar before stealing from him. Mwavali told police that he left a club where he had gone to watch a soccer match at 1.30am. He said he took a short route through a neighbouring plot. “When I reached my house, someone pulled me from behind and others grabbed me, then they hit me with an iron bar. I blacked out but could hear a lady’s voice,” he said. Mwavali said the robbers forced open his door using a piece of iron bar and the lady with others started carrying away stuff from his house. The judgment is slated for October 31.