Kariobangi Sharks' defender Geoffrey Shiveka has praised his teammates for their strong-willed approach to their weekend match against Nzoia. Sharks came from a goal down to hold Nzoia United to a 1-1 draw at the Sudi Stadium. Sharks conceded an early goal in the game but fought back to equalise through Duke Abuya. “We have always had a good record at this ground (Sudi) but we have never found ourselves trailing on the scoresheet. After conceding a goal early on, we showed character by fighting back and grabbing the equaliser. Perhaps we could have gotten a second one but we were not sharp enough before the goal,” observed the no-nonsense centre back. “If there is anything positive to pick up from this draw, then the character in the team is the important one. We now just have to build on that,” added Shiveka. Sharks have endured a slow start to the campaign and find themselves closer to the bottom three in a campaign where they were expected to challenge for a first ever Kenyan Premier League title. William Muluya's men are down in 14th place with seven points. Sharks next match is a home fixture against fellow strugglers Zoo Kericho who are a place behind them in the KPL standings with four points. "This game will be a good opportunity for us to show the other part of our game, attacking. We started the season slowly  but I believe we have gathered momentum in the last few weeks. We should now be pushing for more points starting with the weekend match against Zoo,"noted Shiveka. Sharks have only managed a single win in their seven matches so far and that was against basement side Chemelil Sugar, who are yet to pick up a point this season. "The results are not a true reflection of our performances. I believe with a bit of luck, we will soon be on a good run. We know we are not where we want to be but it is up to us to change our circumstances," he concluded. Despite boasting of an array of attacking talent that includes Eric Kapaito, Abuya and Under-20 international Sydney LOkale and Harrison Mwendwa, Sharks have struggled for goals with a paltry return of five strikes in seven outings.