Deputy President William Ruto has dismissed claims that he is in a predicament over his stand the Building Bridges Initiative. Ruto was responding on Saturday to a front-page headline on the Nation which reported the DP was in a dilemma over the BBI and had no choice but to back President Uhuru Kenyatta on the report. The country's second in command trashed the notion saying that Jubilee as a democratic party accommodates divergent views over the report that has in recent months proved divisive across the political divide. The DP added that eventually, they will rally behind the party and its leader Uhuru Kenyatta. "DILEMMA?Hapana!No way! Jubilee as a democratic party celebrates diversity of opinion free of hate and focused on transformation for all; for us big or small matters BUT ultimately as initiators of inclusive non-tribal political discourse we will stand behind our Party and Leader," Ruto tweeted. The BBI has proposed the introduction of a parliamentary system of government with a powerful Prime Minister and two deputies, radically overhauling the current system of governance. The BBI team is against the winner-takes-all presidential system, largely blamed for political tensions and post-election violence. This week, Western, Central and Rift Valley legislators allied to Ruto have poked holes into the BBI setting stringent conditions for them to support the report. On Friday, Ruto-allied leaders in Western in the DP's presence said they will shoot down the BBI report if it will not deepen devolution. Speaking in Kakamega County, Mumias East MP Ben Washiali said the country is not ready for proposals that are meant to frustrate devolution. “How come it has taken this long to prepare this report? It appears to have an ill-intention for this country,” Washiali said. West Mugirango MP Vincent Kemosi questioned if the BBI team got genuine views from Kenyans. Likuyani MP Enock Kibunguchi said the BBI report would have to be exposed for public assessment before a decision on it is made. Sirisia MP John Waluke said BBI is a one-man game-plan that needs to be vehemently opposed. On Thursday, Mt Kenya MPs indicated that they will oppose the parliamentary system of governance should the BBI report propose so. The more than 30 legislators who addressed a press conference in Parliament buildings, said they will reject a proposal to either elect a Prime Minister or President in Parliament. The legislators who included senators and MPs said they will hold a meeting after Building Bridges Initiative has released its findings where they will give their input. On Wednesday, Rift MPs in Narok County said they would reject the report if its purpose is to create executive positions for a few individuals. The leaders noted that the report should prioritise the interests of the people as opposed to those of politicians. Belgut MP Nelson Koech said they would have no problem with the BBI report if its intentions are noble and of benefit to the people. However, he said they would not entertain a proposal whose sole purpose is to create executive positions for a few individuals. The BBI taskforce on Wednesday said that they exhausted their findings and will hand over the report to President Uhuru Kenyatta at the earliest possible opportunity. The taskforce held its last formal sitting this week at the Task-force secretariat where they finalised the report and communicated to the President's office.