A Malindi court has directed the Office of the DPP to file an official application on the transfer of the case against a Turkish billionaire charged with defilement and child prostitution. Elsek Osman had filed an application in the High Court to have the case transferred from Malindi to Mombasa. He accused chief magistrate Julie Oseko of bias and malice. Osman is out on bond. He was charged with 10 counts of defilement and child prostitution. Osman is accused that between February and October last year, he intentionally and unlawfully defiled a minor and compelled her and three others to massage his private part against their will, an act which was indecent. He is also charged with committing an indecent act with children by touching the breasts of the minors with his hands in Kikambala, Mtwapa, Kilifi county.  He denied wrongdoing. On Wednesday, the case was scheduled for an inter-party hearing but did not proceed as High Court Judge Reuben Nyakundi ordered the prosecution to file an official application. It will be heard on December 19. Prosecutor Alice Mathangani and Osman were present. Osman has also lodged a complaint with the Judicial Service Commission protesting against the conduct of the chief magistrate. He filed the complaint online after filing an application in court asking the court to transfer the case from Malindi. In the complaint filed on August 29, Osman claimed he saw conflicting reports in the court proceedings. He said he wants justice but is not happy in the manner in which the case is being handled. He cited differences in the typed proceedings and the handwritten ones. He said the written copy had many dots and statements and names of witnesses who do not exist. Osman also filed another application seeking an order of stay of his trial, pending the inter-party hearing. In an affidavit, he said his case was transferred from Shanzu law courts unlawfully, irregularly maliciously and with bias. “I understood maliciousness and bias of the court after I read typed, handwritten and certified proceedings that had additions, gaps/dots, empty pages, alterations and additions were not supporting the witnesses testimonies, my lawyers, oppositions and many other things," he said. Osman said on August 19, they appeared before the criminal registry of the Malindi law courts and filed an application with his lawyers but chief magistrate Oseko gave an immediate ruling recusing herself from the case and transferred the case to Court 2 in the same station. He said the ruling was done without hearing the parties and without considering his complaints contained in the application, including gaps in the proceedings, additions/alterations and missing testimonies and many others. "I believe the chief Magistrate will most likely influence Malindi Magistrate court number two because she is the head of all magistrate at the law courts," he said. The tycoon further said Oseko’s immediate recusal ruling and transferring of his case to Court 2 without hearing of parties supported his suspicion of malice and bias. Osman further said the prosecutor who argued the matter during the transfer of his case from Shanzu to Malindi was from the office of the DPP in Kilifi based in Malindi and not from Mombasa whose jurisdiction the case falls. "Why was the DPP of Kilifi was acting in the DPP of Mombasa's jurisdiction? This is also a big question," he said in his affidavit. The tycoon also said the transfer was done unlawfully against the Criminal Procedure Act chapter 75. “Before fresh trial starts we do not want  the same mistakes to continue and we pray that the magistrate court number two before accepting our case and starting the trial return our file back to Shanzu Magistrate court and prosecution to apply formally by Mombasa DPP to transfer the case within the jurisdiction of the local limits of the Shanzu law courts or if prosecution is willing to transfer my case outside the jurisdiction limit let the prosecution applied to the high court for transfer of the case legally and lawfully," he said in the affidavit dated August 29. The businessman says he is being targeted by powerful individuals to surrender his investments valued at more than Sh5 billion.