Any person found culpable of disrupting peace in Banissa subcounty of Mandera will be held personally responsible and dealt with lawfully, a peace forum has resolved. Communities in the subcounty also resolved to build mutual trust, harmoniously co-exist and share natural resources. The forum brought together Mandera county leaders, peace activists and residents in Banissa to calm tensions after attacks two weeks ago left 15 people dead. The three-day peace dialogue meeting was organised by the Regional Approaches for Sustainable Conflict Management project (Rasmi) and the Mandera administration. Political and religious leaders, elders and residents from the warring clans attended the meeting that began on Monday and ended on Wednesday. Banissa deputy county commissioner Noah Tanui welcomed the peace meeting and urged residents to stick to the resolutions agreed on for the sake of unity. “Let us be honest to ourselves and back our words with actions. Maintaining peace should be everyone’s business. We don’t want to have in our midst people who preach peace during the day and at night they are warlords,” he said. He warned that the government will act firmly on anybody hell-bent on breaking the law and causing insecurity. Rasmi programme manager Issa Mohamed said they have formed groups consisting of the youth, women, religious leaders, local authorities and peace committees. The groups will be in constant touch with each other and the residents to address any disputes arising from insecurity. County chief officer for Cohesion and Integration Harun Musdaf called on all the communities in the county to co-exist peacefully. Governor Ali Roba said during Mashujaa Day celebration that the county can ill afford to slide back to inter-clan clashes that claimed the lives of hundreds of people and displaced many more in 2013. “We refuse to go back to that painful state characterised by human suffering. The people of Mandera should know too well the price of conflict,” Roba said The government has so far arrested five people in connection with the killings and is still following crucial leads to apprehend others who will soon be arraigned. (edited by O. Owino)