More than 500 Taita Taveta Community Health Volunteers have been trained on Obstetric Vesicovaginal Fistula (VVF). The CHVs will be tasked with sensitising the community in an intensive campaign to end fistula, a condition that can affect the mental, physical, social and sexual life of a woman. In a partnership between the county government, Fistula Foundation and Bomu Hospital, patients will receive free screening and treatment. Speaking during the CHVs training at the Kenya Medical Training College in Voi, Bomu Hospital fistula field coordinator Safina Mwalimu said the campaign is geared towards eradicating the ailment through free screening and treatment. Safina urged the participants to identify those suffering from the ailment, pointing out that no woman should lead a life of misery for trying to bear a child. County Obstetrician and Gynecologist  Dr Deepak Parmar asked families not to stigmatise relatives suffering from fistula but instead visit the nearest health facility for treatment. Parmar said the county is listed among the hotspot areas with a high number of unreported cases of VVF. “We have positioned ourselves and taken the frontline in restoring the dignity of patients suffering from this kind of condition since it can be surgically repaired. In most cases, patients with vesicovaginal fistula have been forgotten and are living without hope,” Dr Parmar said. In Kenya, he said, at least 3,000 new cases are reported annually with only 7.5 per cent of the cases being treated. “This is attributed to under-reporting, poor or non-existent data keeping in most Kenyan hospitals hence these statistics are bound to be grossly inaccurate,” he added. He insisted expectant women to avoid giving birth at home to minimise chances of getting it and prevent any other infection to the mother and baby. “VVF is simply caused by unrelieved obstructed labour and delay in seeking emergency obstetric care where the woman experiences prolonged pressure of the baby's head against the back of the pubic bone,” he said. County community health coordinator Marriam Wakio said the campaign also aims at educating women on safe ways of avoiding fistula and sensitising the society to fight the stigmatisation of fistula patients. She urged the CHVs to be devoted to helping to restore the dignity of women suffering from fistula. Health Services executive Daniel Makoko said more focus will be placed on high volume health centres and grassroots level. “There are select areas that we shall focus our campaign on. Areas of Kasighau and Taveta are among the grassroots areas that CHVs shall be deployed to collect the data,” Makoko said. The CEC commended the partnership saying concerted efforts are required to eradicate fistula. Edited by R.Wamochie