The time has finally come after thousands of people auditioned for the chance to win East Africa’s got talent and with that a grand total of $50,000! As the semi finals come to a close we are left with our six semi finalists, so who do you think has a chance to win on Sunday? First to go through was the incredibly talented and confident Janell Tamara. From her first audition, the judges clearly saw someone with raw and complete musical prowess. While young, her choices in songs, her vocal range and stage spirit stood out and it was no surprise she got through to the finals. One tip given to her was to try and sing something a little more youthful and I for one am excited to see what she brings to the table. Keeping with vocalists, the second act to get through was the Jehovah Shalom Acapella group who serenaded the audience with a medley of songs. While also very skilled, it will be interesting to see how they do against the other singers and the arrangement they put together. One thing that we have seen from this series is the celebration of Africa and our cultures, and we have seen some amazing acts that showcased this. Intayaberana encompassed this completely. Their traditional dance was mesmerizing to watch and the pure joy on the children’s faces made the experience that little bit more special. One thing that EAGT has shown us is that while we have space for progress and modern music and art, our ancestor’s songs and dances are still deeply ingrained in us and it is our responsibility to ensure that future generations remember it too. One of the best vocal acts throughout the show, it was no surprise at all that Esther and Ezekiel made it to the final round. Though young, the brother and sister pair knocked it out of the park. Perfectly in harmony, perfectly in sync and showing a vocal range that any international star would be proud of – looking at you Ezekiel! That high note was the highlight of the entire series. The pair should be proud of their achievement and whether or not they win, they have a glorious musical career in front of them. What may be Jehovah Shalom’s greatest competition is the fantastic group Spellfast who sang a song celebrating unity. The performance was definitely one of the best on the show and kept everyone captivated by their stunning choreography, harmonies, dances and electrifying presence on the stage. Last to make it through is the comedic dance act DNA. I had called this from the beginning as their act was both entertaining and deeply moving. They managed to both make you laugh but also captivate you by their effortlessly perfect choreography.  They wrap up what is sure to be an amazing final. Who do you think is going to with East Africa’s got talent? Tune in this Sunday to see who takes the title and the amazing $50,000 cash prize. Make sure you also get your data in check. Safaricom has story ibambe. Safaricom has sorted you  out wih loads of data. For example, you will receive 200% Storo Bonus meaning that they will get back twice as much airtime as they spend. For more details and To check whether your assigned target, use the USSD code *460#  