A group of youth in Garissa is currently undergoing behavioural change training to gain skills with the aim of changing their perception of some issues affecting the community. The youths drawn from 30 wards across the county will, upon gaining the experience, move to their respective wards to counter the perceptions and the narratives being held by their community regarding FGM among other cultural practices and beliefs. According to lobby Kenya 28 Too Many, more than 97.5 per cent of women aged between 15 and 49 in North Eastern have undergone the cut. Aga Khan Foundation programme officer Zeinab Swaleh on Thursday said the youths will seek to address the thorny issue of extremism that is rampant and in which many youths from Northern Kenya and the Coast have been recruited especially during holidays. Swaleh said they expect the youths to bridge the gap between those in leadership and the community members while solving the issue of marginalisation and exclusion of some clans. The four-day camp will equip the youths with skills to transform the lives of other young people by identifying their potentials in various fields including talents. The project which is funded by the European Union and implemented by Aga Khan Foundation has benefited youths from Lamu and Garissa through mentorship programmes and career progression over the past 10 years. Abubakar Mohamed, a beneficiary of the programme, said youth from the region are easy targets for criminal and terror groups who entice them to join them with the promise of good returns. The youths, who are majority jobless and not engaged in any meaningful activities, easily fall prey, he said. Mohamed said such camps not only help to keep the youth engaged but also provide an opportunity for new talents to be identified and nurtured to something big. “We need to have policies and projects touching on the youth highlighted and given priority by both the national and county governments. Unfortunately, that is not happening,” he said. “Those at the helm of leadership should start seeing the youth as an asset and people who can change this country for the better because we have the knowledge and skills,” he added. Edited by R.Wamochie