 Busia residents have been urged to shun politicians who incite them against development projects. Water executive Isaac Alukwe and county director for trans-boundary water resources Gladys Wekesa on Friday said leaders inciting residents against megaprojects were anti-development and should be rejected. They spoke during the presentation of the Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) report for Kocholia Multi-Purpose Dam project at Hotel Levantes in Teso North. “The Sh5.8 billion Kocholia Multi-Purpose Dam will supply water to residents of both Teso North and Teso South subcounties. It will irrigate 3,000 acres of land and also have the component of hydroelectric power, fisheries, livestock and roads," Wekesa said. The dam will have a capacity of 43.3 million cubic metres with a proposed height of 34 metres. It will produce 1,091 kilowatts of hydroelectric power with some 500,000 Busia residents expected to benefit by 2044. The project is financed by Korean Exim Bank and the African Development Bank (AfDB) in partnership with both Busia county and the national governments. Wekesa said stakeholders opted to undertake the ESIA before a feasibility study and detailed design in order to look into social and environmental implications of the project as part of the requirements by the Korean donor. Alukwe said Teso region will also benefit from the Sh4.3 billion Ang'ololo Dam project that will be shared with Uganda. “When I took over as CEC, the department was very hostile. The governor contributed immensely to have the two NELSAP projects come to the county and residents need to give them their full backing,” Alukwe said. Speakers during the meeting supported the project and urged for more public participation to enlighten those still opposed to it. The meeting was attended by public works executive Okwara Ekirapa, education chief officer Daniel Mogoria and MCAs David Kokonya (Malaba South) and Job Oteba (Angurai East). They urged residents to support the project, saying it will come with many socio-economic advantages including employment creation.  edited by peter obuya