Good morning, A statement to the police by Opposition Chief Raila Odinga’s family over the mysterious death of their son has triggered bitter fallout with the widow that has now spilled to court. In an intriguing court case, Raila’s wife Ida Odinga and her daughter Winnie Odinga are seeking to block the widow of the late Fidel Odinga, Lwam Getachew Bekelle, from getting the right to solely administer her late husband’s estate. In the court papers seen by the Star, Bekelle claims a statement Ida recorded with detectives from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations regarding Fidel’s death was at the heart of their  fallout. Here are the other stories making headlines in the Star this morning. A parliamentary oversight committee has recommended that five current and former governors be investigated and prosecuted over the loss of public money. Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua and former county chiefs Cleophas Lagat (Nandi) and Samuel Ragwa (Tharaka Nithi) have been named for investigations. Siaya Governor Cornell Rasanga and former Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero should be surcharged on recommendations of the committee. If the government thought it would deter youths from betting by taxing their winnings, it did not see this one coming. Gamblers living along the border with Uganda have simply exported their betting to ensure they get value for their money. “In Uganda, the issue of 20 per cent withholding tax is not there, so you get your money. You stake and you get the expected earnings,” Hillary Etyang’, who owned a gaming account with Kenya’s former betting giant SportPesa, told the Star in an interview. A member of the family that lost a mother and daughter in the September 29 ferry tragedy has recorded a police statement as investigations gather pace. This brings to six the number of people who have recorded statements about the accident that highlighted the need to improve and enforce safety measures by the Kenya Ferry Services. Likoni police boss Benjamin Rotich told the Star on Monday that more people will record statements if necessary. Improved data collection and publication is important in the fight against diabetes, the Ministry of Health has said. Doctors have been asked to facilitate the process by documenting data collected in health facilities and sharing it with the national health data registry. Zachary Muriuki, national programme officer, Diabetes Prevention and Control Program, Division of Non-Communicable Diseases at the Ministry of Health, made the announcement yesterday. President Uhuru Kenyatta is tomorrow expected to commission  the second phase of the Standard Gauge Railway, finally bringing to operationalisation of the rail between Nairobi and Suswa after a five-month delay. Commissioning of the 120.49 kilometres (Phase 2A) project will see Madaraka Express passenger and freight services  commence.