The hearing of an appeal filed by Kibos Sugar Company which was saved from shutting down begins with the company claiming that they were given a clean bill of health over pollution. The hearing was heard before a three bench judge, Justice Milton Makhandia, James Odek and Patrick Kiage on Wednesday. The Kibos Sugar and Allied Industries Limited through their lawyers want the Appellant court to administer or consider two documents by Nema and Kisumu County Assembly Committee on Water, Environment and Natural Resources report as new evidence. In July, the Environmental Court in Kisumu had ordered the factory to be closed for discharging raw effluent into River Kibos in Kisumu. The Court ruled that the company's Environmental Impact Assessment licence was acquired illegally. However, their lawyer Tom Ojienda in his application noted that the two critical documents gave a clean bill of health to their client noting that they were in compliance to environmental regulations hence this will support their appeal. Ojienda stated that that new evidence will help them clear orders that they obtained its license illegally. “We want to introduce additional fresh evidence in the case a report by the two entities which was not ready by the time the trial court was making its ruling, hence the filling of this application, “he stated. This was supported by lawyer James Orengo who was representing the Kisumu County Government in the case saying that the evidence was in possession of the trial court. Three Kisumu East residents, Benson Adega, Eric Ochieng’ and Bether Opiyo, sued the sugar factory in October last year. Kibos Sugar and Allied Industries Ltd was listed as the first respondent together with Kibos Power Limited (second), Kibos Distillers Limited (third), Nema (fourth) and the Kisumu government (fifth). This was however opposed by the respondents through their lawyer Fred Ngatia who noted that it was suspicious the county assembly committee toured the premises days after the trial court concluded the case and gave its orders. Ngatia urged the court to dismiss the application noting that it was questionable, at the same time not authentic. The judges will give a ruling on October 9 whether the said documents in question requested by the appellant will be considered as part of evidence in the court. In the suit, residents had complained for many years over the pollution of the river, whose water they use for domestic purposes. They lived in fear of diseases. The residents said their right to a clean environment had been violated. They accused Kibos Sugar, Kibos Power and Kibos Distillers of polluting the environment. Justice Stephen Kibunja issued an order of permanent injunction restraining the company from continuing with operations. He said they must first carry out EIA studies and submit the report to Nema for approval for a fresh licence. The judge also ordered the defendants to demolish unapproved structures on land LR No 654/23 and 11273 in Kibos, to restore the environment to its original status. “Should they fail to obtain fresh EIA licences in 120 days, and should they fail to comply with the restoration order, the petitioners are hereby authorised to appoint an auctioneer to carry out the said restoration order and recover the costs from the first to the third respondent,” Kibunja said. The company's lawyer, Charles Onyango, said the factory employs more than 9,000 people and has an obligation to its clients and suppliers, including cane farmers. “If the order of injunction is immediately enforced, it will result in unwanted consequences," he said.