Persons living with disability caused drama after being denied a chance to air their grievances during Mashujaa Day celebration in Eldama Ravine town, Baringo county, on Sunday. Polio survivor John Ng’etich, 58, was knocked down on the mud, beaten and whisked away by merciless county askaris when he asked to address the public. “Given the opportunity, I just wanted to remind the government that it has forgotten to remit the funds for the disabled people for so long,” Ng’etich said. In attendance were Governor Stanley Kiptis, Tiaty MP William Kamket and county commissioner Henry Wafula. Governor Kiptis ordered the security men to stop beating up the man and offered him a chance to address the public. But he declined, he no longer had the courage to speak after the shameful treatment. “ I was not feeling well but the askaris roughed me up, wrestled me down on the muddy ground and beat me in front of many people including children…I felt so embarrassed,” he said. Ng'etich urged the relevant authorities to take up the matter and punish the people who assaulted  him. He sells newspapers in Eldama Ravine town for a living and works as a PLWD rights defender. “I am jobless. I wish someone would have pity on me and offer me job or buy me a cow or a plot to built myself a house to stop payinh rent,” Ng’etich told the media. The agitated man collected his bundle of newspapers, boarded a boda boda and went back to his business, cursing the county government for marking the day without recognizing PLWDs. Another disabled person Victor Kiptanui, 25, emerged from the crowd amid Governor Kiptis’s speech and demanded immediate release of funds for the PLWDs. “Please governor, don’t end your speech without mentioning our money,” he shouted. Richard Cherutich, who uses a wheelchair in Kabarnet town, also lamented being denied means of transport to attend the Mashujaa day in Eldama Ravine, about 50km away. “It means nobody cares about us and we always feel our rights are being violated,” Cherutich said. In September 2017, the PLWDs in Baringo moved to court to challenge the lack of a nominee to both the county executive and the assembly, saying they were being neglected. The marginalized group lost the case after lacking the money to hire a lawyer to champion their petition. "We thought the law is there to protect our rights but it is being violated by the physically fit everyday,” Cherutich said. Caroline Kemboi, former vice chair of the national council for PLWDs said they need someone who understands their problems.