AFC Leopards hope to move to a point within the reach of their arch-rivals Gor Mahia when they play Sofapaka tomorrow in this weekend's Kenya Premier League highlight. Leopards have defied their financial struggles to trail Gor by four points and will be out to keep close tabs with the league leaders who are not in action this weekend.  The match, dubbed as 'Cats Derby' will be played at the Narok Stadium. The two sides have met 24 times since Sofapaka's promotion to the top flight in 2009 with Batoto Ba Mungu winning eleven, two more than Leopards. Five duels have ended evenly. The last match ended 1-0 in favour of Sofapaka. Prior to the match, Wazito will host Posta Rangers from the same venue. Today, Kariobangi Sharks will be seeking their sixth win over Nzoia when they visit them at the Sudi Stadium. Sharks have convincingly won five of the last six meetings and shared spoils once. William Muluya's charges have savoured victory once in six matches this season to sit 14 while their opponents who saw off Sofapaka 2-1 last weekend, have gathered seven points and they are placed 12th. Chemilil Sugar will return to action today when they host Kakamega Homeboyz after dishing out a walkover last weekend to Bandari. The sugarmen failed to honour their match away in the coast, citing lack of money. However, they have confirmed their presence in today's match where they will be pursuing their first win of the season. “I can confirm we will play today. It's a home match and the expenditure is pocket-friendly as opposed to our last weekend budget. The boys have trained throughout the week and are looking to end their winless jinx,” said coach Francis Baraza Similarly, Sony Sugar will also honour their clash against debutants Kisumu All-Stars a the Awendo Green Stadium. Sony are a walkover away from being relegated to the second tier after giving their last matches away to Tusker and AFC Leopards a wide berth. “The match will be played. The players resumed training in the course of the week.” said the club's team manager Willis Waliaula. KCB will also be looking to move to a point within the reach of defending champions Gor Mahia when they play Zoo Kericho at the Kenyatta Stadium, Machakos. The bankers are perched fourth with 11 points, four shy of Gor while Zoo are placed 15 with four points. Coach Robert Matano will be out to serve his former employer Ulinzi Stars with bitterness when the former champions lock horns at the Afraha Stadium. Tusker have recovered from a false start to scale to two points shy of Gor, while the injury-hit Ulinzi have bagged nine points to place tenth.