Lake Victoria South Water Works Development Agency acting CEO George Odede has denied allegations of delaying payments of contractors. Odede dismissed the allegations as untrue and unfounded. He demanded to know specific contractors that have had their payments withheld beyond the contractual limit. “This could help me confirm the veracity of claims. It is unkind to impute ill motive on my person and on the board of directors as people on sale, even from a moral perspective,” Odede said. The acting chief executive officer added verification must be done before any payments are made. This is after some contractors alleged that he was deliberately withholding their payments. The contractors, who spoke on condition of anonymity, demanded that their files be released from Odede’s office to expedite payments. “He should explain why he has got hold of the files instead of fast-tracking our payments,” a contractor said. The agency has been facing a leadership crisis following the appointment of Odede by Water CS Simon Chelugui as the acting chief. Odede was hired to replace Daniel Oronje who was also in acting capacity after the expiry of former CEO Petronilla Ogut’s term. Ogut was sent on terminal leave on July 1 to allow the recruitment of a substantive boss. Oronje was appointed by the board of directors chaired by Paul Bii a few months after being made acting technical manager. Chelugui appointed Odede during the ongoing recruitment process of a new CEO. He denied that he hired Odede irregularly. Kisumu resident Michael Oyiembe, through his lawyer Owiti Mwalo Odhiambo,  said the appointment was against the law. He said it is a requirement for persons being appointed as CEO to be staff within the corporation. Oyiembe, in a petition dated September 11, termed Odede's appointment as unprocedural.  He wants it quashed. But the Water minister said he acted according to the law when he appointed the former technical manager of Lake Victoria North Water Works Development Agency. He said the Water Act stipulates that a person who is an employee of a water services board can be deployed, as may be determined by the Cabinet Secretary, to public sector institutions or to the county governments. Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi last week demanded urgent action to end the crisis. The parliamentary Public Accounts Committee chairman said the wrangles have disrupted operations. “I have learned with astonishment that routine operations at the agency have virtually ground to a halt due to a leadership crisis,” Wandayi said in a statement. Edited by R.Wamochie