When he is not dressed in expensive suits, dashing from one courtroom to another in search of justice for the downtrodden, Shadrack Wambui, 28, is in boxing gloves in the slums, training as an amateur boxer. The fast-rising young lawyer from Mathare is a member of the Kayole Wings Miller Boxing Club. He has participated in several tournaments and gotten several medals to his name. He is an amateur boxer and he has no dreams of going pro, but he loves the sport so much that he makes time to go for training, and it has really helped him to stay sane. “Growing up in the ghetto, I used to be in fistfights, and you have to learn how to defend yourself. That inspired me to get to martial arts skills,” Wambui said. The lawyer says he progressively admired boxing and became serious with it when he was in campus because he needed something to cool his ‘demons’. He started in Ongata Rongai boxing club and later joined his current club Kayole Miller Boxing club in 2015. That’s where he met his late Coach Muchoki Mwangi, who mentored him, and sometimes he would even send him money for upkeep when he was in law school. “People who know me say that I respond quickly to criticism with blows. I just became civilised the other day through schooling, but now due to boxing, you can insult me and I will walk away,” he said. Wambui, who trains alongside his younger sister, says he needed to tame all that energy because he used to respond to everything using blows. On Saturday we got a chance to see him training alongside other club members at Kayole Community Centre where youths from the ghetto meet every weekend to train in a bid to curb crime. The lawyer, who has rubbed shoulders with who is who in the corridors of justice, mingled freely with his friends in Kayole. Dressed in a tracksuit and a T-shirt with the inscriptions, ‘Made in Mathare’ and ‘Boy wa Wambui’, and sneakers, Wambui was not shy to share with us his humble beginnings. His clubmates, who have been training with him, showered him with praises, telling us he was a source of inspiration to them and they are encouraged by what he has accomplished, having been brought up in the ghetto. The team train for an average of two hours, after which they share and get to know how each one is doing in life and encourage each other to keep striving for success. Wambui, who is also pursuing his Masters of law degree, encouraged them to continue working hard and be excellent in whatever profession they are in, telling them that at long last, it would pay off. As he drove out of the Kayole Community Centre, he stopped for a moment to buy ghetto ice popsicle for everyone, and he also took one for himself. “Such sweetness can only be found in the ghetto,” he said.