High Commissioner of Kenya to the UK , Manoah Esipisu has said giving terrorist headlines in the digital communication is providing them a source to mileage their threat to the world. Esipisu said communication platforms will play a big role in combating terrorism. "Digital communications platforms, and particularly social media and messaging applications, will need to be far more responsive to quickly detecting and quickly taking down the terrorist and extremist content," he said. Esipisu spoke on Thursday to the Court of St James’s at the Institute for Strategic Studies in London on Kenya's role in creating stability in the East Africa region. He said there is need to close off religious spaces to militant extremists and their ideology. Esipisu said countries that sponsor various forms of extremist interpretations of religion or identity, beyond their borders will need to be reined in. "Countries need to build their abilities to safely deal with foreign terrorist fighters returning to their countries of origin after they have engaged in hostilities," Esipisu said. "The aim of Al-Shabaab is simply to take over the governance, and if possible the regional and national governments, of Somalia." He said countries need to continue showing that global fight is far from over and that stepping down from it will compromise all other aspirations as countries and as a global community. "Let me warn that there will be no end to major forced migration and massive internal displacement provided global terrorist groups like Al Qaeda and ISIS can support or inspire strong local affiliates," he said. He added that building bipartisan accord between those in government and the political opposition after a very fractious electoral season will create inclusive governance, hence no loophole for terrorism, giving an example of BBI In Kenya. "We have a Building Bridges Initiative that is a bold home-grown approach to strengthen our unity. Looking at the rest of the world, I believe this is the direction we should all be taking". During the talk, Africa series convenorDr. Andrew Tchie applauded Kenya for being a regional hub for steering peace initiatives.