The political class will fight the two-thirds gender principle as long as there is no political cost, but it’s an eventuality they cannot escape, says Crawn Trust executive director Daisy Amdany. Amdany is a leading women’s rights specialist who has continually fought for the implementation of the two-thirds gender principle. Her non-profit organisation Community Advocacy and Awareness (Crawn) Trust specialises in issues including civic education, community empowerment and sustainable development approaches. She spoke on why it is taking Kenya so long to implement this principle while countries such as Rwanda and Ethiopia are ahead; what the sunset clause is all about, and the role of the civil society in pushing for the principle’s realisation. Why do you think the two-thirds gender principle hasn’t been implemented since the promulgation of the 2010 Constitution? Impunity. Kenya is a nation steeped in impunity, where the rule of law only applies in so far as it does not disrupt the elite consensus on who holds power and how it is wielded. Furthermore, there is no political cost to short-changing women as citizens of this country, for women have not been able to translate their numerical strength into political capital to negotiate for space on the political landscape. Even the women currently in political leadership, few actually attribute their presence there to the women’s movement’s fight for that expanded space but rather see it as their political acumen or, at best, as a result of political patronage from the political leaders within their parties. As such, they do not fight for the implementation of the two-thirds gender rule but even tragically say the same things that the men say about women’s right to representation. As a result, the male political elite know and understand that they lose nothing by not implementing this principle. Why is it that Rwanda and Ethiopia seem to be getting it right compared to Kenya on having equal representation? Are there any lessons we can borrow? Interestingly enough, Rwandan Paul President Kagame’s Gender Adviser for close to 10 years was a Kenyan, Dr Okatch Abagi. So clearly, President Kagame is a man who is committed to making a change in his country and values the participation and inclusion of women. Although I cannot say much about Ethiopia as I have not studied their model of governance, what I do know is that there are many Ethiopian women working at very high levels at the international level and so they have a pool that they can draw from of women who can guide the country’s development agenda. Take for instance President Sahle-Work Zewde, who is the current President. She was a career diplomat, having worked at the United Nations, the African Union, Igad, among others. She is therefore very accomplished and is obviously capable of handling such an office. We should try having more women in positions of authority so that we give the perception that women are valued in Kenyan society. For now, the status of women in Kenya is very low and that value is lacking. What or who do you think is the biggest impediment in actualising the two-thirds gender principle and why? Plain and simply, a lack of political will and brazen impunity, where the leadership at the highest level does not feel that it is bound by the laws and the Constitution. There is discussion on the sunset clause. What does it mean and how does it feature in the two-thirds gender principle implementation? The not more than two-thirds gender principle is a requirement and stands in perpetuity. However, to redress any disadvantage suffered by individuals or groups because of past discrimination, the Constitution requires that the state take legislative, policy and other measures, including affirmative action programmes. Affirmative action measures are policies and actions used to improve opportunities for groups that are commonly and historically discriminated against. They are not meant to be permanent measures but are put in place for a time period, until such time the inclusion of those groups becomes a norm in society. That is what the sunset clause is about. So you cannot prescribe a sunset clause for the two-thirds rule as it stands in perpetuity that in the Republic of Kenya, you shall not ever have, in elective and appointive office, more than two-thirds of the same gender. The worst-case scenario is one third, the best case 50:50, with the tipping point being two thirds. So once affirmative action measures are put in place, there should of necessity be a sunset clause. But before the clause comes into effect, there should be a review to see if there has been change and the problem no longer exists. What is the role of civil society and that of Wanjiku in this issue? For an effective democracy, the most important thing is vigilance by the citizenry and their ability to hold the leadership accountable. Civil society has the role of educating the citizens to understand the role of the duty bearers and as rights holders, hold them accountable. They must also push back against the erosion of their rights and the excesses and abuse of power. Your advice for the ruling class on implementing the two-thirds gender principle? Follow the Constitution and put in place the legislative framework to give life to Article 27 ( 8 ). What is Kenya’s way forward out of the two-thirds gender principle stalemate? For us, we are not going to stop pushing. We will continue to go to court and get the court orders, despite them being ignored. We shall speak and continue with all our advocacy efforts, including mobilising citizens to reject any notion of removing the two-thirds gender principle. We are not going away and we will not stay silent. What do you think of the Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill 2019 by Uasin Gishu woman representative Gladys Shollei*? [*The Bill proposes women representatives be increased from the current 47 to 136. The 89 additional female lawmakers will be elected from designated constituencies to be decided by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission, the bill states. Shollei also wants nomination slots to the National Assembly increased from 12 to 22.] We welcome every effort to implement the two-thirds gender rule. For those saying it will increase numbers and dent the wage bill, we have proven by the study we commissioned through the IEA that representation is not the culprit. Wastage, corruption and duplication of roles are exacerbating the wage bill. Those who think Shollei is unreasonable should table a reasonable bill that will resolve the two-thirds gender principle quagmire so that we move on to fighting for 50:50. Maria Wanza is a communications consultant and actress