“We are still confused about this whole thing. We don’t know how our harmless son could be taken from our home here and later his body be recovered in Embu." These were the words of the elders, gathered in groups when the Star visited the home of the murdered Machakos priest Michael Kyengo at Katangini, Tala, on Thursday. The 40-year-old priest disappeared from his parents’ Tala home on October 5 and his body recovered on October 16 from a riverbed in Mbeere South, Embu County. His disappearance was reported to the KBC police station on October 7. The body was mutilated, stashed in a sack at buried in the river bed. Clearly, struggling to reconcile with the finality of the news of the gut-churning killing of their kin, the elders-men and women seated separately-were cold, deflated, and speechless, treating any stranger streaming into the home with loud suspicion. With blank stares and awkward prolonged silence, the elders would not engage in any conversation, treating any unknown person visiting them as “a possible suspect in the killing of their kin.” “How can we be assured that you are not among those who killed our son? We cannot give any information to strangers,” one of the elders, speaking on behalf of the group, said. They even refused to introduce themselves. Depicting the fallen priest as a humble, selfless man of God devoted to the church, the elders said they had completely ‘donated’ him to the church, asserting that they did not have much details on his life. The elders, however, told the reporters that Kyengo’s mother alongside his siblings had been picked early in the morning by detectives from Machakos to record statements and attend the post-mortem examination at Montezuma Monalisa funeral home within the town. A Dr. Njeru conducted the autopsy at the facility and the family was led by a Father Maundu of Catholic Church, Machakos parish. Located approximately three kilometers from Tala town along Tala-Thika road sits the deceased parents’ quiet home-where the relatives and friends are gathering for planning-fenced with kei-apple and the black gate remains closed. Kyengo’s parents’ main house remains incomplete at lintel-level, it is suspected that the deceased was funding its construction. The road leading to the home from the tarmacked main road is of red soil, suggesting that it would be dusty during dry season and slightly muddy when it rained. Senior police sources from the county told the Star that the matter had been referred to the homicide department at DCI headquarters in Nairobi. The detectives, however, expressed their confusion on how to pursue the matter as little was known about the reserved priest. “This person was not a politician, neither was he a businessman nor had [nuclear] family. We are equally wondering what the motive of this [heinous] killing could be,” the source said, requesting his name be withheld. According to known investigation detectives report, Kyengo was murdered where his body was recovered, his car was traced to the Coast region and a suspect arrested in connection with the incident. Reports also indicate that a substantial amount of money had been withdrawn from the deceased account by the suspected killers. Kyengo was serving as an assistant priest at Thaka Catholic priest in Masinga sub-county in the county. 