Private security firms have been collecting millions of shillings from clients but end up paying peanuts to their contracted guards, a House committee heard on Tuesday. National Assembly committee on delegated legislation heard that some rogue security firms receive as much as Sh50,000 per guard every month but only pay them a meager salary of Sh8, 000 — a figure mentioned by the workers — with the rest said to cater for "company’s logistics". Interior PS Karanja Kibicho termed the move unfair labour practice, which will be addressed by the Private Security (General) Regulations, 2019 coming into effect on January 5, 2020. “We have responsibilities to look at both the interests of the guards and the employer. It is not fair that the consumers pay Sh50,000 but guards only get Sh5,000 from the companies,” Kibicho said. The PS was appearing before the committee chaired by Gladys Shollei (Uasin Gishu) over the Private Security Regulations. Earlier, the guards under their umbrella union – Kenya National Private Security Workers Union – shared their ordeal in the hands of employers, whom they accuse of focusing on their profits with no regard for the welfare of the guards. KNPSWU national General Secretary Isaac Andabwa told the committee of over 200 cases this year where pregnant guards were dismissed the moment the firms learnt they were expectant. “Private security is about the guard. Employers only think about their profits and nothing to do with the person who stays in the sun and cold night,” Andabwa said. Appearing before the committee, a consortium of private security firms asked for more time for the implementations of the regulations which amongst other issues seek to set a minimum wage of guards at Sh27,000 a month. The government’s six months deadline elapses in January next year. The firms, instead, want the government to give them up to 2024 to fully comply. They further argued that key stakeholders were not involved in developing the regulations, saying the government only conducted public participation in Nairobi county. The security firms warned of massive job losses should the government continue with the implementation of the regulations in January. Currently, 2,000 security firms have employed more than 500,000 guards. Kibicho said the Interior ministry is flexible to talks around the deadline but noted that any extension should be reasonable.