Senators on Wednesday expressed mixed reactions over the introduction of the Hawkers Bill. While some said the bill, popularly known as the ‘Street vendors protection of livelihood bill’, is the best way the country can deal with the street vendors. The bill originated by Murang’a Governor Mwangi wa Iria and moved in the Senate by Kirinyaga Senator Charles Kibiru intends to regulate and allocate designated areas for the hawkers to operate. The bill in its second reading further aims at creating effective organisations for the hawkers with strict guidelines on areas of operations. The bill seeks to see all hawkers registered, formally recognised and designated in areas where customers can easily access them. If it passes, the hawkers are to be allocated specific days and streets where they can operate. The bill will also see hawkers selling food separated from those selling other wares. “This bill will see the hawkers conform to certain rules and regulations. For instance those dealing with food will be expected to produce health certificates before they are licensed,” Kibiru said while moving the motion. Despite having all the venders registered and regulated in a central office in Nairobi, we want the national government with its designers to consider those hawking on the lines marked for infrastructure development,” he added. According to Kibiru, designated areas must have clean running water, with clean sanitary facilities like toilets and urinals. “This will be one way for counties to maximise on income generation and help KRA in closing in on taxation gap,” he said. Isiolo Senator Fatuma Dullo in support of the motion said hawkers remain the people who have suffered great violation by county officials. She said many are forced to operate in pathetic areas without toilets, water and electricity because they are regarded as criminals. But Bungoma Senator though supporting the bill said as it is currently, it has several clauses that need review. Bungoma Senator Wetang'ula said the committee in charge of the bill should be careful not to surrender the authority of county governments to national government in the process. Wetang'ula said it is common knowledge that hawking is an age long trading system but unfortunate the vendors subjected to extreme harassment daily. "Mr Speaker petty trading is hundred percent devolved. Licensing and levying of vendors is an exclusive reserve of the county governments and thus the bill cannot purport to say all hawkers be registered under the CS Trade,” Wetang'ula said. Wetang'ula argued that each county and town has its own uniqueness and thus national registry may pause a challenge in terms of identifying what needs to be in a certain jurisdiction. “This bill has not explained on how to balance interests of formal traders and hawkers. There are no clear guidelines on these areas with rising concerns from those with businesses and shops being displaced by hawkers,” he said. Wetang'ula said it was unfortunate that streets like commercial street, biashara, grogon and river road had been allocated to street vendors under the Africanisation plan but those who were in charge rather tribalised the entire plan. “Mr Speaker these bill must further clearly state that designated areas are not avenue for counties to mint money from hawkers. Charges must be reasonable to allow hawkers earn a living and in addition to that they must stipulate penalty for criminal consequences for askaries who battle and injure the hawkers,” Wetangula said. Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala in his sentiments said the bill should not just be about selling belts, socks or fruits but there must be a fund to empower the hawkers. Malala said placing hawkers under Trade CS would create a way for national government to micro-manage the counties. His sentiments were echoed by Senator Cheruyoit who said the hawkers have been branded as criminals. He said as a result, they live in constant panic and restlessness, always on alert not to be humiliated by county officers. But Majority Leader said the senate should allow the bill to pass but only intervene on clauses that have misgivings. This he said will provide a chance for the business community to regain their dignity. “Senate has a responsibility to regulate on standards that cuts across the country. This will provide room for the hawkers to form trade unions and organised leadership,” Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Murkomen said.