TSC has banned teachers involved in previous cases of examination cheating from administering this year's KCPE and KCSE. Teachers Service Commission CEO Nancy Macharia said the decision was taken to combat cheating. In this year's exams, 1,088,987 learners will sit KCPE while 689,746 will sit KCSE. It is four years since the introduction of stringent measures to weed out rampant examination cheating that had affected the integrity of the tests prior to 2016. The measures were introduced by the then Education CS Fred Matiang'i. TSC records indicate since adoption of the measures, some 160 teachers involved in exam malpractices have been flagged, investigated and some punished. "All those who are contracted to administer the exams have to be registered by the TSC whether in public or private schools," Macharia said on Monday. She spoke during the issuance of safety padlocks to officials that will secure the exams set to begin at the end of the month. The padlocks will be used to secure 479 containers to be used to store the examinations at the subcounties. TSC has cancelled leave for its staff to give time for proper preparation for the exams. In this year's exams, 179,149 teachers will be involved in management of the tests. TSC says 28,000 will be head teachers who also double up as centre managers while 145,429 will be supervisors and invigilators. Another 33,720 will be involved in marking. LOOPHOLES The government has raised concern over collusion between schools and examination officials to cheat soon after collecting the papers from safety containers. Education CS George Magoha yesterday gave examples of Northern Kenya and Migori as hotspots where such collusion led to exam leakage and cancellation of results. To correct this, the ministry yesterday gave stern orders to head teachers to adhere to the start and finish time of every paper. Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiangi yesterday warned police officers who will be involved in the exercise against lapses during the distribution of materials and the actual sitting of examinations. To have real-time updates on the exercise, both the Education and Interior ministries will have a command and control centre based at Harambee House. This years's national examination will begin with assessment of orals and practicals on October 21 to 25. KCPE will take place between October 29 and 31 October. KCSE papers will be sat between November 4 and 27. CHALLENGES The examination council says it has embarked on a security assessment that will inform about challenges that might affect the exams. In particular, Knec is concerned with the security in some areas that could lead to displacement of learners. Adverse weather effects such as heavy rain or floods are also part of the ministry's concerns over a smooth examination process. Interior CS Fred Matiang'i yesterday said the gvoernment will airlift examination materials to any areas that will be affected.