Boda Boda operators in Lamu have protested a move by activists and community organisations to collect signatures to eject them from the historic Old Town. Lamu Old Town is a heritage site listed by Unesco in 2001 owing to its well-preserved culture and Swahili culture. Activists say the presence of the motorcycles in the Old Town has greatly undermined the town’s status as a world heritage site. Unesco is threatening to delist it. Lamu has about 200 boda bodas, but donkeys are the only legal means of transport, except for emergency vehicles. The campaign Restore Heritage is led by the Save Lamu organisation and more than 20 other activist groups and Community Based Organisations. They aim to collect more than 1,000 signatures to drive the motorcycles out of town. The signatures will be forwarded to Governor Fahim Twaha, county commissioner Irungu Macharia and the area OCS. A World Heritage site must be an already classified landmark, unique in some respect as geographically and historically identifiable with special cultural or physical significance. As for Lamu, it is a well-preserved example of Swahili culture and before the boda bodas, it was largely unspoiled. Speaking in Lamu town, the boda boda operators said the move to push them out is malicious. They said they will be denied employment and hundreds of them will be witho0ut work Chairperson of the Lamu Boda Boda Operators Welfare Association secretary general Mohamed Nassi said those pushing for their removal should also consider the benefits that come with the business. He said the livelihood of more than 200 boda boda operators should be considered first. They also want the county government to provide all of them with alternative employment. “It’s not right and they know it. Heritage is good but it doesn't put food on our tables or pay school fees for our children," Nassi said. He said crime has declined due to boda bodas "If we don't get other means of livelihood, we all know what idle and jobless minds can do," he warned. The operators said they were not consulted about efforts to remove them. Operator Daniel Aketch said the boda boda business has been of great help to residents and tourists who no longer have to travel on foot. They pleaded with the county to set up alternative routes for them instead Previous efforts to limit the operators to the outskirts of the town have failed. (Edited by V. Graham)