The Directorate of Criminal Investigations is investigating into the mysterious death of an elderly man in Athi River, Machakos county. The body of Paul Ndetei Ng'ang'a, 60, was retrieved from outside his house a few metres from Daystar University, Athi River campus, on September 22. Assistant county commissioner George Orina said the preliminary report indicates that the deceased might have fallen from his one-storey building house. Detectives from Athi River police station are investigating this theory to find out the circumstances of the senior's death. A detective told the Star that the theory that he fell from his balcony while drunk has yet to be proven. Orina said the man called his sons that night to inform them that his car was stuck kilometres from his house. He lived with his sons after apparently separating from his wife “The man called his sons after his car got stuck somewhere along the Kinanie-Daystar Road, the sons went to rescue him,” Orina said. The administrator spoke to the Star on the phone on Monday. Other sources have indicated that Ng'ang'a might have been drunk at the time. The man was coming from a local pub along Mombasa Road in Athi River where he had spent the better part of the night drinking, the Star was told. He was rescued by his sons at about 2am and was taken home on a boda boda. His car was abandoned at the scene and was moved home on Monday. Ng'ang'a was later found dead on his premises leading to the theory that he might have fallen from his balcony. The body was removed to Shalom Community Hospital mortuary in Athi River. Kenya’s Chief Pathologist Dr Johansen Oduor last Friday conducted a postmortem on the body, concluding that Ng'ang'a died after he fell from a high place. He suffered fractures to his neck and bruises on his face. Police say they are determined to establish circumstances surrounding his death. “The investigations are intense, we shall not leave any stone unturned until we establish the truth of circumstances that led to the man’s death,” he said. He said several people have recorded their statements with the police including the deceased’s sons, neighbours and some of the pub attendants where he allegedly had been drinking before his death. Edited by R.Wamochie