A 32-year-old man in Kabarnet has been sentenced to five years in prison for killing his own mother when he threw a stone. Nicholas Yator was convicted of manslaughter after he admitted to having accidentally killed his mother in 2017 while he was drunk. High Court judge Edward Muriithi said the punishment fits the crime. He said that the accused in his drunken state truly must not have intended to kill his mother and he is still grieving over her death. “He has to suffer the pain of killing his own mother by his own hand for the rest of his life; considering his youthful age of 32 years, the five-year term is suitable," Muriithi said. The prosecution told the court that Yator was on his way from a drinking spree at around 5pm when he passed near his brother’s home where there was a party on December 26, 2017. He saw a  woman named Jessica,  whom he claimed was misleading his wife into drinking alcohol. He confronted her and a fight ensued. “The said lady raised an alarm and several people from the function ran to the scene including Yator’s mother,” the court heard. Members of the public managed to separate the two and the accused went away. From a distance, he picked up a stone and without aiming threw it into the crowd. It struck his mother's chest and ruptured her heart. She collapsed. Members of the public tried unsuccessfully to resuscitate her. They took her to Kiptagich Health Centre where she was pronounced dead on arrival. The accused was arrested and taken to Kabarnet police station. Yator was first charged with murder, but the charge was reduced to manslaughter. He appealed for a noncustodial sentence. “In the state of confrontation, I picked a stone and he threw it in a general direction where the people were coming from. I did not intend to hit any particular person. I was confused and what happened was purely accidental,” Yator said. He didn't realise that the stone had struck anyone until several hours later after he sobered up. “The accused is remorseful for he did not know what he was doing. The victim is his own mother with whom he had no grudge at all. He says he was not in control of his faculties and regrets the incident,” his lawyer Kipnyekwei said. He did not intend to take the life of his mother and he says that he is also grieving and regrets the loss of his mother whom he loved unreservedly. Yator has three children, aged between six and 10 years. His wife is unemployed and he is the sole breadwinner. “A custodial sentence will deprive the young family the person who fends for them,” he said Yator’s family members and neighbours were opposed, however, and said he has a history of violence and cannot be controlled. The family said they had tried to correct Yator’s anti-social behaviours out of court but he has been unable to restrain himself. “His family members comprising siblings and the father is still bitter over the loss and are opposed to his release into the community at the moment. The local administration has similar sentiments that the accused is beyond the control of his immediate family and neighbours.  They feel that he should be away for some time as a means of rehabilitating him,” the probation report reads. (Edited by V. Graham)