Sarah Achieng’ is determined to join the growing list of Kenyan female boxing stars when she slugs it out in a title fight in Nairobi on November 2. The lady pugilist from the evergreen BoxGirls Kenya stable will take on Ruth Chisala of Malawi in a 10-round scheduled vacant Commonwealth Boxing Council (WBC) super lightweight title contest at the Charter Hall. While making the announcement yesterday, Kenya Professional Boxing Commission (KPBC) chairman, Reuben Ndolo said the event is one of the many major fight contests his new team is endeavouring to host locally. “The essence of title fights being held on Kenyan soil is to empower local pugilists over and above enhancing their fortunes in the world rankings. Going forward, you will see more Kenyan pro boxers fighting in Kenya and more young boxers rated in our national rankings. We will establish a database of boxers to ensure regular national and regional events,” said Ndolo. Ndolo, who is also a commissioner at the Commonwealth Boxing Council, said the event will be curtain-raised by an elimination International Boxing Federation (IBF)-Africa heavyweight fight, featuring Kenya’s Maurice Okola “Maketho” against a Ugandan, who will be named soon. “Standards have now been set and the sky is the limit. Not only will our boys and girls fight in title fights, they will also gain immensely from elimination fights as well as being ranked at continental and global level,” explained Ndolo. The Commonwealth title returns to Nairobi 16 years after former Kenya’s Michael ‘Lonzi’ Muta beat Tanzania’s Chaurembo Palasa at Safari Park in the then Kap-Soo Kim’s PalPal International Boxing Promotion. Achieng hopes to follow in the foot steps of Conjestina Achieng’ (not active) who won a world title; Fatuma Zarika who retained her World Boxing Council (WBC) title and Judy Waguthi who also clinched a WBC title. This will be Achieng’s major title after winning the national boxing belt against Evelyn Odero in 2015 and the vacant East & Central African Professional Boxing Federation female featherweight title when she defeated Hawa Daku of Uganda on majority points in 2011. Out of the 15 bouts she has fought since making her debut in pro boxing with a loss against Bena Kaloki, she has won seven through KOs and holds a 46.67 per cent KO advantage on her wins with two loses. “Achieng’ is an experienced boxer who learnt the trade the hard way. She is an astute student of the game and loves to toil in pursuit of success. We are all proud of her exploits and wish her all the best as she arrives at the big stage,” said Ndolo. 