Kenyans took to Twitter for the better part of Thursday to express their concerns over the state of employment. This came after betting firm SportPesa, sent home its more than 400 workers due to what it described as an unfavourable business environment. There has been a wave of job losses in the country in the past couple of months, raising concerns. In July, Telkom Kenya issued a notice to its staff, informing them of its plans to make 575 workers redundant following its merger with Airtel. The wave of job losses comes despite the Jubilee government's pledge to create more than one million jobs for the youth. During this year's Labour Day celebrations, Labour CS Ukur Yatani said the government intends to create one million jobs a year in the manufacturing sector, which will raise the GDP contribution from 8.5 per cent to 15. KOT used the 'save my job' and 'I lost my job' hashtags to express their frustrations over the state of unemployment. Janet Machuka said," This is just heartbreaking to a point where you fear you’ll be next. We’re paying taxes to fund unseen projects and get robbed of our jobs." Yvinnie Isaac tweeted that, "Sportpesa out. Betin Out. Choppies out. Coffee and Tea Sector Dead but our leaders continue to champion for Kieleweke and Tangatanga politics." "How many are saying I lost my job without hope of finding a new one? How many are screaming save my job knowing that jobs are hard to find in Kenya?" Nahashon Kimemia said. "Guys, are you willing to do anything beyond talking on #SaveMyJob and #ILostMyJob ?" Son of a Teacher asked. "I hope people do not forget all this come 2022. This country is in dire need of reform and that only begins by changing the way we vote. Listen. Judge. Deliberate. Do not just jump on the "popularity" wagon blindly," John said. Muthungu said," The greed to getting rich has made the youth jobless." "Are you working on the assumption that those who didn't vote for Jubilee still have their jobs? Because I voted for Aukot and here I am. Jobless. With a child and other dependents," Mogoi Ayienda said. Tito Seii commented, "We suffer but forget all this during elections. My prayer is, let all of us suffer terribly to a point where we are able to think outside our tribal cocoons."