Nairobi MCAs are set to debate the Punguza Mizigo Bill this week after the assembly justice and legal committee tables its report. Committee vice chair Moses Ogeto told the Star yesterday that they had held successful public participation forums with residents. “We collected the views of the city residents and by the look of things, the public is against the bill. In Karen, only one person is on record supporting the bill," Ogeto said. The forums were organised after the assembly suspended debate to allow residents to first give their opinions on the Bill. Acting speaker Chege Mwaura had given the committee powers to oversee the public participation exercise and table a report for the MCAs to debate. "We don't want to just reject or pass the Bill like some other counties. We want to hear what Nairobi residents have to say. As elected members and the people's representatives, we think it is prudent to get their input," he said. Mwaura said that once the report is ready, the house Business committee will schedule it for debate. The assembly is united on a push to reject the Bill. The Nasa affiliated MCAs led by minority leader Elias Otieno said that they will officially reject the Bill on the floor of the house. "Our party leader already rejected it so who are we to act on the contrary?" he said. Jubilee MCAs who had earlier been divided on whether to support or reject now seem ready to oppose the Bill. Majority leader Abdi Hassan Guyo said the Bill did not represent the people's interests. “How can a county like Nairobi with a population of more than three million people be equal to a county like Lamu?" he asked. The timeline for debating the Bill in at least 24 counties is set to expire on October 15. The County Assemblies Forum last month called for the suspension of debate on the Bill in all county assemblies to allow for public participation. CAF secretary general Kipkurui Chepkwony said they would meet on October 11 to take a common position on the Bill. City MCAs resume sittings on Tuesday after a one week recess they took to attend the County Assembly Sports Association games in Uasin Gishu county. The Bill has already been rejected by seven county assemblies and only was approved by Uasin Gishu.