Five company directors were on Thursday charged before Nyeri senior resident magistrate Faith Muguongo with tax evasion amounting to Sh85 million. Ivy Wangari, Joseph Ngacha, Mary Ngacha, George Kimani, Kevin Kimani, all directors of Jipsy Civil and Building Contractors Ltd, jointly and individually faced a total of nine counts of tax fraud. The charges relate to deliberate default on obligation to pay tax contrary to Section 97(e) as read with section 104 (1) of the Tax Procedures Act, 2015 and failure to submit tax returns contrary to Section 94 as read with Section 104(1) of the Tax Procedures Act, 2015. KRA from its investigations established that whereas withholding tax was being withheld and remitted on behalf of Jipsy Civil and Building Contractors Limited the by various national and county institutions for services rendered by the company, it was neither filing returns nor paying the requisite taxes. KRA also established that the company’s Income Tax and VAT returns for the financial years 2016, 2017 and 2018 have not been filed. The accused persons pleaded not guilty to all the charges and were each released on a bond of Sh3 million and an alternative bail of Sh2 million on the joint charges. Each accused was also ordered to deposit a bond of Sh200,000 and an alternative cash bail of Sh100,000 for the individual charges. The court set to mention the case on October 23. The Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA) has embarked on an aggressive tax compliance strategy to ensure all eligible taxpayers pay their fair share of taxes. KRA has implemented various initiatives targeting all Kenyans who fall in the taxpaying bracket to ensure they meet their tax obligations. KRA is committed to pursue those who fail to honour their tax obligations. Since the start of the crackdown on tax evaders, KRA has prosecuted 118 individuals with assessed revenue of Sh54.3 billion between July 1 and September 30. During the last financial year (2018-19), KRA recovered Sh8.53 billion from 222 tax evasion cases won. Sectors which have been found to be commonly used to evade taxes include betting,electronics importers, excisable goods manufacturers, steel and hardware manufacturers, county suppliers, high-end motor vehicle importers and construction sectors. Taxpayers are encouraged to pay their taxes in time and remain compliant with tax laws in order to avoid punitive enforcement measures including prosecution. KRA remains committed to building taxpayers trust through facilitation to foster compliance with Tax and Customs Legislation to continually improve service delivery and revenue collection. KRA also endeavours to make taxpaying experience better through provision of a courteous and professional service.