Kenya Defence Forces officers were on Monday celebrated for their hard work and sacrifices in a ceremony led by Defence CS Raychelle Omamo at the Lang'ata Barracks. Omamo emphasized on showing gratitude to the brave soldiers for the sacrifices  they make in order to fulfill their duties. Every year on October 14, Kenyans celebrate KDF Day to honour men and women who selflessly take up the task to protect the nation. She said civilians must affirm the soldiers' humanity and never forget to show gratitude. "The KDF is first a fighting force, second an institution and third a community, a family. They remind us that we must never stop loving, caring and remembering," the CS said. Omamo also thanked the Maroon Commandos  for their work well done. This year marks the eighth anniversary of the celebration and commemoration of the brave and gallant soldiers who paid the ultimate price in line of duty. Omamo unveiled a monument with inscribed names of fallen soldiers. The monument with symbolic soldiers' boots and hat commemorates sacrifices and success by KDF officers who died to make sure that the Kenyan citizens live protected by law and order. Apart from honouring fallen soldiers, the event is also meant to show support to families, widows, widowers of the soldiers as well as former soldiers  who are still battling injuries and trauma both physical and psychological from their operations. The theme of this year's anniversary is 'sustainable welfare for the KDF fraternity'. The need for proper physical, financial and mental  well being of the officers is the main agenda. According to KDF chief Samson Mwathethe,  the purpose of marking the day is to enlighten KDF personnel and families of the availability of welfare programmes that care for their well being. "Introduction of welfare centres and KDF compensation schemes, processing of compensation has fastened to 30 days," Mwathethe said. Post-traumatic Stress disorder (PTSD) is one of the major problems faced by the KDF officers. 'Combat stress' affects a lot of officers who fall into alcoholism as a way to deal with it. Kenyans continue to applaud the KDF officers for their sacrifices to make sure the Kenyan borders are well protected. KDF soldiers raised the Kenyan profile when  they defeated terror group al Shabaab when they captured port of Kismayu  in the operation Linda Nchi in 2012.