A state agency has called on experts reviewing ICT standards to create a proper climate to support local tech innovators. ICT Authority chief executive Katherine Getao told experts that the review and strengthening of the ICT standards should not stifle innovation among young people. Getao spoke on Tuesday as she closed a three-day workshop for ICT officials working at national and county government and various state agencies. The workshop held in Naivasha was aimed at finding ways on how to improve the country's ICT infrastructure. Reviewing the ICT Standards to protect public infrastructure and systems should be done in a manner that serves the interests of ordinary Kenyans, she said. “Standards  are very important because they help us understand the quality of goods and services that we should expect from our providers. “There is a need for ICT standards to guide the development of systems, applications, infrastructure and devices. Standards protect the public, facilitate harmonisation and integration of systems and set the pace for ICT implementation," she added. She asked the experts to have the ordinary citizen in mind as they develop frameworks to support their innovations. Many software developers are ordinary citizens who may not have resources to go through very expensive certification requirements hence must be supported, she said. From the workshop, it emerged that there was a need to register and license ICT professionals in the country as part of the strengthening of the standards. This is to be done in collaboration with training institutions and professional agencies. The proposal is part of the interventions that the government hopes will help address the surge in the cybersecurity lapses witnessed in the recent past. The reviewed ICT standards will also address the areas of ICT infrastructure, software development, electronic records and data management. With these standards in place, she said, the government will efficiently provide IT-enabled services and achieve value for investments in ICT and more secure government systems.