 Sixty-two out of 92 Kiambu MCAs have signed a motion to impeach Sports, Youth and ICT executive Karungo wa Thangwa. The ward representatives have accused the executive of incompetence, gross misconduct and abuse of office. The notice of motion was tabled at the county assembly on Wednesday by nominated MCA Margaret Njeri. It will be tabled for debate after seven days. Njeri accused Thangwa of failing to offer leadership in the implementation of budgeted programmes that target youths such as the Jijenge Fund, Kiambu Super Cup and Driving School Programme. She said the executive also failed to provide relevant information as demanded by the assembly's sports committee. The MCA said Thangwa authorised and oversaw the imprudent use of public resources in the launch of Kiambu Super Cup. “Thangwa promised the winning teams per ward Sh50,000 each which was not budgeted for. He further zero-rated the Jijenge Fund without house considerations thereby contradicting the Jijenge Fund Act,” Njeri said. Thangwa is also accused of illegally procurement the services of Rafiki Bank as a financial institution to disburse the fund. He is also alleged to have engaged in politics by displaying gross insubordination to acting governor James Nyoro to the detriment of the interests of the youth. Thangwa is a close ally of Governor Ferdinand Waititu who has been barred from accessing his office over a corruption case. In July, Thangwa was summoned by the assembly committee on youth and sports after being accused of ignoring the MCAs whenever called upon to answer to queries arising from his department. The queries included claims that Sh5,538,500 was spent on the Super Cup tournament to award teams and for transport logistics and training of coaches, referees and officials. The tournament was not completed with participants claiming they were not paid despite money being used. The MCAs said the department unnecessarily spent Sh1,915,500 in the launch of the tournament. Njeri said many youths were disappointed after staying at the tournament for the whole day without food. She said the youths were not reimbursed for their transport money as was promised. However, Thangwa defended the tournament, saying it was conducted with live media coverage and to acceptable standards. He said less money was spent as compared to other county government functions. Thangwa is said to be at loggerheads with Nyoro after pledging loyalty to Waititu. He is reported to have stated that he doesn't recognise Nyoro as the county boss. Nyoro has said he will name and shame county officers sabotaging reforms at the county government.  edited by peter obuya