 The Kenya National Union of Teachers has indefinitely suspended its yearly delegates’ forum amid leadership wrangles. The 62nd annual delegates conference was due to be held on December 24 in Kakamega. Knut secretary general Wilson Sossion on Thursday said the postponement was to allow the union iron out issued affecting its leadership. The Central Organisation of Trade Unions (COTU) has been roped in to help resolve the stalemate. Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli held a meeting with Knut officials at the teachers' union headquarters in Nairobi on Thursday. The suspension on the meeting comes at a time when disagreement and leadership feuds have caused chaotic scenes with police sometimes called in. The wrangles that have led to a back and forth among its leaders dramatically escalated in September with the suspension of Sossion. The suspension was lifted in the same month by a court. “It is practically impossible to have the annual delegates conference in December as requested by a section of our branch members," Sossion said on Thursday when announcing the postponement. Delegates were to seal Sossion's future at the meeting by either reaffirming their confidence in him or voting him out. Those against Sossion sought to use the meeting as a channel to try and get a vote of no confidence in him after surviving the September removal. “Any dispute that was there between us is gone, buried and forgotten and if there were any court cases, they will be withdrawn so we can continue working,” Sossion said. Union vice-chairman Collins Oyuu co-chaired the reconciliation meeting with Atwoli. He sat in for the union chair Wycliffe Omucheyi who was absent. Deputy secretary general Hesbon Otieno was also absent. It is the first public meeting the union’s top leadership had since the September fiasco. On Thursday, Sossion asked the Teachers Service Commission to lift the suspension on teachers after honouring the union's call to keep off a training exercise. The union also wants the TSC to stop running two payrolls. TSC adopted two pay registers in July after they lost a court case on the tools used to assess teachers and mode of promotion. The loss made members of the union lose benefits that come with the contested tools. “Knut is not at war with TSC, neither are we at war with the Education ministry and we assure them support as put in our constitution,” Sossion said. He called on the teachers' employer to respect members constitutional rights. Sossion asked TSC to reinstate the register for Knut members as it was in June to enable them to continue functioning. Edited by R.Wamochie