The Nyeri government has procured skip containers and litter bins to manage waste in the county. According to the county’s department of environment, the containers have been strategically placed in major towns to ease garbage collection. The litter bins are being set up in partnership with Awesome Concepts Limited. “The Nyeri government urges members of the public to throw their refuse inside the skip containers and bins to help keep the towns clean,” a post on the department’s official Facebook page read. A skip is a large container with an open top to help empty garbage on special garbage collection trucks. Nyeri town has been struggling with garbage disposal after the government rehabilitated the former dumpsite at Asian quarters and embarked on the construction of a Sh600 million transport terminus. The project, funded by the World Bank through the Kenya Urban Support Programme, was launched by Governor Mutahi Kahiga in June. It will take five years to complete. Residents near four dumpsites in Othaya, Karatina, Mweiga and Narumoru warned the government against dumping garbage from Nyeri town in their areas. Towns in the county are now littered with garbage. Recently, environmentalists expressed fears that water in rivers and tributaries in the town risk being polluted after the onset of short rains. Chania Water Resources Users Association members said garbage is everywhere in the town streets and estates. They said there is the possibility of an outbreak of waterborne diseases if action is not taken swiftly. Environment executive Fredrick Kinyua said Nyeri was doing all it can to come up with a solid waste management plan. He said the executive has requested the county assembly to allocate more funds to enable it to purchase machinery required. The CEC told the Star the county government intends to separate and recycle waste. "The county government of Nyeri is looking for sustainable ways of managing its garbage. For that to happen, we have to be a bit patient and responsible,” he said.