A lobby group has proposed that political parties with high numbers of nominated youth and women be entitled to more funding. This will act as an incentive for the parties to increase the participation and inclusion of both groups in politics. Two reports on inclusion and participation of women and youth in Parliament were launched by Mzalendo Kenya in Nairobi yesterday. They recommended 20 per cent of the political parties fund be distributed based on the elected number of special interest groups. Nakuru Senator Susan Kihika said the number of youths elected and nominated has reduced by 50 per cent and 13 per cent, respectively. "The number of youth and women in Parliament remains pretty low against a global comparison," she said. Kihika, however, faulted the youth and women for not actively seeking elective posts. She urged both groups to remain active in politics and register for political parties and not come into the scene six months prior to elections. The report also called for the retention of policies for nomination slots in Parliament and the development of a code of conduct with practical guidelines on how to fast-track women into office and within parties. Some of these guidelines include declaring representation areas for women only and the use of women-only party lists. Further, it recommended direct incentives for women and youth aspirants such as dedicated financing kitty in elections and lowering the nomination fees. "Young people lack the money, influence, and networks to effectively compete against older more established and better-resourced candidates," read the report. Political parties were also encouraged to develop progressive party internal mechanisms such as having a minimum of 33 per cent of aspirants and candidates in their strongholds being women. To curb violence against women who chose to vie for seats, the report urged the electoral body to come up with harsher penalties and strict action on those who perpetrate violence. Other recommendations include: applying internal rules to promote the nomination of youth MPs, enact legislation giving effect to Article 100 and restricting nominations under Article 97 to special interest groups.