Celebrated journalist Hussein Mohamed has called it a day at Citizen TV. Hussein, who used to read prime time news on Citizen TV every Tuesday and conduct high profile interviews has decided to take a break. He has been anchoring prime time news at the station for the past 10 years. Announcing his exit, he tweeted, "It has been a wonderful 10 years at Citizen TV. I have enjoyed & relished every moment I shared with my colleagues at RMS. I have decided to take a break after October In Sha Allah to concentrate on other matters. Loved the fans, the critics & everything in between. See you soon." His exit comes barely three years after his former co-host Janet Mbugua quit to pursue personal projects. Media personalities and fans of the anchor wished the journalist nothing but the best. Below are some of their messages. Collins Ogutu said, "All the best for the future Hussein. A great journalist who is more truthful than neutral!" Ali Manzu said, "Nakutakia na kukuombea kila la heri likuandame katika safari yako ndugu. Mungu akukunjulie njia zako." Bernard Chitunga wrote, "What a talent.. You will be missed Hussein. Keep exploring." Lindah Ogutu said, "All the best my friend." Mundir Abdirahman wrote "Hussein Mohamed, see you in a better place. Sincerely speaking, you revolutionized Mainstream media In Kenya. We will for sure miss you. Wish you success in your endeavours. God bless." Brayo Omosayansi said, "You've ever been my best broadcaster, will miss you. Every Tuesday Night I usually waited to see you there with such a welcoming advert.............. Live from Citizen TV this is Tuesday Night By Hussein Mohamed... All the best in your next move." Jacques Masea said, "You taught me a lot when I joined RMS, we made fun, we researched and prepared the Big Question show. I wish you well my brother." Anker Baker wrote, "Goodbye may you have joy and success in your future endeavours." Alfred Mwanzu said, "All the best Hussein. You've always been my favourite anchor on prime time news with your in-depth interviews. Good luck." Paula Mwalo wrote, "Boss I sure wish you well, and I hope you are making a money move..BBC, CNN maybe? All the best." Adawa Junior said, "Great journalist, we gonna miss you our screen Hussein all the best in your future." Brayo Omosayansi said, "You've ever been my best broadcaster, will miss you. Every Tuesday Night I usually waited to see you there with such welcoming advert.............. "Live from Citizen TV this is Tuesday Night By Hussein Mohammed"... All the best in your next move." Jacques Masea said, "You taught me a lot when I joined RMS, we made fun, we researched and prepared the Big Question show . I wish you well my brother."