Railway Golf Club’s Samuel Njoroge anticipates cut-throat competition from his adversaries when the Kenya Amateur Stroke-play Championship gets underway at the Par 72 Thika Greens Golf Resort course today. Njoroge, who is also the Amateur Stroke-play and Kenya Amateur Golf Championship (KAGC) champion, has cited Nyali’s Daniel Nduva and Great Rift Valley’s Simon Njogu as his main threat during the three-day show. “Being a Kenya strokeplay, I expect very stiff opposition from the likes of Nduva and Njogu who have been playing really well lately,” said Njoroge. Nduva has enjoyed top form with emphatic wins at the prestigious 2019 Uganda Amateur Open and the 2018 Kenya Amateur Match-Play Championship. Another player to watch is Muthaiga’s 16-year-old Taimur Malik (formerly of Windsor), who earlier in the month beat Golf Park’s William Odera at the fourth hole of a sudden-death play-off at the par 71 Kericho Golf Club to become the new 2029 Tea Fields Trophy golf champion. Jay Sandhu of Royal Nairobi is also among those expected to shine. During the play-off, both made pars on the first three holes while at the fourth hole, Odera sent his second shot to the water to hand over the title to the talented Malik, who is a member of the Junior Golf Foundation. Other top players expected for the event include Kiambu’s Mike Karanga and a host of juniors including Mutahi Kibugu. Notable absentee will be former Coast Open champion Matthew Wahome who has since joined paid ranks. Last year, Njoroge completed a four-round total of eight-over par 296 gross at the par 72 Sigona Golf Club course, to become the new Kenya Amateur Open Stroke play champion. Playing off plus one handicap, the then 23-year-old, Njoroge shot two-over-par 74 in the final round, to win six shots from the youngster Taimur then representing Windsor. Meanwhile, preparations for this year’s strokeplay are in top gear. Thika Greens captain Patrick Karanja is glad that with the current torrential rains, ‘the course is in lush green pristine conditions and playing long at the moment’. 