Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko has accused planners of the rot at City Hall leading to collapse of buildings. The governor said the Urban Planning department was to blame for poor buildings. Last month, the Kenya Institute of Planners blamed the county government for failing to provide building approvals for the past four months. They also accused the county of unnecessary delays in processing development applications, alleging political interference. On Tuesday, Sonko said 110 Kenyans have died and many other suffered injuries in 11 different tragedies involving collapsed buildings in Nairobi between June 2014 and September 30, 2019. He compared the figures to 21 deaths which occurred as a result of terrorist attacks during the same period. Sonko said the substandard buildings were approved by staff in the Planning department. The governor pointed at suspended Urban Planning Justus Kathenge chief officer who was in office when the alleged approvals were given. Kathenge who is a member of KIP and was a director in the Urban Planning department during Governor Evans Kidero's tenure. Governor Sonko said Kathenge was implicated by the Ombudsman's report in 2017, which reported that 52 people died in the Huruma tragedy due to failure to enforce compliance. He further pointed out that KIP members were responsible for more deaths than terrorists in a span of five years in Nairobi under the watch of chairman Lawrence Esho. “Maybe with this new information you will reconsider your position and move to discipline your errant members before their irresponsible actions cause more deaths of innocent Nairobi county residents,” Sonko said. In a petition dated September 30, KIP chairman Esho said political pressure on officials at City Hall's Planning department and interference with an electronic platform the county had transitioned to in processing of the development applications were to blame for inefficiency. “The attendant lack of capacity and inefficiencies in the plan approval and enforcement system leaves landowners with no alternative but to circumvent these critical processes, which in turn frustrates the quest for orderly and sustainable development with the city,” the petition says. Governor Sonko blamed the delays and operational downtime of the e-Permit and e-Construction systems on sabotage by the Planning department team. He accused the officers of switching off the system to revert to the manual system, which is prone to manipulation. “When I ordered a comprehensive audit of the system, your member Mr Kathenge and team switched it off again, lying to me that it is the World Bank that was responsible. I contacted the Bank, and even the company that hosts the system (Webmasters Limited), and contrary to assertions by Kathenge, they all confirmed that they had granted full control of the system to City Hall, and that they had nothing to do with the downtime,” Sonko said. KIP also raised its concern over the suspension of more than 10 officials from the Urban Planning department. But Sonko stated that none of the suspended officers played any role in development control. He further maintained that he would not relent in his efforts to cleanup the mess in the department and restore order in the building sector in Nairobi.