National Gun Owners Association (NGAO) of Kenya need Sh15m to upgrade the Kirigiti Shooting Range in Kiambu County if the country is to host the 2020 IDPA Africa Championships next October. NGAO- Kenya chairman, Anthony Wahome, said being appointed to host the International Defensive Pistol Association Africa Championships is a great honour for Kenya and his organisation doesn't wish to waste the opportunity. He appealed to the government, corporates and individuals to assist in funding the project. The facility needs to be upgraded to international standards to hold a competition of over 600 shooters in one tournament. Currently, the facility is an open range that can hold 14 Courses of Fire (CoF) and will have to be partitioned into (25) bays. Four bays, worth Sh300,000 each have already gotten sponsors including SEAgas Limited, Triple Tap Range and Zakhem Construction Limited among others. The association members have donated 900 used tyres yet the remodelling of Kirigiti Range requires 10,000 more. “Hosting the event is dependent on whether we (Kenya) will upgrade the range to the desirable international standards and most importantly be ready in time for the event. Our only concern is getting sufficient funds for the construction. “We have been to world-class ranges in Europe, the USA and in South Africa and we have consulted widely and we know what is required to put up a facility that measures up. At the moment, we are in constant consultation with the South African Defensive Pistol Association regarding the construction and we are on track,” noted Wahome, adding that all the groundwork has been done and earthmovers were deployed on the site early this week. NGAO- Kenya, a non-profit making organization, are also required to host a Tier Four IDPA March in February 2020 that would host at least 200 firers. In the last 60 years, 2020 will be the first time for IDPA Africa Championships to be staged outside South Africa. Kenyan shooters have been posting excellent results at the continental showpiece for almost a decade. The official also said they have already approached the ministries of sports and tourism, Magical Kenya and Tourism Board amongst others seeking funding. Wahome intimated that Kenya having an internationally-rated range will open up Kenya to more continental and world events and in turn contribute to the country’s tourism numbers.