Anyone attacking chiefs and assistant chiefs trying to stop illegal brewers risks being shot dead. That's the warning from Bomet county commissioner Geoffrey Omonding  delivered on Sunday during Mashujaa Day celebrations at Mogogosiek in Konoin. His remarks follow cases of the public protecting illicit brewers in Konoin and attacking chiefs and their assistants who try to close the illegal businesses. The administrators had raided a house where illicit liquor was suspected to be sold and encountered gunfire. Omoding said those found to have threatened to use an object — a rock, a panga or a gun —  will be shot at. He said it was wrong for the public to attack government officers going about their normal duties. "Attacking any of our officers is like fighting the president and you all know the consequences...those found will be shot because you cannot fight an officer who has a gun with a panga and expect to be left free," he added. Omoding also said that some public officers have been transferred for colluding with brewers to obstruct the fight against illicit liquor. He said they were reducing gains made in the fight against dangerous second-generation alcohol. Without naming them, Omoding disclosed that an officer commanding a station (OCS) and a senior judicial officer have both been lenient on those arrested by security officers and provincial administrators. Bomet has an alcoholism rate of 23 per cent, double the national average of 12 per cent. The rate is particularly high in Konoin subcounty. He also warned a contractor awarded the tender to put up an Sh8 million rehabilitation centre that he will be arrested for not completing work on time. "Our work is to supervise all government projects whether national or county and we have taken note of that project...They have been paid but there is no work to date and so next week we shall be arresting him because people want value for their work," he said. Governor Hillary Barchok said his administration will work with the national government to reduce alcoholism. He said his government was also committed to ensuring tall addicts are rehabilitated and engaged in community services. (Edited by V. Graham)   