Sarafina, a musical play of the Kenya National Theatre on Thursday set a four-day stage in Nakuru. The production set to start on Thursday evening and end on Sunday night is expected to raise already growing stakes in the filming industry in the expansive Rift Valley region. The re-enactment of the South African film to a stage play, whose actors are in their 20s, will be performed at Nakuru Players Theatre. Staged by Nairobi Performing Arts studio, the musical film will be converted to a stage play. In preparation for Thursday's production, actors stormed Kenyatta Avenue with a flash mob performance bringing business in Nakuru town to a standstill. Hundreds gathered on the street as a pre-production show went down for close to 30 minutes, creating awareness for the show. Dressed in their trademark black and white costume, the youthful artistes made their moves as they sang tunes from the famous Sarafina movie. Players Theatre committee secretary Eric Wanyama confirmed that preparations at the theatre to host the show have been completed and thousands of guests are expected to watch the production. “Currently, we are giving out advance tickets at Sh1,000 and tickets at the gate will go for Sh1,500,” he said. Film director Stuart Nash said actors have been performing in the national theatre in Nairobi for years "and now and it will be a privilege for them to perform outside Nairobi". He said there are multiple talented artists in the country but they lack exposure, leading to their early downfall. Nash praised Nakuru ss one of the best film destinations with talented and outgoing players. Nakuru Players Theatre Club was opened in the 1940s leading to the construction of the theatre on Garland Avenue that later became Kipchoge Avenue. The theatre was later opened to the public on July 25, 1958, after four years of strenuous efforts on the part of the members of the club to establish a reputable cultural centre to advance their artistic and entertainment needs. The original Sarafina was staged twice before; in 2003 and last year. The film stars a typical high school teenager growing up in Soweto, South Africa, under the apartheid regime.  She is passionate for liberation and dreams of a bright future. Since the exit of the legendary cinema halls including the Eros, Odeon and Embrace that defined arts in Nakuru in the past, theatre in local content is unearthing formerly global filming destinations. From hosting the Lake International Pan African Film Festivals (LIPAFF) to producing Ole Naibon the movie and the current staging of Sarafina’s rendition, the theatre industry is slowly claiming its place in the arts. Edited by R.Wamochie