The doctor who attended to Nyeri Governor Wahome Gakuru before his death in a horrific road crash did not appear before the public inquest on Monday. The inquest is enquiring into the circumstances leading to the governor's death from the Novmber 7, 2017, accident at Makenji area along the Kenol- Thika road The prosecution told the inquest that Dr Joseph Wanjohi was bonded to appear as he was the person who had signed the medical report but he delegated the duty to Maina Wachira. Wachira is in charge of the medical-legal department at Thika Level 5 Hospital. Senior assistant DPP Peter Mailanyi requested the inquest to summon Dr Wanjohi and the doctor who attended to the late governor so they can testify and produce medical documents. But Wachira told the inquest, "Dr Wanjohi is not in a position to give testimony as he only signed the documents while the late governor and those injured during the accident were attended to by Dr Loise Mathini who was an intern at the time.” Wanjohi was in charge of the casualty department. Wachira told the court that Mathini has since left the hospital and they have no information on her whereabouts. The court issued summonses for the two. Earlier, the eleventh witness, Denis Ireri, explained the damage to the vehicle in the accident. Ireri, an NTSA motor vehicle inspector, also presented the certificate of examination of the vehicle registration number GVN 019 A, a Mercedes-Benz sedan. “I did the inspection at Makuyu Police station on the same day at around 1200 hours. The accident occurred at about 0640 hours,” he told chief magistrate Wendy Kagendo. However, the inspector differed with a number of other witnessed when he said that all airbags were deployed. A number of witnesses had told the inquest that the airbag on the front left seat where the governor was seated did not inflate. The prosecution had asked him whether somebody could have inflated them afterwards. Ireri said it was not possible that someone inflated the airbags after impact. The point of impact, he said, was the front left side of the vehicle. “The vehicle came into contact with the guardrail and some concrete poles,” the inspector said. He said that from the way the vehicle was damaged, it was apparent the driver could have been driving at an excessive speed. “I may not be able to pinpoint the exact speed but basically it was excessive speed,” he said, estimating it at more than 120kmp. He said the car had no pre-accident defects. At the scene, Ireri said about two or three concrete poles that hold the guardrails were bent while more than five were flattened. Ireri said he did not see any skid marks on the road. Skid marks would serve as evidence that the driver had attempted to avoid crashing into the guardrail. This was after he was asked whether the driver made any attempt to avoid hitting the guardrail. “There were a number of people at the scene who might have messed with the skid marks. Maybe the investigation officers would be the best suited to describe how the scene looked lbecause they arrived there first immediately after the accident,” he said. Dhamana Africa lawyer Martha Waweru, who was also holding brief for the family, asked Ireri how he arrived at the conclusion that the airbag on the governor’s side was deployed while a photo taken at the scene showed otherwise. “Whenever an airbag deploys, it soon after deflates. It first comes off as a balloon and then afterwards it deflates although it remains at the point where it emanates from,” he explained. But asked whether the airbag on the driver’s side looked the same as that on the governor's side, the witness said he could not describe details but said that all the airbags deployed. Pressed further by Waweru, he said he could not deny that the airbag did not deflate. The inquest will continue on October 3. (Edited by V. Graham)