North Imenti MP Rahim Dawood and Kenya National Highways Authority have appealed to residents to demolish buildings on road reserves. Dawood asked Meru residents to support KeNHA's plan to construct a Sh4.8 billion dual carriageway of 13.6km. Speaking at Kinoru social hall in Meru town during a public participation forum, Dawood said some traders and landowners will be affected by the expansion of the road that connects Meru’s northern and southern bypasses. He said at least Sh200 million will be used to compensate about 640 plot owners who are on the road reserve. “We are engaging all the people likely to be affected by the dual carriageway. Its construction is expected to start by September next year. We will redesign the road and remove parking spaces along this road to have minimal compensation and demolition,” Dawood said. Dawood told affected people to get in touch with him for assistance on survey and compensation. The road will have bridges for pedestrians. Last week, KeNHA ordered people occupying road reserves along the dual carriageway to vacate. Upper Eastern regional manager Albert Semutwa warned occupants that there will be no negotiation with owners of structures on the reserve. Municipality MCA Elius Murega said the county government will incur costs for demolishing kiosks. Murega thanked MP Dawood for lobbying for the project, saying it would ease congestion in Meru town, improve businesses and help traders and other road users to reach markets. "As leaders we fully support the project and ask President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto to fund it. I call upon DP Ruto to honour his promise that the dual carriageway has been allocated money. It should not be a ghost project,” Murega said. The dual carriageway links the Sh2.9 western bypass of 8.8km and the eastern bypass of 12.6km at Gikumene, a distance of three kilometers from Meru town. The western bypass ends at Meru National Polytechnic where it connects with the planned dual carriageway while the eastern bypass ends at Kaaga Girls High School. Runji Consulting Group consultant Patrosiu Njeru said landowners must present genuine ownership documents. “The contractor should break ground by end of September 2020. We are conducting preliminary designs and after the ongoing stakeholder sensitization forums, we will work on detailed designs and tender documents,” he said.