Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi wants the government to end the crisis at the Lake Victoria South Water Works Development Agency in Kisumu. The parliamentary Public Accounts Committee chairman said the wrangles have disrupted operations. “I have learnt with astonishment that routine operations at the agency have virtually ground to a halt due to a leadership crisis,” Wandayi said in a statement. “Curiously, Water CS Simon Chelugui nullified this appointment and instead installed a George Odede, an outsider, to act as CEO against clear guidelines on such appointments from the Office of the President. Clearly, this is impunity,” Wandayi said. "I am not overly concerned about the names involved or the games of musical chairs being played around. My concern, as a key stakeholder, is that the very vital water projects that this agency was implementing have either stalled or are in the process of stalling due to the latest shenanigans.” But last month, Chelugui denied Odede was irregularly hired. The CS said he acted within the law when he appointed the former technical manager of Lake Victoria North Water Works Development Agency. Chelugui said the Water Act stipulates that a person who is an employee of a water services board can be deployed to another institution, as may be determined by the Cabinet secretary. Oronje was appointed acting CEO after the expiry of chief executive Petronilla Ogut’s term. Ogut was sent on terminal leave on July 1 to allow for the recruitment of a substantive replacement. Oronje was appointed by the board of directors chaired by Paul Bii a few months after being made acting technical manager. Chelugui said, “Those are two acting levels. In the previous level, he had not finished a year. So in terms of experience to handle the CEO’s position, he does not have adequate experience." "It is not only about papers. We must also look at the experience that comes with relation to the board, donors, ministry and all leadership levels. We are still supporting and mentoring such a staff member to grow and then be confirmed in the current position [technical] as the board will advise." Wandayi said the agency has a mandate over a fairly expansive region covering the entire former Nyanza province and South Rift. He said water falls under the social and economic rights bracket as provided for in the Constitution. “So, anyone tampering with the implementation of water projects is, in effect, violating the constitutional rights of the millions of people living in the aforementioned regions,” the lawmaker said. He said water is a key pillar in realising the Big Four agenda and urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to restore sanity in the Water ministry to ensure smooth operations at the lakeside agency. The lawmaker said he will rally his colleagues in Parliament from the affected regions to pile pressure on the government to end the standoff. “If the situation does not normalise within two weeks from today we will take action. No doubt, it will leave casualties, politically speaking, in its trail." Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya