Former radio presenter Angela Angwenyi is set to lose her house after it was put up for auction. Garam Auctioneers on Monday, through a newspaper advertisement, put up Angwenyi’s Jacaranda Gardens apartment for auction after she faced financial difficulties. “Our subject property is part of Jacaranda estate along Kamiti Road just after the Northern bypass.It neighbours the PCEA Kahwa Farmers School to the right.,” the advert read. The subject unit in question is identified as “B2-210” affixed on the door in Block B2 in Zone 2. It is a three bedroomed (master ensuite) unit on 1,453.14 sq ft. The mother plot measures approximately 8.013 hectares (19.80 acres). There are 840 units of five storeyed blocks of apartments with onsite improvements that include:- swimming pool, gymnasium, a shopping mall, business centre and kindergarten. The title is a leasehold interest for a term of 99 years yielding and paying an annual land rent and land rates of one fraction of eight hundred forty third. Main services are connected to the property. There is borehole and generator for common areas in the estate to supplement water supply and electricity The auction date was Tuesday and the price was Sh7.125 million. Angwenyi in 2015  ran into financial headwinds after she was embroiled in the National Youth Service scandal. A firm associated with her - Out of the Box Solutions Limited - won a Sh302 million consultancy contract to publicise tenders for women and the youth. Out of the Box Solutions Limited was awarded the contract to carry out a campaign to enhance access to the 30 per cent of government tenders reserved for women, the youth and people living with disabilities. The National Assembly’s Public Accounts Committee (PAC) stopped payments to the firm owned by Angwenyi  after they had been paid Sh90.7 million. She was unable to convince the PAC on how she won the contract. A court in Nairobi issued the bank freeze orders on Angwenyi's accounts  following an application by the Asset Recovery Agency (ARA).