A Facebook page using Kenya Airports Authority branding to advertise jobs is a HOAX. The Flight CARGO Facebook page uses the Kenya Airports Authority logo as its profile picture, and the ad for jobs has an image that appears to have been copied from the KAA website. The post contains list of positions with applicants required to send in their applications before September 30, 2019. Additionally, the post indicates that applicants should be aged 18–45 years old, and that the expected salary would range from Ksh 29,650 to Ksh 53,450. Applications would be made while asking applicants to a Gmail address. KAA has however disowned the Facebook page and the company behind it. Speaking to PesaCheck, the KAA Managing Director’s office stated that they do not directly employ cargo staff, and all cargo companies that work with KAA are listed on their website. Additionally, KAA confirmed that they have not worked with Flight Cargo Limited on any cargo operations. A Google search of Flight Cargo, the company behind the Facebook page where the ad was posted, shows that there is no such company under that name in Kenya. Additionally, the search revealed that an ad linked to the same entity had been shared on another Facebook page and on the Group Kenya website. However, the link to the website post has since been taken down. PesaCheck has looked into the authenticity of a Facebook page advertising jobs at a cargo company using the Kenya Airports Authority logo and finds it to be a HOAX. This post is part of an ongoing series of PesaCheck fact-checks examining content marked as potential misinformation on Facebook and other social media platforms. By partnering with Facebook and similar social media platforms, third-party fact-checking organisations like PesaCheck are helping to sort fact from fiction. We do this by giving the public deeper insight and context to posts they see in their social media feeds. Have you spotted what you think is fake news or false information on Facebook? Here’s how you can report. And, here’s more information on PesaCheck’s methodology for fact-checking questionable content. This fact-check was written by PesaCheck Researcher (Name of researcher), was edited by PesaCheck Deputy Editor Ann Ngengere and was approved for publication by PesaCheck Managing Editor Eric Mugendi.