Kenyatta University has directed students to report back for studies on October 21, 10 days after the institution was closed due to student unrest. The university was closed indefinitely on October 8 following two days of student riots that resulted in the destruction of property and disruption of lectures. The students were protesting the university administration’s refusal to extend the deadline for fee payment beyond October 9. In a memo to lecturers seen by the Star on Friday, the university management said the students should be back on Monday in readiness for classes the following day. “Alert all our students to report promptly on Monday 21 ready for lectures from Tuesday. All lecturers to be ready to resume also. Students to ensure they carry their IDs for identification at the gate,” the memo reads. It wasn’t clear whether the management had addressed the grievances raised by the students. A memo shared by Kenya University Students Association chairman Joshua Ayika on October 7 said the riots would continue until their concerns are fully addressed. They include calls for the resignation of Vice Chancellor Prof Paul Wainaina, allegedly due to poor leadership. During the protests on October 7, the university apologised to the public after the protests interfered with traffic flow on the busy Thika Superhighway. “The university management apologises to members of the public who were inconvenienced by the few unruly students who chose violence instead of engaging directly with the university administration through dialogue,” the VC said in a statement. The students had protested the VC's management accusing him of coming up with draconian rules that oppress the students and their parents. They cited graduation fee increment, compulsory use of a footbridge constructed within the university and fee payments. “We want Wainaina out because he cannot understand students’ issues. He is demanding that all students clear their fees in one month which is impossible. Some students like those taking Architecture pay about 150,000, where does he think that amount of money will come from within that time?” student president Joshua Ika asked on October 9. Edited by R.Wamochie