A minor has been admitted to an approved school following expulsion from three schools over 'corrupted morals' and allegations of lesbian behaviour. The admission follows several reports from the Children’s department, Probation office and the courts confirming that she has been in and out of school. Nearby institutions were reluctant to admit her for fear she could influence other pupils. The case was before Mpeketoni resident magistrate Pascal Nabwana who directed the minor be admitted to the Kirigiti Girls rehabilitation school in Kiambu. The documents were made public on Tuesday when admission was certain, though the ruling was made in September. Earlier, the headteacher of Mangu Primary School, Abdi Huko, informed the court the minor was violent and forced female students to engage in sexual acts with her. The court had issued earlier directions to admit the Class 5 pupil after she had been expelled from two other schools. “The school is unable to contain her. She has shown her true colours. She has become violent to fellow learners and insults any female learner who declines her sexual advances,” Huko told the court. A report by Maxwell Titima, the Children's coordinator in Lamu county, said the minor's mother is a small-scale farmer and casual labourer and he girl frequently runs away from home. Counselling was tried, to no avail, he said. A letter dated September 23 this year from the magistrate to the superintendent at Kirigiti Girls Rehabilitation says the minor should be admitted at the facility for three years. The Ministry of Labour and Social Protection confirming there was a vacancy at Kirigiti. Titima had informed the court that through home and school visits, he had concluded that the minor had developed "a queer sexual behaviour" of being attracted to other girls. He said she was suspected of engaging in child prostitution with older women to sustain herself. “The child’s truant behaviour has exposed her to the risk of contracting sexually transmitted infections, especially HIV, and she is at great risk of infecting other underage children as well as being trafficked for commercial exploitation,” he said. The report said that after her arrest, the child and her girlfriend ran away from home and eloped with schoolboys for about a week. (Edited by V. Graham)