The Building Bridges Initiative team has said it will hand over its report to President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga before October 23. Vice chairman Adams Oloo said he was certain the report will be ready in time, even as the team rushes to conclude work with only 14 days remaining. “Yes we shall beat the October 23 deadline,” Oloo told the Star yesterday. Since concluding public participation forums in all the 47 counties on August 9, the team has been writing its report at an undisclosed location. The report is expected to recommend policy, legislative and constitutional changes. It will also suggest institutions that need to be established or strengthened to address nine challenges facing the country. ODM Nominated Senator Judith Pareno said she was confident that the outcome of the BBI process will represent the wishes of Kenyans. “We should abide by what they will say since we know it will be for the interest of the nation. “They have gone round to hear from the people so whatever they will come up with will be the recommendations of the people,” she said. Pareno said she trusts the Senator Yusuf Haji-led team will do 'an awesome job'. “If Kenyans say no to a referendum and indicate that there is a better way to handle the issues facing the country, who are we to think otherwise? We will go with what the people want,” Pareno added. Soi MP Caleb Kositany said that it would be better to await the report before issuing any statements. “Let us wait for the report before I can say something even though they did not seek my views,” he said. Kositany said that Raila had given Kenyans the impression that the BBI will recommend constitutional changes. “We will see if what they will recommend will be good for the ordinary Kenyans,” he said. The 12-member team gazetted in May last year traversed all the 47 counties to collect opinions on the main challenges facing the country, among them electoral violence. ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna said the party will await the outcome of the report before making public its stance. Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria said BBI had no mandate to review the 2010 Constitution. “People are confused about the BBI. BBI is not Constitutional change. Constitutional change has well-demarcated lines,” Kuria said on K24’s Punchline show. Kuria wondered why ODM leader Raila Odinga was insisting that a referendum was inevitable and that Deputy President William Ruto is opposed to it. “We are patiently waiting for the baby to be born,” he said Earlier, Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka said proposals made by the team must be keenly looked into before being embraced. Raila's allies, on the other hand, have predicted that the task force will propose an expanded executive. The government spokesperson Cyrus Oguna has however cautioned against speculation on the outcome of the report.