As the football election fever continues to catch across the country Football Kenya Federation is set to hold its seventh Annual General Meeting at a Nairobi hotel today morning. The AGM comes against the backdrop of allegations that the federation’s current office was plotting to lock out sub-branches from taking part in the national and branch polls a matter that was taken before the Sports Dispute Tribunal and was dismissed yesterday. Nyamira sub-branch chairman Jared Nyauma had sued Football Kenya Federation on behalf of the FKF Sub Branches on the matter of FKF Electoral Code 2019 which excludes the FKF Sub Branches from participating in the forthcoming FKF elections. “We heard the application from the petitioner and found no merit and henceforth dismissed it,” said SDT chairman John Ohaga. This was a victory for the federation ahead of today’s AGM as a potential hurdle had been taken out of their way. Today’s meeting will bring together FKF national officials led by president Nick Mwendwa as well as delegates drawn from all over the country. Among issues that will likely be on the agenda is election date and the ruling by CAS that ordered FKF to pay former coach Adel Amrouche Sh108 million for wrongful dismissal. The federation, meanwhile, is set to conduct a five-day FIFA Member Association (MA) referees course between October 7 and October 12 in Machakos. The course is part of Football Kenya Federation’s policy of ongoing training for referees to ensure that standards not only continue to improve but the Laws of the Game also apply in the same way across the board. “This course will entail fitness tests, new techniques, and modules as well as amendments to the rules of the game,” said FKF Referees Committee Chairman Joseph Andere. “As a Federation, we are committed to improving officiating standards and creating capacity with the sole aim of comprehensively developing the game at a minimal cost to the beneficiaries,” he added. The course is set to be conducted by FIFA Instructors Ali Ahmed (Technical) and Houssein Ali (Fitness), with FIFA Referees Development Officer Jerome K Damon also set to be in attendance. 35 referees, from the FIFA panel as well as from the top tier Kenyan Premier League, will be in attendance.