Garissa leaders have cautioned politicians against opposing recommendations by the Building Bridges Initiative taskforce even before they are made public. The BBI team has concluded its work and will soon hand over its report to President Uhuru Kenyatta and former PM Raila Odinga. There have been claims the taskforce has recommended a change of governance structure from a presidential to a parliamentary system. This prompted an uproar from a section of Mt Kenya leaders who promised to shoot down the proposals. They said the region is underrepresented and a parliamentary system would work to their disadvantage. They prefer a presidential system, which advocates one man/woman one vote. But Garissa leaders, led by Governor Ali Korane, on Sunday told those opposed to the BBI to hold their horses and wait for the content to be made public. They threw their weight behind the BBI. The leaders spoke in Balambala constituency. "We might not know what is contained in the report that has yet to be made public, but one thing that is for sure is that it is aimed at addressing the myriad of issues that we are facing as a country — both socioeconomic and political," Korane said. "As residents of Garissa, we gave our views and we have a lot of faith that they were captured. The fact that our very own senator was co-chairing it makes us even trust the committee work further because he is a respected elder who means good for our country." County assembly Majority leader Mohamed Gabow regretted the views already taken by Central Kenya leaders. He urged them to soften their stance. "It is unfortunate that our brothers from Central Kenya always seem to have a problem with our region. If it is about the census, boundary review, or resource allocation, they are always mentioning our region. Let them give us a break for once. We are not anybody’s guest in this country,” Gabow said. Galbet MCA Abdirizack Ismail accused Elgeyo-Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen of disrespecting residents. He told him to resign as leader of the Majority in the Senate so he can focus on 2022 election campaigns. On Saturday, National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale told off MPs from Central over their hardline on a parliamentary system of governance, saying they do not have a monopoly over the country's leadership. He posted the comment on his Facebook page. (Edited by F'Orieny)