City residents have been urged to report fraudsters and conmen asking for money to secure them business stalls in various markets within the county. City Hall has warned that the imposters target traders seeking space in the New Wakulima, Westlands, Karandini, Mwariro, Kariokor and City Park markets. Any persons who have fallen prey to the fraudsters have been advised to report their grievances to the nearest police station, the Director of Criminal Investigations or the county offices for necessary legal action. The county has requested that the public should report related issues to the phone number 0722886600. The New Wakulima market is part of the dualling of Outering Road project currently being done by the Kenya Urban Roads Authority. The Sh800 million market is located in Mowlem ward, Embakasi West subcounty. Once complete, it will accommodate over 4,000 traders and will help de-congest county markets and increase access to quality, affordable and sustainable food. Last week, Kura director general Silas Kinoti said that the construction of the market is at 99 per cent complete, only awaiting water and power connection. However, this is not the first time that the public is being conned with promises of market stalls. In October last year, the county assembly trade committee chairman Charles Thuo raised concerns of similar acts of fraud. Thuo said he had visited the New Wakulima Market and found residents camping at the entrance, claiming they had paid in order to be allocated there. Since then, only contractors or other permitted persons have access to the market. Thuo said before any allocation of space, a joint market committee will be set up to deal with the matter. “The committee will come up with a list of traders who will be allocated, establish the mechanism by which traders will be selected and how the markets will be operated,” he said. Nairobi currently has 20 open-air and 23 large markets, which are not enough for the huge population. Governor Sonko’s administration has put under construction Westlands, Karandini and Mwariro markets. Once complete, the markets will offer residents better places to sell and buy products and ease congestion in the existing ones.