Kenya Methodist University has rejected claims that it denies some students the opportunity to graduate and tries to extort money from them. Their court statement was in response to a petition by 17 students who allegedly did not find their names on the list of graduands. They pursued Bachelor of Arts and Education on the  Mombasa campus. University counsel William Buketi told the Mombasa High Court on Tuesday that the 17 were among students who graduated on October 12. According to their petition, the students said the university infringed their rights. Through counsel Marlon Kinango, the learners denied graduating and requested the court to allow their petition to be heard and determined. Kinango further requested the university to prove that the students graduated as the administration alleged. Buketi said the university had told him on Tuesday morning that the petitioners were among the grandaunts and the petition had been overtaken by events. The students alleged that the institution introduced four new units five days to the ceremony, which they termed as malicious and a way of extorting money from them. They want the court to have their names included to the list of grandaunts to be issued with certificates. Kinango requested leave to amend the petition and enjoin 11 other students. “The university will collect approximately Sh13 million from the students for them to pursue the four units which were not part of their coursework,” he said. Justice Erick Ogola directed Kinango to include the 11 students within seven days and ordered the university to respond before the case is heard on November 19. “There were some reasons why some students did not graduate and we cannot add everyone in the list. Let those who feel their rights were infringed be enjoined in the petition,” Ogola said. It is alleged that the whole class of 51 students was affected by the varsity's directive. Some of them had allegedly already invited their families for the ceremony only to miss their names from the list when they went to collect gowns. Edited by R.Wamochie