Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro has sought an assurance from ODM that it will uphold peace in future general elections. He said it was despicable that McDonald Mariga, the Jubilee candidate in Kibra, had his convoy attacked and some vehicles pelted with stones. "We also saw them threaten to hold demonstrations against the IEBC claiming there are plans to rig the election,” the MP said. ODM leaders had accused Jubilee of stage-managing the attack to blame on their candidate, Imran Okoth, so Mariga can attract sympathy votes. But Nyoro questioned why the Orange party has panicked, yet it claimed Kibra was its bedroom. He said the party thought the Jubilee was not strong enough for the poll. He spoke at the Christian Fellowship Church in Murang'a town. The stakes in the Kibra poll changed when President Uhuru Kenyatta met Mariga and showed his support for him, he said. "Now that there is every likelihood that the Jubilee Party will win the seat. ODM has started issuing threats and engaging in theatrics. The lawmaker urged ODM to avoid chaos as a show of respect to the handshake between its leader Raila Odinga and Uhuru. "We want an assurance from the party, especially from its leader, that we can have an election in Kenya in which they participate and no chaos is witnessed." Kibra residents should be allowed to vote for their favourite candidate; their choice should be respected, he added. Nyoro also supported Jubilee Party secretary-general Raphael Tuju’s sentiments that the party has no preferred candidate for any seat. He said any politician would be lying to himself to think he will have any seat reserved for him. Deputy President William Ruto has declared his interest in the 2022 presidential race on the Jubilee ticket. "Ruto is not the unopposed Jubilee candidate. He is ready for any opposition," Nyoro said. Tigania East MP Josphat Kabeabea also attended the service. He urged the government to merge the proposed referendum with the 2022 general election. "Why not put two separate ballots in the elections so the two votes can be cast simultaneously?" he asked. Kabeabea said conducting the two exercises separately will cost Kenyans a fortune and overburden the economy. Kenyans have had to shoulder the costs of the population census, Huduma Namba registration and the Building Bridges Initiative, which have used billions of money, he said. He, however, acknowledged that the Constitution should be reviewed. He said Kenya's main problem is postelection chaos after every five years and urged that it be tackled first. "The solution is for political competitors to accept poll results." (Edited by F'Orieny)