Samburu North residents have called upon the government to adopt various security measures to restore peace and sanity among residents. Speaking during a peace meeting that attracted people from different communities and government officials at Baragoi town, residents said the government's failure to get rid of illegal guns from civilians is the major cause of insecurity. Others said failure to apprehend suspected rustlers and recover stolen livestock is another cause of increased insecurity. “Only half of the livestock stolen in raids are recovered, where are the rest? Suspected rustlers are also not arrested and this is what is fuelling rustling among our communities, we cannot find peace if we continue this way,” resident Elim Lomarngat said. According to locals, visiting herders from neighbouring counties are a threat to peace and security. “Herders from neighbouring counties are not supposed to graze in this area without seeking permission from leaders. Village elders, administrators and chiefs are supposed to be informed that there are visitors who are asking for permission to graze within various villages, wards or locations,” Tabio Leaken said. They said residents have been coexisting peacefully until herders from neighbouring counties invaded the region and the scramble for pasture began. “We were living in peace before herders from Marsabit invaded this region, they came grazing like they are owners of property in this county,” Lomarngat said. Local leaders have also been asked to be on the forefront to restore peace. “Many people are now educated, with time we shall find peace, as elders and village councils we will ensure no stolen livestock or a thief will be hidden in our villages,” he said. The government has pledged to everything possible to pursue and arrest suspects as well as recover stolen livestock. Recently, Rift Valley regional coordinator George Natembeya, when he visited Samburu, urged pastoralists holding illegal firearms to voluntarily surrender them to the authorities or face the forceful government mop-up. He said the mop-up exercise will also target senior civil servants and politicians known to arm herders who look after their cattle. Natembeya said cattle rustling in Samburu and other pastoral counties is fueled by bandit-friendly chiefs. Addressing chiefs in Maralal town on September 18, the RC noted that chiefs in Samburu always apply the 'see no evil hear no evil' approach while dealing with cases of cattle rustling. Natembeya threatened to sack such chiefs insisting that they must be on the forefront in the fight against cattle rustling since they know their residents. Edited by R.Wamochie