Murdered tycoon Tob Cohen’s widow Sarah Wairimu says she has nothing to wear after she was barred from her Kitusuru home. Wairimu said she is spending a lot of money on clothes and has been relying on relatives and friends as all her personal belongings are in the house. She has asked the court to order the release of her car and belongings. Wairimu said it is expensive to move around without her car. She has been using taxis or borrowing friends' vehicles. Justice Stella Mutuku was told that the vehicle is registered in Wairimu's name. Her lawyer Philip Murgor asked the court to order the release of her personal items, including jewellery. He also asked to visit the scene with Wairimu and police to take an inventory of the items. But state counsel Catherine Mwaniki said the house is a crime scene. She said the car is an exhibit as it was used by Cohen before his murder. Mwaniki said Wairimu should give a list of all the items she wants so they can check whether there is an exhibit among them. Justice Mutuku directed Murgor to file a formal application listing the items Wairimu needs. The case will be mentioned on November 5, when the court will make a ruling on other issues raised by the parties on contempt. Meanwhile, Wairimu has accused lawyer Donald Kipkorir of being a ‘slay queen’ attorney. She says Kipkorir, who represents the DCI in the contempt suit, engages in disputes and debates on social media, particularly on Twitter. This has lowered his standing and undermined as well as brought into disrepute the legal professional in the eyes of right-thinking citizens, she says. The embattled widow believes that Kipkorir's conduct amounts to professional misconduct. She has further accused him of cyber harassment, as defined in Section 27 of the Computer Misuse and Cybercrimes Act. Wairimu says she believes that Kipkorir has acted unethically by publicly, through social media and without being officially retained, commenting on the case. “On September 17 after successfully having an irregularly pre-selected and conflicted government pathologist disqualified from conducting the postmortem on the body of my late husband, Kipkorir, in violation of the court order, posted online about the incident,” reads her affidavit. It is alleged that he tweeted “Though High Court stopped both prosecution and defense teams from conducting investigations through media. Defence Team is on all TV station conducting autopsy! Defence Team can’t choose the Government pathologist never heard of Defense being part of Investigation#CohenMurder” She says the timing of the tweets showed a well-coordinated and choreographed scheme by the DCI to defeat the terms of the court order dated September 16. Wairimu also claims that on October 23 the lawyer said he had a long-term friendship with Kinoti. She says he tweeted a photo of his visit to the DCI, with a caption to the effect that George Kinoti is making corrupt thieves and murderers panic, in violation of the court order. “I believe that it is not a coincidence that Kipkorir is now purporting to represent the DCI, who he boasts of being a long-time friend and client. It is self-evident that all the times Kipkorir was and has been acting in coordination and concern with the state to violate the order,” Wairimu says. Kipkorir on Wednesday opposed the affidavit, arguing it was filed unprocedurally and should be expunged. He argued that he was served with the supplementary affidavit in the morning and Murgor's email was full of insults. “He can't file new evidence without the leave of this court, therefore, the supplementary affidavit ought not to be in the record,” Kipkorir said. Mwaniki said they were served on Tuesday and realised there were new issues and persons mentioned in the new affidavit. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya