The beheaded body of a police officer — famously called the Lone Ranger for his anti-drugs operations — stance has been found in a forest in Lamu East. The mutilation of Hesbon Okemwa Anunda was considered a warning from drug lords to police. Police sources said his death could have been payback for his battle against drugs in the subcounty worst affected by narcotics at the Coast. Anunda, in his 20s, had been nicknamed The Lone Ranger due to his courage and skill in dealing with drug dealers — and the fact that he was the only officer “The Lone Ranger would pursue cases some of us wouldn’t. He would go on an operation alone and succeed. He was that good,” an officer said in confidence. Anunda was reported missing on October 2. He had been attached to Tchundwah police station, A multiagency operation led by county police commander Muchangi Kioi found the dismembered body inside a mangrove forest on Saturday at6pm following a tipoff from the public. The head and left hand of the officer had been chopped off while the rest of the body had deep panga cuts. The officer’s G3 rifle, loaded with 60 rounds of ammunition, has not been recovered and police are searching for it. County commissioner Irungu Machariasaid the body was recovered about 100 metres from the Kizingitini-Mbwajumwali Road, about400 metres into the forest. Macharia said they suspect the officer who was in his mid-20s was murdered elsewhere and his body dumped in the forest since the scene appeared undisturbed. “We found his body after members of the public volunteered information ... It horrible what happened to him, very inhumane,” Macharia said. He said the police had recovered the officer’s mobile phones and were tracing his call logs to find out whom he had spoken to in the hours before his death. An operation to recover the rifle is underway and Macharia said it would be relentless. “We want to find the killers who did this and we also want the gun. We shall leave no stone unturned. Such things should not happen in any society."  The body has been taken to the Mpeketoni Hospital mortuary. Okemwa, who comes from Kisii county, had just worked in Lamu for two years. Reports indicate he left behind a widow and one child. Police boss Kioi asked the public to volunteer information that will lead to the arrest of the killers. “This is unacceptable and evil. This officer protects lives yet they took his. The culprits must face the wrath of the law,” he said. The body was found shortly after the security department led by Macharia held meetings in Tchundwa, Mbwajumwali and Kizingitini. They met leaders to discuss the harsh treatment and beatings of residents since the operation to recover the missing officer was launched five days ago. The leaders included Lamu East MP Athman Sharif, Lamu Woman Representative Ruweida Obbo, chiefs, headmen and community representatives. Edited by R.Wamochie