Kisumu leaders and residents have demanded repair of the Mamboleo- Muhoroni road that links Kisumu, Nandi and neighbouring counties. Muhoroni MP Onyango Koyoo and Kajulu MCA Roy Samo on Thursday said the road is impassable. They said the road is in pathetic condition despite the government saying it had allocated money for its construction. The road has massive potholes, making motorists incur huge losses in repairing their vehicles. Samo said the road needs to be urgently tarmacked as it affects the region’s businesses, schools and services at public health facilities. The 36km C674 road formerly C34 was built in 1997 under retired President Daniel Moi’s regime. Last year, President Uhuru Kenyatta during a tour of Kisumu and Siaya counties announced the tender for construction of the road had been awarded. Samo questioned where the money allegedly allocated for the construction by the national government went. “We feel seriously disillusioned by the national and county governments. The tear and wear on this road are so massive that we can’t take it anymore,” he said. He told the government to explain why the road, which is crucial for the region’s economic growth, had been abandoned. The road provides a shorter route to those going to Nairobi. “Its dilapidated state has killed businesses between Luo and Nandi communities that used to thrive many years ago,” Samo said. He blamed the poor state of the road on retired President Mwai Kibaki and Uhuru regimes. On the road, the Guba bridge is about to collapse, putting lives of residents and motorists at risk, Samo said. “Residents have been forced to repair a section of the bridge to enable them access.” Samo urged Governor Anyang Nyong’o to honour the Sh27 million that he promised to avail for the refurbishing the road as they wait for its reconstruction. The MCA questioned the whereabouts of the Sh34million that had been allocated by the county government in the 2016-17 financial year for re-carpeting the road. Muhoroni MP Koyoo said Uhuru promised that the road would be constructed. “He reaffirmed to us in two functions but we are still waiting for works to be commissioned,” he said. Koyoo had said the road will be tarmacked this year. He said the government had allocated money for tarmacking. He said three major projects (Mamboleo-Muhoroni road, Koru-Soin dam and revival of Chemelil, Muhoroni and Miwani sugar factories) were given consideration by the President.