They might be also-rans on the continental front but Gor Mahia continue to prove that they are the top dog domestically. Yesterday they hit top spot in the Kenyan Premier League after brushing aside hosts Nzoia united  2-0 at the Mumias Complex. K'Ogalo had gone into yesterday's match seeking to erase the ghosts of their  6-1 elimination from the CAF Champions League by USM Alger on Sunday and duly did what they had to. Skipper Kenneth Muguna led from the front and headed in the opener in the 11th minute after Nzoia failed to clear a cross from Wellington Ochieng. The goal gave the defending champions an opportunity to assert their dominance against a Nzoia side that looked hampered by the slippery pitch following the afternoon showers. Midway through the first half Clifton Miheso made the game 2- 0 in favour of Steven Polack's men as his sweetly struck free-kick curled past the wall and beyond the despairing dive of the Nzoai shot-stopper Humphrey Katasi . Miheso who had been restored to the starting line up alongside Francis Afiriye replacing Nicholas Kipkirui and Dickson Ambundo was menacing down the right of the attack and could have doubled his tally but fizzed a shot wide. Nzoia were struggling to get a grip on the match and introduced Sammy  Ndungu and Kevin  Juma in place of Robert  Lokwang and Anthony Njeru at the start of the second period. Ten minutes later they were given a route back into the game when Maurice Ojwang handled the ball in the box but Collins   Wakhungu struck his effort onto the crossbar. Gor also reshuffled their pack with the tiring Lawrence Juma being replaced by Bernard Ondiek with Nzoia completing their three changes when Batts Awita came on for Boris  Kwezi. Ondiek could have scored with his first touch but side-footed the ball wide off the post when he was picked out by Tobias Otieno. Soon after Afiriye who had a forgettable afternoon was replaced by Nicholas Kipkirui for the final twenty minutes. The former Zoo man, who seems to have lost his confidence in front of goal struggled to impose himself onto the match as Gor held on to register their third successive league win and move to the top of the standing with nine points. Nzoia dropped a place to 13th due to an inferior goal difference. They have four points from as many matches. Meanwhile, Bandari, who returned to the country on Tuesday after sealing a place in the last 32 of the Confederation Cup will be back in league action this afternoon when they take on Posta Rangers. Bernard Mwalala’s side have emerged as the biggest threat to Gor Mahia's monopoly of the top-flight league. Unbeaten in their opening three matches of the campaign to bag seven points, Bandari will hope to jump as high as first in the table should they manage to get past Posta. The mailmen themselves will be keen to return to winning ways after they tasted their first defeat of the campaign at the hands of Western Stima last time out. 