Nyamira Governor John Nyagarama has formed a task force to look into the fate Early Child Development Education instructors whose contracts expired. The county assembly had them absorbed into permanent and pensionable terms despite the expiration of their terms. The seven-member task force to be chaired by Education executive Gladys Momanyi is tasked with carrying out a physical headcount of all ECDE caregivers to ascertain their appointment letters and terms of contract. It should also unearth the number of ECDE centres and streams in public primary schools in the county and further analyse and reconcile all academic and professional certificates, TSC registration and KNEC verification reports. Nyagarama directed the team to develop a staffing and supervision framework at ECDE centres, ward and subcounty levels and establish implementation parameters of County Assembly Resolutions in consultation with county assembly Education committee and Public Service Board. The formation of the team comes barely a week after assembly speaker Moffat Teya communicated House instructions touching on the reinstatement of 502 ECDE instructors whose contracts had expired. In a letter dated September 24 and addressed to the governor, Teya says, “As long as the ECDE teachers have not been reinstated, vetting of nine nominees for the position of Chief Officers stands suspended." The letter also said signatures would be collected and verified for Nyagarama's impeachment for failure to solve the issue. Team chairperson Momanyi says no immediate framework on the reinstatement of the affected ECDE instructors into the system could be done. “Any other salient matter touching on the instructors or related to ECDE service delivery will be amicably handled by the task force,” Momanyi said. The task force will present their findings to Nyagarama in a week, she added. Public Service chairman Peter Keriri said all interested candidates for the position of ECDE instructors will be given the attention and opportunity without favour or bias. “It is the mandate of the Public Service Board to help the day’s government in the hiring process of the required human resources. Once a contract of an employee has ended, they are supposed to apply afresh upon us floating the employment request as demanded by the line department,” Keriri, who is among the task force members, said. Other members include Bernard Osumo (Public Service Management CEC), his acting Chief Officer Thomas Nyariki, Peter Muga (Finance and Planning CEC) and Engineer Mecha Josephat (acting Education Chief Officer). Others are Internal Audit Director Mwencha Billy and ECDE Director Rachael Okongo. Assistant Administration directors Jackson Oluoch and his governor’s office counterparty Thomas Ogoti form part of the secretariat. Edited by R.Wamochie