Kenya is expected to benefit from a new ­Sh2.5 billion fund to increase HIV self-testing. The $25million (Sh2.5 billion) was announced by the Children’s Investment Fund Foundation (CIFF) last week at the just-ended Global Fund replenishment summit in France. The new fund will support countries in the Sub-Saharan Africa region and Kenya is eligible to apply. Kenya has already authorised two self-testing kits, but each costs at least Sh500 for a single-use, which is considered out of reach of many people. CIFF said it would help lower the cost of self-tests, trial alternative distribution channels and fund education and promotional activities. “This contribution is CIFF’s latest milestone in its broader effort to increase young people’s access to healthcare services,” it said in a statement. Paulyne Chemeli, a Nairobi pharmacist said self-testing is best for improving the uptake of HIV testing among individuals who require confidentiality or who do not trust healthcare workers. “Thanks to HIV self-testing, we now have more male clients and we encourage them to take at least two self-testing kits, including one for their partner,” she said. CFF said the Sh2.5 billion fund will also support country programmes that have ambitious HIV self-testing goals and put supportive policies in place for people to easily access self-tests. “CIFF is championing HIV self-testing and other methods to promote self-care as one of the most powerful ways for youth, women and men to take control of their sexual & reproductive health,” said Miles Kemplay, executive director for adolescence at CIFF. While the approved kits in Kenya are highly accurate, a recent study showed cheaper, bogus kits are slowly creeping into the market. Researchers designed a mystery shopper exercise involving 55 private sector providers in Nairobi and Mombasa. Shoppers aged between 16 and 24 were recruited. They received a two-day training before going to a pharmacy or clinic to buy a self-testing kit. The shoppers found that some private facilities tried to sell them unregistered kits. Such kits were hawked cheaply at Sh150 apiece instead of the Sh500 recommended for the genuine kits. "Providers tried to influence the choice of testing kit, for instance promoting a non-quality-assured kit, stating that it was cheaper [Sh150] and gave faster results than the quality-assured self-test," shows the survey conducted by local health NGO PSI. The bogus kits were likely imported from South Africa and China. (edited by O. Owino)