@alalmaurice MAURICE ALAL/Muhoroni MP Onyango Koyoo has threatened Agro-Chemical and Food Company with legal action if it fails to address pollution concerns raised by residents. He said the company’s management should follow environmental laws. Residents have accused the company of poor waste disposal and discharge of raw industrial effluent directly into River Nyando. The river is the source of water for thousands of residents and livestock in Muhoroni and Nyando subcounties. “We are putting them on notice to stop polluting the rivers and environment. I will not allow my constituents to be subjected to suffering during my tenure,” Koyoo said. The legislator said residents have lost lives and animals due to the spread of waterborne diseases as a result of pollution from the company. But company managing director Ashok Agrawal denied the pollution claims. He said they have complied with all environmental laws. “When Nema board of management visited the company, we showed them how we’re managing our waste. We treat our waste well. Nobody is discharging raw effluent into rivers,” he said on the phone yesterday. Koyoo demanded that the company update him with how it disposes of  waste and future plans to permanently stop pollution. The MP called on Environment CS Keriako Tobiko to probe the allegations. Residents said the firm had violated environmental laws. They said the disposal of waste into the river made its waters unfit for domestic use. Koyoo also renewed his demand for fair and inclusive employment, saying the company should hire youth. On recruitment, MD Ashok said they observe fairness and inclusivity when hiring to promote national integration and cohesion. In February 2019, Koyoo wrote to the company after residents complained of a lack of involvement in the firm’s operations. “I have taken note of the docket of employment, procurement and tender allocations where residents, both skilled and unskilled, are denied opportunities,” the MP said. The lawmaker claimed job opportunities were being dished out to relatives and friends of top managers. Most of those hired are from outside the county, he alleged. He demanded that the company update his office on all employment vacancies so that residents can benefit. The MP also wants his office informed on all procurement and tender opportunities, including those for youths, women, and persons with disabilities. “Provide a list of activities and services your company plans to undertake both in kind and in cash to benefit the local community under corporate social responsibility within this financial period,” the letter says. In April 2019, youths stormed the company alleging skewed hiring and tender awards. Led by David Juma, the youths claimed the company’s management was awarding tenders and hiring people only from their backyards. Company’s financial officer Edwin Owiti and engineering manager George Obura had a rough time calming down the angry youths. Owiti asked the youths to forward their companies for the qualification of tenders. He denied the company has neglected locals in employment, saying 80 per cent of employees were from the area. 