Defending champions Gor Mahia’s perfect start to the campaign continued unabated as they pipped Zoo Kericho 1-0 at the Afraha Stadium to reclaim the top spot they had relinquished on Saturday to arch-rivals AFC Leopards. Boniface Omondi struck 10 minutes to time to condemn Zoo to a third loss. Gor now have 12 points from four matches. Leopards are joint-second with 10 points having been given three points at the expense of cash-strapped Sony Sugar, who failed to honour their home fixture at Awendo on Saturday. Meanwhile, Sofapaka coach Divaldo Alves has hailed his team’s never-say die attitude that helped them inflict a first defeat on fellow title challengers Bandari yesterday. Brian Nyakan struck in stoppage time to earn Batoto Ba Mungu a precious 2-1 victory over the dockers. “I am happy the way my players kept their focus and kept on going to the very end,” said Alves. “We had to bid our time when Bandari were on top and dominating us. We coped with them well and stayed in the game and when our opportunity came we took it well and I think we deserved the win.” Peter Lwasso had given the 2009 champions a dream start as he gave his side a third-minute lead that they held onto until the break. Bandari, however, showed all their fighting spirit and hit back ten minutes after the break through Ugandan William Wadri before Nyakan won it late. The win improved Sofapaka’s point tally to 7 as they moved up to tenth in the standings. Bandari meanwhile fell down to sixth with eight points. Elsewhere, former champions Tusker also continued their good nick of form as they outwitted hosts Kakamega Homeboyz to claim a 3-1 win at the Bukhungu Stadium. George Ogutu scored his first goal for the brewers with additional strikes coming from lanky David Majak and Luke Namanda. The win pushed Tuskers point tally to 10 from five matches in third. KCB also with 10 points after a gritty 1-0 win over Nzoia United, are fourth with Western Stima who battled to a goalless draw against Ulinzi Stars fifth with eight points.