National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi has accused the US  of rejecting a bid to declare al Shabaab a terrorist group. Muturi said the decision by Americans emboldens the group to the extent of making them be considered for financial assistance by foreign organizations. “I have in my mind the recent decision by the United States to refuse to declare al Shabaab a terrorist group. This will ensure the group becomes a recipient of financing even by taxpayers, ” Muturi said on Monday. “The glorified terrorist groups like the al Shabaab in Somalia enjoy protection by some super powers through civil society groups in the guise of human rights activists. This trend is unfortunate and has the potential of watering down all the gains made in the fight against terrorist groupings.” The assertion was however immediately discounted by US ambassador Kyle McCarter who clarified that his government has never failed to declare and categorise as terrorists the Somalia-based group. MCcarter said the US supported United Nations resolution No. 751 which declared al Shabaab a terrorist group. “We have instead supported, and have over many years, UN declaration No. 751 declaring al Shabaab are terrorists. There are no questions here. United States has declared al Shabaab terrorists and we will use everything within that resolution to degrade them, ” said McCarter. The leaders spoke during the official opening of a parliamentary intelligence and security conference in Nairobi. The US envoy however said America was not comfortable with Kenya’s request to cut off all humanitarian support to Somalia. “This is an issue that needs to be made very clear today. The request from Kenya was resolution 1267 which included in it the removal of humanitarian care for Somalia,” McCarter said. The parliamentary intelligence and security conference provides awareness and collaboration among parliamentarians around the world and security experts to defeat terrorism and other major national security threats. The US envoy committed to a working relationship with Kenya to help the country and East Africa defeat terrorist groupings. “We are committed to ending al Shabaab threats in Kenya and East Africa,” he said. Muturi called for a shift in combating terror, saying the groupings have invented new approaches which include using social media to reach out to more individuals, creating larger networks and sharing information with ease and in real time.