All eyes are now on the Senate as it decides on whether the country’s debt ceiling could rise to Sh9 trillion. The government has admitted that it cannot finance this year’s Sh3.02 trillion budget and it is hoping that the Senate will allow the debt ceiling to rise by Sh3 trillion. The National Treasury has consequently pleaded with the Senate to pass the new Public Finance Management Regulations saying it urgently needs to borrow money to cover a Sh635 billion budget deficit. The National Assembly has already approved the proposal but Senators must pass the PFM regulations as well. If the Senate rejects the regulations, it will mean that the decision by the National Assembly to approve them would be ineffectual. Even so, experts have warned that the country’s debt level has risen to dangerous levels. This clearly manifested itself when the Cabinet suspended the Sh300 billion Mombasa-Nairobi road project for at least two years to allow the country’s debt levels to drop. With the government having accumulated Sh6.09 trillion in public debt already, it means that it has overshot the limit of Sh5.8 trillion. Kenya’s total loans reached Sh6 trillion in August after the country borrowed Sh200 billion more in two months. National Treasury acting Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yatani, however, said the Senate’s refusal to approve the amendment means government operations could grind to a halt. He told the Committee on Delegated Legislation and the Committee on Finance and Budget last Wednesday that he government is currently unable to disburse funds for development projects because of this limitation. He named ongoing health, electricity and infrastructure projects that will be affected immediately. But it is not automatic that the Senate will approve the regulations to allow the government to borrow more. The joint committee chair, West Pokot Senator Samuel Poghisio, said they will consider the pleas made by Yatani as they write their report. Nonetheless, Yatani’s proposals could be headed for tough times during debate given indications some senators are giving. Machakos Senator Boniface Kabaka said Yatani was unconvincing and that his vote will be based on the CS’s presentation before the joint committee. Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jnr on his part said Yatani did not succeed in persuading him to allow the cap for state borrowing to rise. “I expected better persuasive arguments from the CS on why the government should be allowed to borrow more,” he said. He added that the CS cannot ask senators to let him borrow Sh3 trillion more “just like that”. Bungoma Senator Moses Wetangula said borrowing should be shared fairly between the current and future generations. “You should not punish the future generation when borrowing. The current generation should also feel the pinch,” he added. Senators also said the CS should have also told them the minimum amount of money he hopes to be allowed to borrow. “The CS should have given us his irreducible minimum,” Kericho Senator Aaron Cheruiyot said. There has been an outcry over the sharp increase in government borrowing since President Uhuru Kenyatta came to power in 2013. Standing at Sh5.8 trillion, the country’s debt is about 300 per cent more than the Sh1.89 trillion Uhuru inherited from President Mwai Kibaki’s administration. The figure, according to the majority of Kenyans, is unacceptable as it heavily burdens future generations.