The Kenya Medical Supplies Authority has resumed drugs supply to city health facilities. Drugs worth Sh66,927,266 were supplied last week. The supplies were halted after counties defaulted on payment to the parastatal.  The counties owed Kemsa more than Sh2.2 billion as per August this year. Nairobi led with Sh284 million (the debt has since risen to Sh351,206,933) followed by Kilifi at Sh138 million, Kitui and Narok at Sh104 million. Only Isiolo, Machakos and Turkana counties were not indebted to the supplier. Kemsa CEO Jonah Manjari on Monday said that they and the county government had reached an agreement on debt repayment programme. "Last week we did Sh66 million worth medical supplies and a commitment to clear the debt has been shared and agreed upon,” Manjari said. The Council of Governors complains that Kemsa supplies only 60 per cent of what they order in most cases. Their communications director Elkana Jacob said the debt will be factored in a supplementary budget. “We have agreed with Kemsa that the county will be paying as we order. But for the debt, we shall be paying after it is factored in the supplementary budget. For the recent supply, we are only waiting for their invoices. Money is ready," he said. He said the money will automatically be reflected in their account after the invoices are received. "The governor is very keen on matters health,” he added. The distribution of the drugs started at Kayole Health Centre. The facilities listed for the new drugs supplies include Mama Lucy, Pumwani Maternity, Mbagathi and Mutuini. In 2017, Kemsa stopped supplying medicine to Nairobi hospitals over a Sh285 million debt, forcing patients to buy drugs and other medical supplies from private hospitals and chemists. It took the intervention of President Uhuru Kenyatta and Health Cabinet Secretary Sicily Kariuki for Kemsa to resume supplies to the county last year. Governor Mike Sonko has in the meantime sternly warned county hospital administrators and health officials against diversion of drugs. “Matters health must be observed with keenness and anyone caught diverting county drugs either for personal use or for sale will face the full force of the law,” he said. Sonko assured residents that all the county health facilities will be supplied with medicine within a week. He advised the public to reject referrals to private hospitals or clinics close to county facilities. "Some doctors have private clinics to which they refer patients even when not necessary. In most cases, they divert the county drugs to their private clinics denying residents much-needed drugs," he said. He asked anybody harassed, threatened or mishandled at any health facility to report with evidence using WhatsApp to telephone numbers +254 722 88 66 00/+254 722 156 700