Heavy rains are expected to pound many parts of the country, the Kenya Meteorological Department has said. The department in an advisory issued on Thursday said the intensity of rains expected will be 20mm. “High rainfall intensity is expected over the North Eastern, central and coastal regions,” the department said in an forecast effective until Monday. The rains, the department said, will be accompanied by strong winds. Areas likely to be pounded by heavy rains in highland west of the Rift Valley include Kakamega, Vihiga, Nandi, Elgeyo Marakwet, West Pokot, Trans Nzoia, Bungoma, Bomet, Uasin Gishu, Kisii, Kericho and  Nyamira. In the Lake Victoria basin, Kisumu, Siaya, Migori, Homa Bay and Busia will receive high rainfall. The department said counties in central Rift Valley such as Nakuru, Narok, Laikipia and Baringo will receive high rainfall as well. Counties in the highland east of the Rift Valley such as Nyeri, Murang’a, Embu, Meru, Tharaka Nithi, Kirinyaga, Kiambu, Nyandarua and Nairobi area are also set to receive high rainfall. Mombasa, Kilifi, Kwale, Tana River and Lamu counties will get heavy rain. Counties in North Eastern part of the country such as Wajir, Garissa and Mandera are also set to receive high rains. In South Eastern, Machakos, Makueni and Taita Taveta will receive high rains. In the North western part of the country, Western parts of Turkana, Northern parts of Marsabit and Samburu are also set to be pounded by heavy rains. “Residents in all the mentioned areas are advised to be on the lookout for potential flash floods,” the department said. The department said floodwaters may suddenly appear even in places where it has not rained and can be deeper and faster than they look. The department advised residents in such areas against diving through or walking in moving water of open fields. They are also urged not to shelter under trees or near grilled windows to minimize exposure to lightning strikes. “People in landslide-prone areas should be high alert,” the report said. The department said the heavy rains and moderate to strong winds may result in storm surges along the Coast. Fishermen and those in the maritime industry have been urged to be on high alert. Early in the week, the department said that short rains will be timely and well distributed across the country except in North Western Kenya. The weatherman says the rains will bring an abundance of crops in most parts of the country, especially the Western and Central regions. "Foliage and pasture conditions in the pastoral areas of Northern, North Western and parts of North Eastern Kenya are expected to improve." The enhanced rainfall in Western Kenya may, however, lead to flooding and lightning in Kisii and Kakamega. The major river catchment areas for the country’s hydroelectric power generating dams - the Seven-Forks and Turkwel hydroelectric power generation dams - will be well supplied. The expected enhanced rainfall may trigger mudslides/landslides in parts of Rift Valley, Western and Central Kenya (upper parts of Murang’a). Slippery roads and poor visibility during rainstorms may also pose dangers to motorists and pedestrians, especially along the Kikuyu-Kinungi stretch on the Nakuru—Nairobi highway.